Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmaCL USE ONLY
LA. 2qi/7_ 3r
L,u'. 2448-&g
Report No. P-3838-BR
A-                               REPORT AND RECOMfEND&TION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
lNTEWRATIONAL BA&W FCR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME
TO MME
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US55. 5 MLLION
TO THE
STATE (7 SAO PAULO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF IME
FEDERATIVE REPJBLIC OF BRAZIL
ANqD A PROPOSED LON
IN AN AMOUNT EQuIvALENT TO US$2.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIE REPUBLIC (7 BRAZIL
FOR A
SECCND HEALTH PROJECT
(SAO PAULO BASIC WEALTH CARE
AND NATIONAL HEALTH POLICY STUDIES)
May 31, 1984
This documet bm a aestsicted disrutidu ad may be used by recipints uuy in the performnce of
their ofidl duties Its contenQt my not odhwise be discosed widtht Wodd  R  _



CURREENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1983                                 May 16, 1984
Currency Unit  Cruzeiro (Cr$)                                 b.
US$l  Cr$577.05                           US1 - CrS 1513.00
Cr$1   US$0.0017                           Cr$l - US$S0006609
FISCAL YEAR
(Federal, State and Municipal Governments and INAMPS)
January 1 - December 31
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report for
project cost and financing estimates (US$1lCr$1,265)
corresponds to the average cruzeiro exchange rate
for March, 1984.
i



FOt OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
BANESPA - Banco do Estado de Sao Paulo -
Sao Paulo State Bank
UZDES    - Banco Nacional de Desenvolviaento Economico e Social -
National Economic and Social Development Bank
CIPLAN   - Comissao Interministerial de Pla&ejamento e Coordenacao -
Interuainsterial Commission for Planning and Coordination (for
Health)
CIS      - Comissao Interinstitucional da Saude -
Inter-Institutional Health Commission
CNRE     - Centro Nacional de Recursos HuianoO -
National Human Resources Center of the federal Secretariat of
Planning
CONASP   - Conselho Consultivo da Aduinistragao da Saude Previdenciaria -
Consultative Council on the Administration of Health Insurance
FUNDES   - Sao Paulo State Health Fund
NRC      - Human Resources Center (of SES)
INAIPS   - Instituto Nacional de Assisteucia Medica da Prevideucia Social -
National Social Security Institute for Medical Assistance
IPEA     - Instituto de Planejamento Economico e Social -
Econosic and Social Planning Institute
MOR      - Ministerio da Saude -
Ministry of Health
HPAS     - Ministerio da Previdencia e Assistencia Social -
Ministry of Social Insurance and Assistance
PMU      - Project Management Unit (Sao Paulo)
SES      - Secretaria Estadual da Saude (Sao Paulo) -
State Secretariat of Health (Sao Paulo)
SHS      - Secretaria de Higiene e Saude -
Secretariat of Hygiene and Health (of the Municipality of
Sao Paulo)
UBS      - Unidade Basica de Saude
Basic Health Unit
Th8 dcument ha a resncted ditbutin and may be usd by ripients only in the performance
of theLi official duuIts hacontents may not otherwise be dibcked without World Bank authorization.



BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
(Sao Paulo Basic Health Care
and
National Health Policy Studies)
Loans and Project Summary
Borrowers:      The State of Sao Paulo, with the guarantee of the Federative
Republic of Brazil, for the basic health care sub-project, and
the Federative Republic of Brazil, for the national health
policy studies sub-project.
Amount:         US$55.5 million, including capitalized front-end fee, for the
Sao Paulo basic health care sub-project and US$2.0 million,
including capitalized fron-end fee, for the national health
policy studies sub-project.
Terms:          Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest
at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Beneficiaries:  The State of Sao Paulo and several municipalities in the Sao
Paulo metropolitan area for the Sao Paulo basic health care
project, and the Federal Ministry of Health, for the national
health policy studies sub-project.
Project         Tne proposed project's principal goals would be (a) to help
Description:  improve the health status of the low-income population of
Greater Sao Paulo, and (b) to help formulate medium-term
objectives and plans for the entire health sector. The project
consists of two sub-projects, each supported by a separate
loan. The Sao Paulo basic health care sub-project would help
introduce a basic health care delivery model that would: (i)
emphasize prevention of illness, as well as health and nutrition
education, while providing low-cost curative care which would
cover about 90% of the health needs of an average community;
(ii) provide services through a network of grassroots-level
basic health units supported by community hospitals; (iii)
support the introduction of an effective referral system and
improved health service payment procedures; and (iv) promote the
rational use of medical personnel through appropriate employment
of paramedical staff and well-remunerated full-time physicians.
It is intended that the model developed and lessons learned
under this project would be replicated elsewhere in the state
and in Brazil. The national health policy studies sub-project
would support a program of studies designed to help the federal
Government formulate and implement medium-term objectives and
plans for the entire health sector.
Risks:          The risks associated with the project, especially the Sao Paulo
basic health care sub-project, are in the area of management and
political support. Project managers will require a great
insight, energy and skill to carry out t-r changes in health
services delivery and financing that will be needed in the face
of bureaucratic inertia. These risks would be kept in check by:



- ii -
the strong political commitment consistently demonstrated by the
various levels in the federal, state, and uunicipal governments;
careful selection of the key project managers; the inclusion of
management consultants; the incorporation into project planning
and implementation of INAMPS, which has a stroag comditent to
reform and a short but impressive record of success elsewhere _n
Brazil; and the phasing of project implementation in llne with
expected management capabilities.
Estimated Costs:                                   --US$ Milisoi
Local    Foreign      Total
A. National Policy Studies Sub-Project              1.9         0.1         2.0
B. Sao Paulo Basic Health Care Sub-Project
Institutional Development
Technical Assistance                            0.9         0.2         1.1
Sub-project-related Studies                     1.6          -         1.6
Sub-project Management                          2.2         0.3        2.5
Sub-total                       4.7          0.5        5.2
Manpower Development
Local Training Programs                         2.8         0.7         3.5
Overseas Training                                -          0.2        0.2
Equipment                                       0.1          -         0.1
Sub-total                       2.9          0.9        3.8
Health Facilities
Basic Health Units (civil works)               23.7         2.6        26.3
Hospitals (civil works) /a                     27.5         5.7        33.2
Equipment and Vehicles                         15.5        10.5        26.0
Incremental Operating Costs
(Facilities and Equipment)                    2.1         0.2        2.3
Architectural and Management Fees               5.8          -          5.8
Sub-total                       74.6        19.0       93.6
Baseline Cost _b                             82.2        20.4       102.6
Physical Contingencies                          8.9         1.7        10.6
Price Contingencies                             6.5         1.8        8.3
Sub-total                       15.4         3.5       18.9
Sub-Total - Sao Paulo Sub-Project Cost /c   97.6         23.9      121.5
C.  Total Project Cost /c                          99.5        24.0       123.5
Front-end Fee                                   -           0.1         0.1
Total Financing Required                     99.5        24.1       123.6
/a  Includes purchase of hospital in Maua and expenditures for construction of
Itaquera hospital after January 1, 1983.
/b March 1984 price levels.
/c Including local taxes equivalent to about US$11.0 million.



- ili -
US$ Million
Financing Plasi:                     Local     Foreign      Total      z
- State of Sao Paulo la          39.6        -          39.6      32
- Municipality of Sao Paulo /a  26.5         -          26.5      22
- TBRD /b                        33.4       24.1        57.5      47
Total                 99.5        24.1      123.6      100
Estimated Disbursements:            --------      SS Million
Bank FY                   85       86      87      88       89
A. Sao Paulo Basic Health
Care Sub-Project
Annual:                    6.6    15.3    16.5    12.4      4.7
Cumnlative:               6.6    21.9    38.4    50.8    55.5
B.  National Health Policy
Studies Sub-Project
Annual:                   0.4      0.8     0.7     0.1      -
Cumulative:               0.4      1.2     1.9     2.0     -
Rate of Return:                      n. a.
Staff Appraisal Report:              No. 4447a-BR of May 30, 1984.
/a  Sao Paulo basic health care sub-projcct only.
/b US$55.5 million for the Sao Paulo basic health care sub-project and
US$ 2.0 million for the national health policy studies sub-project.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$55.5 MILLION
TO THE STATE OF SAO PAULO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
AND A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$2.0 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
(SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE AND
NATIONAL HEALTH POLICY STUDIES) 1/
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on two proposed
loans to help finance a second health project: (a) a loan to the State of
Sao Paulo with the Guarantee of the Federative Republic of Brazil for the
equivalent of US$55.5 million, including front-end fee, to help finance a
basic health care sub-project; and (b) a loan to the Federative Republic of
Brazil for the equivalent of US$2.0 million, including front-end fee, to
help finance a national health policy studies sub-project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 2,
2.        An economic report entitled  Economic Memorandum on Brazil'
(Report No. 4674-BR, dated August 22, 1983) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on August 22, 1983. The following paragraphs
snmmarize and complement the findings of that report.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Joao Figueiredo,
completes its six-year term in March 1985. Its main economic priorities
have included the growth of agriculture, the expansion of manufactured
exports and reduced dependence on iipiorted oil, and at the same time an
improvement in the situation and prospects of the most economically
disadvantaged people and regions, especially in the Northeast. The prime
political concern has been the return to a fully democratic system of
Government. The most recent major step in this direction was the general
election held in November 1982 for all state governors and executive
officials and for the federal legislature, including deputies and
senators. Election of the next president is scheduled January 1985.
1/  The project presented in this report, initially named Sao Paulo Basic
Health Care Project, was renamed Second Health Project as the two main
sub-projects are now treated under separate loans, as shown above.
2/  Parts I and II of this report are similar to the corresponding
sections of the President's Report for the Urban Basic Education
Project in North and Center-West (Report No. P-3784-BR dated April 24,
1984). They are identical to the corresponding sections of the
President's Report for the Federal Highways Sector Project (Report
No. P-3835-BR dated May 30, 1984), being distributed at about the same
time as this report.



- 2 -
4.        Much of the Government's attention, since 1980, has had to be
diverted from longer-term political and economic change because of
thestabilization problems confronting Brazil. Success in tackling
inflation and a difficult short-term balance-of-payments situation is
crucial to its prospects for a return to satisfactory rates of grcwth, and
for improvingincome distribution and regional balance. In spite of the
economic recession and consequent political pressures, substantial progress
has been made towards the structural changes needed for Brazil's next stage
of development.
Recent Economic Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11% annual growth in GDP in the
years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a significant
liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further substantial
growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual average rate
of 72, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the large increases
in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international recession, and the
sharp deterioration in the tVrms of trade, successive Brazilian governments
sought to maintain output and employment growth through policies
characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for industrial and
agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import barriers;
investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for imported oil; the
expansion of state enterprise; and heavy foreign borrowing. Between 1975
and 1980, Brazil's external debt more than doubled from US$28.4 billion to
US$66.2 billion.
6.        The efforts to redress the external imbalance after 1974, when
the trade deficit increased to US$4.7 billion, created strong internal
pressures and increased inflation. The economy remained vulnerable to
external shocks, and when further increases in oil prices occurred in 1979
and 1980, and interest rates increased, the current account deficit more
than doubled to reach US$12.4 billion and reserves fell to US$5 billion.
Domestic inflation accelerated to 110%.
7.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline of 1.9% in GDP in 1981. The rate of credit expansion
was severely curtailed, commercial bank interest rate controls were
removed, and monetary correction and the exchange rate were brought back
into line with inflation. Industrial output declined by 5.4% as demand for
capital goods and consumer durables contracted. The restoration of export
tax incentives contributed, however, to a 26% growth in manufactured
exports, and a higher transactions tax on imports accelerated their
decline, with nominal imports falling by 15%. The trade balance improved
from a negative US$2.8 billion in both 1979 and 1980 to a positive US$1.2
billion in 1981, but there was an increase of US$3 billion, to US$9.2
billion, in net interest payments abroad. Domestic inflation fell, but
only to 95%. The combination of strong policy measures and the
balance-of-payments improvement sustained confidence among the banks
lending to Brazil, and no problems were experienced in raising the US$10
billion in net lending required for the balance of payments during 1981.



- 3 -
8.        External events over which Brazil had no inf; ence created
exceptionally severe pressures on the economy in 1982. Declining world
commodity prices and economic problems among countries which had been the
growth markets for Brazil's manufactured exports resulted in exports 13%
lower in 1982, in dollar terms, than in 1981. War in the South Atlantic
and, later, the Mexican liquidity crisis, led to a reduction in lending by
the international financial community to Brazil, which was compelled to
increase its short-term borrowing and draw down reserves. Net interest
payments rose to US$11.4 billion and the current account deficit to a
record US$14.8 billion, equivalent to 73X of commodity export earnings. In
late 1982 the loss of its reserves, the reluctance of foreign banks to roll
over existing loans or extend further credits, and bleak international
market prospects led Brazil to seek assistance from the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) in support of a further adjustment program.
9.        In February 1983 the IMF pledged 'inancial assistance of the
order of US$5.4 billion in compensatory financing and through the Extended
Fund Facility, for the years 1983-85. Associated with this were commercial
bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the rescheduling
of US$4.6 billion in medium- and long-term loans due in 1983, the
maintenance of US$9.4 billion in short-term commercial credits and the
restoration to US$7.5 billion of the deposits held by foreign banks in
overseas branches of Brazilian banks. These 'Phase I' funds were disbursed
in 1983, except that the level of interbank credits to Brazil reached only
US$6.0 billion rather than the US$7.5 billion pledged.
10.       This operation proceeded in the context of stabilization measures
whose primary objective was the reduction of the current account deficit
and external borrowing requirements, with a trade surplus target of US$6
billion in 1983. The cruzeiro was devalued by 302 in February 1983 and
subsequently adjusted in line with domestic inflation, implying some
further real devaluation as world prices rose. Import restrictions were
further tightened. Imports fell by 21% in 1983, reflecting both the import
restrictions and reduced domestic demand conditions. Exports increased by
8.5Z to US$21.9 billion, in spite of adverse trading circumstances, and a
trade surplus of almost US$6.5 billion was achieved. The current account
deficit was reduced to US$6.2 billion.
11.       The domestic financial targets for 1983 originally agreed with
the IMF were not met, but an amended program agreed later in the year was
substantially achieved. There was a partial deindexation of wages;
monetary correction was again made equal to the full inflation for the
previous month, after having lagged behind it from July to November;
additional fiscal measures were taken to increase revenues and reduce
expenditures; steps were taken to eliminate a number of subsidies; relative
prizes for fuel products and wheat were raised and other admi"istered
prices brought into line with the inflation rate; negative real interest
rates for most agricultural and export credits were eliminated; and
monetary policy was tightened to limit increases in the monetary base to an
agreed 90%. The revised public sector borrowing target (18.6% of GDP) and
operational deficit target (2.7% of GDP) were both met, the latter falling
from 6.0% of GDP in 1982.



12.       The short-run cost to the economy of these adjustments was high.
Inflation reached 211% in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by shortages in the
supply of tradable goods, increases in administe_ed prices, and very high
real interest rates, and the devaluations referred to in para. 10 above.
Preliminary official estimates show a decline in GDP of 3.3Z in 1983,
concentrated in the industrial and commercial sectors. On that basis, per
capita GDP has declined by about 12% in 1981-83, with the largest
reductions in incomes and employment concentrated in the main industrial
centers.
The Economic Outlook
13.       Brazil is pursuing in 1984 a striugent adjustment program,
directed internally to the generation of a surplus equivalent to 0.3Z of
GDP in the public sector's operational budget, and externally to the
achievement of a massive US$9 billion surplus in commodity trade. Growth
of both the money supply and the monetary base is to be limited to no more
than 50%_ Targets for the public sector, which are being closely
monitored, involve improved performance in the central government, state
enterprises, state, municipal and social security budgets equivalent in
total to 3% of GDP, and the overall borrowing requirement is to be reduced
to 11-13% of GDP depending on the level of inflation and its rate of
decline. High inflation has persisted despite the monetary measures taken
to date, but the Government hopes for a decline of up to one-half of the
1983 rate of 211% during 1984, and has not been deterred by the continuing
price rises from taking further steps to adjust relative prices and
liberalize pricing policies. Measures which will have an impact in 1984
include increases in fuel product prices, to prevent the re-emergence of
subsidies; wheat and wheat products price rises designed to eliminate their
subsidy by mid-year; steel and electricity prices adjusted in 1984 to raise
them 5Z more than inflation; the liberation of trade in some agricultural
commodities; and the avoidance of market price controls. Trade adjustments
have included the elimination in December 1983 of restrictions on profit
remittances, most multiple currency practices, and bilateral payments
arrangements. The export tax credit system and the financial transactions
tax on foreign exchange will end in 1985, and some import liberalization
measures, including a move towards greater reliance on tariffs rather than
quantitative import controls, are to be introduced this year.
14.       International support for the adjustment program comprises a new
external financing package involving both the commercial banks and official
lending agencies. In addition to rescheduling principal payments of US$5.3
billion, commercial banks will provide US$6.5 billion in new loans, on
terms better than those obtained for the previous year. Official bilateral
aid will add US$2.5 billion in export guarantees and almost US$4.0 billion
in rescheduling through the Paris Club. In March 1984 the first IMF
tranche of $390 million was released and US$3.0 billion in commercial bank
funds was made available. The other US$3.5 billion will be disbursed in
instalments during the year, as will a further US$1.17 billion in INF
support, subject to quarterly performance reviews. New officially
guaranteed export credits may fall short of the planned US$2.5 billion, but
Brazil's trade surplus has continued to increase, reaching an unprecedented



- 5 -
US$1 billion in the month of March, and US$2.4 billion for the first
quarter of 1984. Manufacturing exports have led this growth and were 40.71
higher in this quarter than in the same period in 1983.
15.       The necessary resources therefore seem to be assured for 1984,
and there is some hope emerging in Brazil that the worst of the
recession may be past. There is a clear need, however, for further
external support, and for continuing efforts to adjust, to bring the
economy back to a sustainable longer-term external payments position.
Careful demandmanagement must be maintained if inflation is to be brought
under control. Public investments will continue to be limited by reduced
resource availabilities, probably for several years. Agricultural and
industrial production and exports are receiving high priority, as is the
further development of domestic energy resources. The maintenance of
international competitiveness through improved exchange rate management,
and more realistic pricing and interest rates for the domestic economy,
should help to promote more efficient resource allocation favorable to both
export growth and sound import substitution.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
16.       Any projection of Brazil's balance of payments depends heavily on
assumptions regarding the rate of export growth, interest rates and
petroleum prices.  About three quarters of its large external debt carries
variable interest rates, or is short term, and a change of 1% in average
annual LIBOR terms would mean a balance-of-payments gain or loss of about
US$700 million.  In 1983 oil accounted for over 50% of tota'l imports, even
though the volume of oil imports was 26% below the level of 1979. Allowing
for re-exports, a dollar per barrel change in average annual oil prices
would have a US$300 million impact on the balance of payments.
17.       Assuming that world economic conditions remain moderately
favorable, Brazil can look forward to a gradual recovery beginning this
year, and to growth reaching and possibly exceeding 51 per annum by 1987.
Such a scenario would be compatible with a falling current account deficit
through 1989. However, it does require the continued availability of net
capital inflows over the period. M&LT borrowing requirements for 1985 and
beyond will be substantial -- around US$16 billion gross but only US$5-6
billion net in 1985, and larger gross disbursements in the following 2-3
years. The total debt outstanding would remain approximately constant in
real terms over the rest of the decade. As Brazil's exports increase, the
net M&LT debt service ratio is expected to decline, from 75% in 1982 to a
projected 64% in 1989.
18.       The present emphasis on exports is therefore central to the
adjustment strategy. Brazil's industrial development through import
substitution has been relatively efficient because of its large domestic
market and diversified resource base. It has shown its capacity to compete
internationally in a wide variety of manufactured goods as well as primary
products.
19.       Nevertheless the possibility of short-term cash flow problems
cannot be ruled out. Difficulties could also arise if external



- 6 -
developments such as even higher real interest rates or growth in
protectionism undermine the Brazilian adjustment efforts. However, the
economy remains dynamic, diversified, and relatively resilient, and
policy-makers have repeatedly demonstrated their ability to adjust to
changing circumstances. With the Government's commitment to the austerity
program, and with IMF support, Brazil should be able to make the
adjustments needed to cope with adverse international circur tances and to
reorient the economy toward a more efficient development path for the
remainder of the decade. Thus, Brazil remains creditworthy for new
borrowing on conventional terms in the magnitudes described above.
Poverty Alleviation Programs
20.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has made substantial efforts to relieve
poverty. The educational system has been rapidly expanded, giving rise to
increased enrollment rates and reduced illiteracy. Social security
programs have been strengthened and extended to rural areas, and upgrading
and expanding health services for the poor have received much Government
attention. Increased Government efforts have also been directed to
low-cost housing programs for the poor and the improved provision of water
and sewerage services. In part as a reflection of these and other
programs, there are iudications, based upon preliminary estimates from the
1980 demographic census, of substantial living standard and welfare
improvements during the 1970s. Considerable absolute real income gains
were realized by all income decile groups.  Non-income gains, as reflected
by improved access to public services, declining infant mortality, and
increased durable consumer goods possession by households, also attest to
significant poverty reduction during the decade. Given the impact of
present economic difficulties on output and employment, however, there is a
possibility that some of these gains could be lost in the present crisis.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By March 31, 1984 the Bank had made 130 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$9,419.1 million (net of cancellations), of which 68 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching JSM202 million in FY76, US$472 million in FY82,
and US$764 million in FY83. The undisbtlrsed amount as of March 31, 1984
was US$4,130.6 million. Annex II contains a summrry statement of Bank
loans.
22.       Over the FY77-82 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$800 million per year. However, in FY83, sever.
loans totaling US$1,457.5 million were approved. They included US$8.9
,million for a project to help finance the preparation of metropolitan
development programs for Fortaleza and Salvador in Northeast Brazil,
US$364-4.5. million for an iror ore mining project in the Serra dos Carajas,
US$154.0 mn_lion for a third feeder roads project, US$220.0 million for a
second development banking project, US$302.3 million for a water and
sewerage sector project, US$67.8 million for a second rural development



project in the State of Bahia, and US$400.0 million for a third agro-
industries credit project. For FY84, loans for US$52.7 million for a
market towns improvement project in the State of Parana, US$352 million for
an export development project, US$303 million for an agricultural credit
and export development project, US$65.2 million for the third phase of the
Northwest region development program, US$20.0 million for techniclan
training, US$222.8 million for rural electrification, US$250.6 million for
power distribution and US$30.5 million in supplemental financing for
on-going agricultural and rural development projects and a loan of US$40.0
million for an urban basic education project in the North-Centerwest
regions have so far been approved. Documents for a proposed loan of US$210
million for a federal highways sector project are being distributed to the
Executive Directors at about the same time as those for this project.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$81.0 billion at the
end of 1983. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 4.32 while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 3.5Z.
24.       As of March 31, 1984, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,007.77 million, of which US$631.15 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$376.62 million, US$298.29 million
represent loans and US$78.33 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of March 31, 1984 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Brazil is now undergoing a difficult adjustment period, in large
part due to external events. At the same time, it faces the challenge of
ieve'oping a longer-term development strategy compatible with lower average
econo-ic growth rates and reduced availability of external resources, while
satisfying the country's vast unmet social needs. These present and
prospective adjustments are being accompanied by complementary changes in
the Bank lending stratt.gy for Brazil.
26.       In the short-run, the Bank will try to help ease Brazil's current
external financing constraint through accelerated resource transfers
coupled with support for the major policy changes required by the austerity
program and necessary for longer-term growth and lower inflation. In
support of these efforts, several modalities of the Bank's Special Action
Program, approved by the Executive Directors on February 22, 1983 are being
reflected in our operations. These include working capital financing under
the third agro-industries project, financing of a higher share of project
costs of recently approved projects in the social sectors, supplemental
financing amounting to US$30.5 million for two ongoing agricultural and
rural development projects and ampnding existing loans, where warranted, to
provide for higher Bank disbursement rates during the period covered by the
Bank's Special Action Program. Also greater use is being made of Project
Special Accounts into which Bank funds are deposited in advance in order to
reduce the need for the Government to prefinance Bank's share of project
costs, and which allow disbursements of Bank funds to be made at the
exchange rate prevailing on the date of expenditure.



27.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil resume efficient and sustainable growth. One focus of the lending
program is on structural transformation and efficient resource use.
Expanding export capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign
exchange constraint on development while promoting efficiency through
exposure to international competition. Several loans to BNDES to
strengthen industrial development along these lines have already been
made. Sector loans to industry and agriculture, envisaging a restructuring
of incentive and trade policies in support of Government initiatives, have
been approved by the Executive Directors. Follow-up loans designed to
support the next steps in this adjustment process are under preparation.
Given agriculture's large potential contribution to export growth and
import substitution, adjustments in this sector will be crucial to Brazil's
transition from stabilization to growth.
28.       Another lending priority is the development of domestic energy
resources on a cost-effective basis and energy conservation. Lending for
the electric power sector, which encouraged the development and use of
hydroelectric energy, and the alcohol and biomass energy development
project, have addressed the need to reduce petroleum imports. Further
lending will be based on appropriate pricing of energy, so as to provide
incentives to producers and encourage conservation by consumers while
reducing government subsidies to the energy sector.
29.       A third lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary
education, vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural
extension, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, and
integrated rural development, were designed to assist low-income groups in
rural areas, especially those in the Northeast and tie Northwest. Loans
for water supply and sewerage projects in the state of Minas Gerais, in
greater Sao Paulo, in the Northeast and in the South, loans for urban
transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and
low-cost housing, and a loan for urban development in medium-sized cities
are assisting the improvement of the living conditions of the urban
population, particularly of the urban poor. Following up on a nutrition
research and development project and a first health project for the
northwest region, the proposed project would help promote efficiency, cost
effectiveness and equity in the delivery of health services in Brazil.
30.       Institution-building and improving the operations of the public
sector rema:in important couponents of the Bank strategy for Brazil and
would be a prominent feature of the proposed project.  The BWax  also serves
as a catalyst in stimulating the inflow of resources. Continued lending by
the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international financial comunity as
a sign of confidence in Brazil's development prospects. In some sectors,
especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation has helped
Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts from bilateral credit
agencies and private financial institutions than may otherwise have been
provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982, ten co-financing operations



- 9 -
for about US$560 million have been arranged and signed with private
financial institutions. Co-financing opportunities are rather limited in
Brazil for the time being, as the volume and terms of commercial bank
financing available to Brazil are determined within the framework of the
debt rescheduling package. Co-financing could become more important in the
near future, however, and as evidenced by the recently approved Bank
participation in a syndicated guarantee facility for the Carajas Iron Ore
Project (Loan 2196-BR), the new co-financing instruments developed by the
Bank could play a role in encouraging commercial banks to provide Brazil
with better financing terms and possibly additional lending for high
priority projects.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Health Sector Characteristics, Issues and Policies
31.       Brazil has a population of about 120 million, unevenly spread
over the country's 8.5 nillion km2. The population growth rate declined
from 2.9% (1960-70) to 2.5Z in the 1970-80 decade. The total fertility
rate is 4.1, which is above replacement levels. The most salient
demographic characteristic is heavy migration of rural poor to mostly urban
areas (1.5 to 2 million people each year). Within urban areas, the ten
largest metropolitan centers grew more quickly than small- and medium-sized
towns and cities.  Urban dwellers represented 68Z of total population in
1980, with an average growth rate of 4.1% in the 1970s.
32.       Health conditions in Brazil are generally poor, considering
Brazil's overall level of development. The infant mortality rate is
estimated at 77 per 1,000 live birt.hs, significantly higher than in
Colombia aad Mexico (56/1,000), countries with lower per capita income than
Brazil. Life expectancy at birth is 64 years, or comparable to Colombia
and Mexico. The health conditions vary widely by regions and by income
levels. For example, infant mortality is over 100 per 1,000 live births in
the Northeast region as a whole. The high-income urban areas of the South
and Southeast exhibit health conditions similar to those prevailing in
industrial societies, with high incidence of cardiovascular problems,
tumors and diseases associated with old age.  In contrast, the -poor rural
areas of the Northeast and the Amazon regions, as well as low-income
peri-urban areas throughout Brazil, show a high incidence of infections and
parasitic diseases and perInatal deaths typical of low-income countries.
Not surprisingly, life expectancy in the South and among the well-to-do is
estimated to be 12 to 15 years longer than among the rural poor.
33.       Malnutrition is also a major problem in Brazil.  Analysis of
national survey data collected in 1974/75 shows that only one-third of the
country's population is estimated to have met the FAO/WHO calorie
requirements at that time. Malnutrition is concentrated in infants and
children, especially in poor peri-urban areas and in rural areas of the
North and Northeast. Only 53% of children five years of age could be
considered adequately nourished (defined as weighing more than 90Z of the
median weight for the age) and nearly 4% of infants under six months in the
Northeast suffered from third-degree malnutrition at the time of the
survey. No national data is available for later dates.



- 10 -
34.       Health Service System.  Brazil's health system is characterized
by a multiplicity of competing and overlapping public agencies and a strong
private sector. The federal Ministry of Health (MOE) has traditionally
been responsible, in concert with the state Secretariats of Health (SES),
for the control of communicable diseases and maternal and child care. The
federal agency concentrates on malaria, schistosomiasis and Chagas disease
(the South American form of sleeping sickness), vhile the states have
historically focussed on tuberculosis, leprosy and immnmo-preventable
diseases, as well as maternal and child care and mental health. The bulk
of health services is supported by the National Social Security Institute
for Medical Assistance (INAMPS), vwich was created in 1967 by merging
several existing social security programs. INAMPS, along with other
institutes administering retirement and disability pension programs, is
supervised by the federal Ministry of Social Security and Welfare (MPAS)
but enjoys a high degree of financial and operational autonomy. DNAMPS is
financed by a payroll tax for wage-earners and equivalent taxes for the
self-employed and its subscribers now include 902 of all Brazilians.
35.       Prior to the 1970s, health services financed under social
security programs were delivered mainly through a network of clinics and
hospitals owned by the social security institutions. The rapid expansion
of coverage in recent years led the Government to support a massive
expansion of the private sector, so much so that INAMPS now contracts with
the private sector for about 562 of all services. In recent years, there
has beeu a rapid growth of profit-motivated enterprises in the health
sector which acco-nt for about half of all health facilities and 85% of all
speciality care institutions. They are concentrated in the higher-income
parts of the major urban centers. In contrast, most rural and low-income
urban areas continue to rely largely on limited, poorly-managed and
inadequately funded health services provided by state and municipal
administrations. As a result, while overall Brazil has a reasonable
network of health facilities (3.5 beds per 1,000 people as compared to an
average of two per 1,000 for Latin America), distribution of these
facilities is uneven, productivity is low and costs are raised by an
excessive use of sophisticated medical technology.
36.       Rapid expansion of medical schools in recent years has caused the
yearly supply of medical doctors to increase from about 1,500 in 1965 to
about 8,300 in 1975. There were an estimated total of 108,000 medical
doctors in 1981 and a ratio of one medical doctor per 4,000 people in the
Northeast and one per 600 in Rio de Janeiro. About 33,000 of them were
estimated to be unemployed or underemployed. By contrast, nurses and
auxiliary nurses, estimated at about 18,300 and 91,000, respectively- in
1980, are in short supply. Most Brazilian physicians hold several part-
time jobs and many of them use their association with public facilities to
recruit patients for profit-minded private clinics or practices.
37.       Public expenditures on health in Brazil represented in 1982 about
42 of GDP, which is not far behind some industrialized countries. However,
this proportion has risen rather rapidly from 1Z of GDP in 1949 and 2.5Z in
1978. In 1982, federal expenditures were about US$3.5 billion (about US$30
per capita). INAMPS accounted for 85X of these expenditures, which were
used, primarily for individual medical treatment. The remaining 152, spent
by the Ministry of Health and other ministries, represents the bulk of



- 1 -
public expenditures for preventive health services. A comparison of INAMPS
revenues and expenditures by region shows that there is some redistribution
within the system, although per-capita health expenditures financed by
INANMPS are still higher in the South than in the rest of the country. For
instance, the Northeast region, with 19Z of the population, generates 9Z of
the revenues and receives 17X of INAMPS' services. While the small MDH
budget is similarly slanted to the poorer states, health expenditures in
general are highest in the richer states where health condiLions are
better.
38.       Health Sector Issues.  Brazil has made substantial progress in
developing its health care system. The aggregate level of funding is
appropriate to Brazil's level of development and the supply of skilled
manpower is not a critical constraint, although there is a shortage of
general and public health nurses because a high proportion of professional
nurses work as administrators. However, significant problems remain, the
major ones being equity of access to health services between income groups
and across geographical areas, and inefficiency of the existing Brazilian
health service system. As indicated above, there are vast underserved poor
areas characterized by high fertility, high incidence of diseases such as
diarrhea and respiratory 'A.ections and malnutrition.  These problems could
be reduced with a low-cost basic health care system based on health centers
and associated regional hospita.ls. This system would integrate preventive
and curative services and health education. The growth of such a system
has been constrained until recently by the bias among policy makers and the
medical profession in general in favor of higher-cost curative care,
particularly in urban areas. The decreasing share of funding for primary
health care has resulted in a r&pid increase in medical expenditures with
only modest improvements in health status. A root cause of these problems
was the system of reimbursements by INAMPS which prevailed until recently
and which generated abuse and encouraged the use of unnecessary procedures,
the installation of expensive equipment and excessive expansion in the
number of medical specialists.
39.       A second set of issues concerns inadequate coordination between
MOH and MPAS. MOH is formally responsible for national health policy and
sector planning but MPAS controls the major part of public expenditures in
the health sector. Both ministries, together with the Ministry of
Education, are represented in a recently created commission for planning
and coordination (CIPLAN).  However, in the absence of representation from
the federal Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN), this committee has not proved
effective in coordinating health policies. Because of the above-described
problems, Brazil is not achieving the health status that financial and
manpower resources allocations for the health sector would suggest.
40.       Health Sector Policies.  On the demand side, the trend toward
political democratization has increased the pressure to expand and improve
health care delivery to the underserved parts of the population. At the
same time severe budgetarv pressures associated with the economic recession
have conflicted with the structural tendency of the system to produce
high-cost curative services. The net result of these demand and supply



- 12 - 
factors is increasing interest on the part of the federal and some state
gGVernmentS to redress the inequity and inefficiency of the health care
system by improving resource use and allocation, and coverage. A first
step in that direction was taken in 1976 with the establishment of a
Program for Grassroots Health and Sanitation Actions for the Northeast
(PIASS). The PIASS program's main elements are (a) extension of primary
health services to rural areas, (b) reliance on auxiliary personnel as
service providers, and (c) the use of INAMPS' funds to cover recurrent
costs. The PIASS program's concept has been made applicable to the rest of
the country by a 1979 federal law. More recent actions have aimed at
streamlining INAMPS reimbursement procedures with a view to improving cost
control and implementing an effective referral system. A pilot plan
initiated in Curitiba in the State of Parana provided for a reorientation
of health services in which patients must enter at the basic health unit
level, with referrals to secondary level public and private facilities as
needed. Under this plan, INAMPS makes fixed payments for given procedures
rather than fee-for-service.
41.       In 1981, a top level interministerial Consultative Council on the
Administration of Health Insurance (CONASP) was established to examine all
aspects of health care delivery and costs. It recommended that (a)
existing public sector facilities be fully utilized, with the health post
or center as the normal point of entry and improved referral criteria that
will recognize the complementarity of the private sector; (b) coverage be
widened in rural and peri-urban areas through reimbursement of public
sector agencies; (c) the health system be progressively decentralized and
state coordination and managerial capabilities for health activities be
,trengthened; (d) a new cost accounting and cost control system be
implemented aiming at curtailing abuses; and (e) the training and
utilization of health personnel be improved. These recommendations are now
being implemented. Such fundamental changes will require phased
introduction over a number of years and the proposed project is seen by the
Federal Government and the Government of the State of Sao Paulo as a
pioneer effort for helping to achieve these goals.
42.       The above health policy changes are being complemented by similar
efforts in health-related fields. In nutrition, attempts are being made to
coasolidate and better coordinate and evaluate the various existing
nutrition programs but results to date are mixed. In the past five years,
the government has given strong budgetary support for feeding programs and
less to food distribution. Greater emphasis is being placed on integrating
food supplementation programs with basic health care activities. New
income transfer programs are also being tested on a limited scale. On the
population question, official policy has shifted gradually from a
pro-natalist to a laissez-faire stance and recently to the reco6nition that
the Government, complementing private institutions, should provide the
means for Brazilians to plan the size of their families. A new
Government-funded women's health program, initiated on a pilot basis in
1984 and expected to cover the whole country by 1988, will provide family
planning services as part of a full range of maternal and child health
care.



- 13 -
Bank Involvement in Brazil's Health Sector
43.       The Bank's support for Brazil's health sector has until recent
years been confined to 17 rural health components of Bank-financed rural
and agricultural development projects. The total amount of Bank financing
committed to these health components is about US$30 million. The
components have been instrumental in consolidating the PIASS approach,
particularly in the Northeast. The Northwest Region health project, for
which a US$13 million loan was approved in late 1981, was the first
free-standing health project financed by the Bank In Brazil. The project
focusses on the basic health problems associated with the rapid influx of
migrants to the federal territory of Rondonia. Project implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily. An additional health project under
consideration would be primarily focussed on improving the management and
delivery of health services in one or more states of the Northeast. A
US$19 million loan was approved for a nutrition research and development
project in 1976. The project has recently been completed and a project
completion report is under preparation. As a result of the project, Brazil
is in a better position than before to launch a serious effort against
malnutrition. Several programs initiated under the project (i.e., the
pre-school feeding program and two consumer food subsidy programs operating
through commercial channels) are being expanded by the Government, taking
account of lessons learned under the project. However, the project has
fallen short of some of its institution-building objectives as the National
Institute of Food and Nutrition which was supported under the project has
still to become an effective framework for planning and coordinating the
implementation of food and nutrition policies and actions. Bank loans for
water supply and sewerage projects in the state of Minas Gerais, in greater
Sao Paulo, in the Northeast and in the South are also assisting the
Improvement of the living and health conditions of the urban and rural
poor.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       The proposed project was prepared by the State Government of Sao
Paulo and Federal Government agencies with assistance from Bank staff. The
project has been under discussion between the Government and the Bank since
1979. The project was appraised in December 1982 and appraisal was
completed in February 1984. Such a long processing period is partly
accounted for by the complex changes in the health services delivery model
the project is seeking to introduce. Also, project discussions were
dffected by a changeover in the state Government. Negotiations for the
project were held from May 7 to May 14, 1984 and the Brazilian delegation
was led by Dr. Jose Serra, for the state of Sao Paulo, and Dr. Ricardo
Guimaraes Campos de Pinho, for the Federative Republic of Brazil. A Staff
Appraisal Report entitled -Brazil: Second Health Project- (Report No.
4447a-BR, dated                 ) is being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as
Annex III.



- 14 -
Proj ect Rationale
45.       There are several reasons why a project directed at the poor
areas of the metropolitan region of Sao Paulo and supporting a program of
national health policy studies is a logical next step to the recent
initiatives by the Brazilian Government to improve the equity and
efficiency of the health system. The metropolitan region of Sao Paulo
reflects, in an accentuated form, the contrasts and shortcomings noted in
the Brazilian health system. Of the region's 12.6 million inhabitants
(1980), half are classified as poor (earning less than five minimum
salaries). Health conditions in the peripheral areas where the proposed
activities would concentrate are comparable to those prevailing in Brazil's
poor rural areas. These peripheral areas are characterized by rapid
population growth, primarily as a result of rural-urban migration and
extensive squatter settlement. Existing health facilities are limited and
generally of poor quality with lw availability of services. They remain
largely underutilized because of these deficiencies. In contrast, downtown
Sao Paulo has a sophisticated middle-class oriented health system and its
well-to-do population exhibits moderate to low-infant mortality and a
disease profile resembling that of developing countries.
46.       Strong popular demand for better health care for the peripheral
and other underserved areas of the metropolitan region of Sao Paulc has
prompted the state government in recent years to look for a health delivery
system that would attend to the vast unmet needs of large numbers of
people, and would be consistent with increasing constraints on public
f.nance.  Plans drawn up by the state government were influenced by an
innovative experience carried out in the municipality of Cotia. There,
ambulatory and hospical services were integrated and the range of services
broadened. Visible and cost-effective improvements in health conditions in
the area served by this integrated network were achieved. The federal
government has also been supportive of the state government's efforts to
change the orientation and expand the coverage of health services in the
metropolitan region of Sao Paulo. The federal government is aware that
these plans, if successful, would enhance the acceptability nationwide of
the proposed low-cost urban basic health care delivery system and would
make a major contribution to its plans for rationalizing resource
allocation for the health sector and improving sector management and
financing. It is against this ,ackground that the federal and Sao Paulo
state governments requested Bank assistance and that the project presented
below has been designed.
47.       Project Objectives and Main Features.  The project's principal
objectives are to (a) improve health status of the low-income population of
Greater Sao Paulo; (b) improve the cost effectiveness of health services
delivered generally in Greater Sao Paulo; and (c) help Brazil to fortmlate
and implement appropriate medium-term objectives, policies and plans for
the entire health sector. These objectives would be pursued under two main
sub-projects. The Sao Paulo basic health care sub-project would support
the introduction of a basic health care delivery model that would (i)
emphasize prevention of illness, as well as health and nutrition education
and family planning, while providing low-cost curative care which would
cover about 90Z of the health needs of an average comnunity; (ii) provide
services through a network of grassroots-level basic health units supported



- 15 -
by community hospitals; (iii) support the introduction of effective
referral system and improved health service payment procedures in line with
COKASP recommendations described in paragraph 41 above; and (iv) promote
the rational use of medical personnel through appropriate employment of
paramedical staff and well-remunerated full-time physicians. It is
intended that the model developed and lessons learned under this project
would be replicated elsewhere in the state and in Brazil. The national
health policy studies sub-project would support a program of studies
designed to help Brazil to formulate and implement appropriate medium-term
objectives and plans for the entire health sector.
48.       Areas to be Covered by the Sao Paulo Basic Health Care
Sub-Project. Whilc the sub-project's impact would be felt throughout the
Greater Sao Paulo area, key activities to be supported under the
sub-project would be concentrated in five selected target areas (see
attached IBRD map No. 17283R) with about 1.7 million people, where the new
model of basic health services would be fully developed. Additionally, in
eight health districts within the municipality of Sao Paulo, only
ambulatory and referral services would be provided to about 800,000 people
by the basic health units to be established in 38 -extension points". It
is intended that full implementation of the new model in the districts
comprising these extension points would be part of follow-up phases that
would promote the extension of the new model to most of Greater Sao Paulo.
49.       Two of the selected target areas, the area of Freguesia do 0
(five health districts with a population of 580,000) and Itaquera-
Guaianazes (two health districts with a population of 577,000) are within
the Municipality of Sao Paulo. The first area was chosen partly because
the unusual level of cooperation between the various public and private
health services will allow the concept of coordinated operation of public
and private sector facilities to be tested. The second area exhibits
particularly acute shortage of health facilities. The remaining three
target areas are outside che Municipality of Sao Paulo. They are: (a) the
area of Cotia (with a population of 63,000), the site of an existing pilot
project which pioneered many of the aspects of the new model now proposed
for wider application; (b) the area of Caieiras (five semi-rural
municipalities with 161,000 people); and (c) the area of Maua (three
heterogeneous municipalities with a population of 294,000). The choice of
the latter two areas was dictated by the fact that the new health system
can be introduced almost immediately using existing hospitals. Eight of
the districts where "extension points- would be located are in the
periphery of the Municipality of Sao Paulo, the ninth being in the central
zone. Squatter settlements and high density low-standard dwellings
predominate in these areas together with extremely poor health conditions
and deficient health facilities.
50.       Project Components.  The project would include the following
two sub-projects each supported by a separate Bank loan:
A.  The National Health Policy Studies Sub-Project (hereafter called
national studies sub-project) to be carried out by the federal
Government, would support a program cf national studies aimed at



- 16 -
providing a coherent framework within which medium-term health
sector objectives and plans will be formulated and implemented.
This sub-project would be carried out over the period July
1984-December 1987.
B.  The Sao Paulo Basic Health Care Sub-Project (hereafter called the
Sao Paulo sub-project) would include the following activities:
(a) Development of Sub-Project Institutions. (i) Establishing a
sub-project management unit with about 20 technical staff; (ii)
providing about 140 man-months of management consultants and 20
man-months of special advisors on health services organization,
delivery and evaluation; (iii) developing monitoring, evaluation
and management systems; and (iv) carrying out a set of sub-
project-related research studies and studies for follow-up phases
of the sub-project.
(b) Training and Manpower Development.  (i) Strengthening the
capability of the Human Resources Center within the State
Secretariat of Health (SES); (ii) developing training programs
for health services staff; and providing training equipment.
(c) Health Facilities. (i) Constructing and equipping about 100
basic health units (UBS) and five local 220-bed hospitals;
(ii) upgrading and equipping 28 existing UBS and two hospitals,
completing the municipal hospital in Itaquera and acquiring and
modifying a hospital available for sale in Maua; and (iii)
providing about 72 ambulances and 180 vehicles for sub-project
facilities, management and training.
The bulk of the Sao Paulo sub-project is expected to be executed over a
four-year period, July 1984-June 1988; sowe start-up activities are being
carried out since January 1983.
DETAILED FEATURES
The National Health Policy Studies Sub-Project
51.       The federal Ministry of Health (NOR) would be responsible for the
implementation of this sub-project and would establish, for the purpose, a
special executive group reporting directly to the Ministry's Secretary
General. MOE would receive technical support from the National Human
Resources Center (CNRH) of the federal Secretariat of Planning's Economic
Planning Institute (IPEA). In particular, CNRH would assist the Ministry
in the preparation of yearly study programs and terms of reference for
specific studies, the selection of consultants and executing institutions
for carrying out the studies, the supervision of the consultants' work and
the evaluation of studies' results. The terms and conditions of CNER's
assistance to MOR for purposes of the sub-project would be defined in an



- 17 -
agreement to be entered into, no later than October 31, 1984. The terms
and conditions of this agreement would be satisfactory to the Bank.
Interminiscerial coordination would be provided by CIPLAN which would be
responsible for reviewing and approving the programs of studies, related
budgets, and implementation measures to be prepared by MOH. CIPLAN would,
for sub-project purposes, be enlarged to include representatives of
IPEA/CNRH. Terms of reference for the studies, their execution
arrangements and schedules would be satisfactory to the Bank. MDO would
review with the Bank by October 31 each year, starting October 31, 1984,
the progress of ongoing studies, the study plan for the subsequent year and
the proposed policy actions resulting from the findings of the studies
already completed (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement for the
national studies sub-project).
The Sao Paulo Basic Health Care Sub-Project
52.       Development of Sub-Project Institutions.  The sub-project would
support the operation of a Project Management Unit (PMU) headed by a
project manager and comprising about 20 professional staff, including
health planning specialists and technical and administrative staff. PMU
was established in December 1983 by a decree of the Governor of Sao Paulo.
PMU would oversee the implementation of the systemic and organizational
changes associated with the introduction of the new health model. In
support of these activities the sub-project would provide 140 man-months of
management consultants and 20 man-months of special advisors on health
service organization, delivery and evaluation. The sub-project would also
help finance the developing of monitoring and evaluation and management
systems as well as research studies related to the sub-project and the
preparation of follow-up activities. Equipment and vehicles, PMU staff
salaries, and consultancies services, would be financed under this
component.
53.       Training and Manpower Development.  The sub-project would support
the development of a Human Resources Development Center (HRC) within SES.
HRC was established in 1979 to strengthen SES manpower planning and
development capabilities. However, HRC has not been able to date to play
any major role in its areas of responsibilLty due to lack of adequate
resources. HRC would be strengthened to oversee the considerable training,
staff recruitment, and management activities associated with the
sub-project. Staff training activities would include: orientation and
retraining of existing staff in the operation of the new model of health
services; pre-service training of newly-recruited staff; and management
training for senior staff. There would be about 1,100 course offerings
over four years, with 11,000 participants. The sub-project would also
provide for about eleven senior staff to undertake training courses of
three- to twelve-month duration in health care delivery and administration,
planning, evaluation, and manpower development. Courses would be offered
by existing training institutions such as the University of Sao Paulo and
the Getulio Vargas Foundation. Some of these training courses would also
be taken abroad where appropriate programs are not available in Brazil, or
where transfer of know-how from abroad is deemed essential. Service-
training programs would also be organized in some project hospitals and



- 18 -
health centers. These would include residency programs for medical
undergraduates and graduates. The sub-project would help finance the
upgrading and equipping of existing training facilities and vehicles and
consultancy services for the training program.
54.       Health Facilities.  There are at present 55 basic health units
(UBS) in the main te -get areas covered by the project. Most of these units
are small and obsolete, many are in unsuitable quarters. Of these, 28
would be renovated. Some 59 new UBS would be constructed under the sub-
project in the five target areas. About 38 new UBS would be constructed in
the nine health districts comprising the extension points. The location of
these basic health units to be upgraded or constructed under the sub-
project has been determined based on the results of a mapping exercise
assuming a 20-30 minute access time. Each UBS will be equipped and staffed
to provide medical surveillance, diagnosis and treatment of common diseases
and health problems and surgical care which would not require sophisticated
medical technology or highly specialized personnel. Health education,
nutrition, and family planning services, would also be provided, the latter
as part of the recently initiated government's program of integral care for
women and children. Together, these services are expected to cover 9OZ of
the health needs of the target population.
55.       Under the sub-project, about 1,830 new hospital beds additional
to the 1,650 now existing in the target areas would be provided as follows:
(a) five new general hospitals each of about 220 beds will be constructed;
(b) an existing virtually completed 226-bed hospital in the area of Maua
which is up for sale will be acquired and, with minor modifications, fitted
for project requirements; however, the Bank would not disburse against the
hospital's purchase cost; (c) the municipality of Sao Paulo would complete
by March 31, 1985 a 250-bed hospital in the Itaquera target area; (d) a
state-owned psychiatric hospital with 140 beds would be converted to
general practice and expanded; and (e) 115 new beds would be added to the
private non-profit Cotia hospital, the technical departments upgraded and
additional equipment provided. These hospitals would provide the following
services: internal medicine, general surgery, obstetrics-gynecology,
pediatrics, and psychiatry. Each hospital would have an emergency unit but
no out-patient department as most such services would, in the future, be
provided at the UBS level. Prior to proceeding with the preparation of
final drawings for any of the five new hospitals to be constructed under
the sub-project, the state would have first agreed with the Bank on the
preliminary drawings for each of these hospitals (Section 3.07 of the draft
Loan Agreeement for the Sao Paulo sub-project).
56.       The network of UBS and hospitals to be provided under the
sub-project would be organized along the following lines. The basic
organizational unit for health services would be the health module, which
would serve a population of 60,000 to 250,000 people. Each module would
normally include one local hospital and two to ten UBS. A referral system
would integrate the UBS to local and regional hospitals. Staff would be
expected to rotate between ambulatory and in-patient services, where
appropriate. The second-level organizational unit would be the health
area, comprised of up to six health modules, or up to 470,000 people.



- 19 -
Logistical functions such as material and drugs supplies, laundry and
ambulance services would be managed at the level of the health area. In
the two health areas within the municipality of Sao Paulo, the Municipal
Secretariat of Hygiene and Health (SHS) would assume operational control of
all public sector health services. New facilities in these areas would be
owned by SHS and, over time, SES facilities and staff in the areas would be
turned over to SUS. In the areas outside the municipality of Sao Paulo,
SES would continue to be responsible for the operation of public health
services but plans would be developed for rapid municipalization of service
delivery. In the Cotia area, the present cooperative arrangements between
the state, municipality, and private charitable bodies would continue.
57.       Sub-Project Organization and Management.   An Inter-Institutional
Health Commission (CIS) composed of the State Secretary of Health, the
regional superintendent of INAMPS and the representative of MOH in Sao
Paulo, has been established as the highest level governing board for the
Program of Comprehensive Health Care in the State of Sao Paulo, of which
the sub-project is currently the major undertaking. As such, CIS would
provide policy guidelines for the sub-project, designate the project
manager, and approve budgets and investment and operation plans. When
acting on these sub-project matters, CIS would ensure the participation in
its deliberations of representatives of the State Secretariat of Planning
and the Municipal Secretariats of Hygiene and Health and Finance (Section
3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement for the Sao Paulo sub-project). The
October 27, 1983 agreement establishing the CIS also envisages the setting
up of a Regional Inter-Institutional Health Council within the CIS
framework to deal with matters specific to all the municipalities in the
Sao Paulo metropolitan area, and of a Municipal Lnter-Institutional Health
Council for individual municipalities.
58.       Major responsibility for sub-project implementation would rest
with a Project Management Unit (PMU) established within SES by a State's
decree. P.IU would be responsible for detailed sub-project planning and
programming, procurement, construction supervision, and sub-project
finances as well as for overseeing the delivery of health services in the
sub-project areas to ensure that the new model of health services is
implemented as planned and that agreed targets for the delivery of services
and for improvements in efficiency are met. PMU would be supported by SES'
sections for planning, construction, finance and administration.  PMU would
closely work with HRC for manpower planning, staffing and training, and
with SES and SHS health information centers as concerns monitoring and
evaluation. PMU would also closely liaise with a small unit to be
established within the cabinet office of SHS to coordinate the sub-project
with other plans and activities of SHS.  A PMU general manager with
suitable qualifications and experience has already been appointed. The
regulations governing the activities of PMU have already been approved in
principle by CIS. Their enactment would be a condition of the Sao Paulo
sub-project's loan effectiveness.  PMU, SES, and SHS units participating in
the sub-project would be staffed at all times with suitably qualified and
experienced personnel. Physicians and other staff employed by SES and SHS
for manning health facilities in the sub-project area would normally be
employed on a full-time basis and would be paid adequate salaries and



- 20 -
allowances adjusted in line with Sao Paulo State law on health personnel
classification (Law No. 341 of January 1984). The state would consult the
Bank on changes in the organizational aspects of the sub-project,
particularly of PNU or the sub-project's five health areas (Sectioais
6.01(c), 3.08, and 5.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement for the Sao Paulo
sub-project).
59.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  Primary responsibility for monitoring
would be with the manager at each level. PMU would coordinate and
consolidate these monitoring activities. A system of management
information would be established to allow for corrective actions by
management where needed. The present multitude of forms and reports would
be streamlined to generate only those data needed by managers to analyze
the performance and impact of sub-project actions. Analysis of data for
statistical and evaluation purposes would be undertaken by SES' Health
Information Center, which will be strengthened under the project. As part
of the evaluation of sub-project activities andimpact, a base line study
and a series of studies, including studies on management issues, efficiency
of health services, diagnostic technology, and comparison of alternative
service delivery techniques, would be carried out either by PHU or local
consultants. PHU would submit quarterly progress reports on sub-project
activities to the Bank. An evaluation report on sub-project activities as
of June 30, 1986 would be submitted to the Bank no later than September 30,
1986 (Section 3.04(c) of the draft Loan Agreement for the Sao Paulo
sub-project). This interim evaluation report would serve as a basis for a
mid-term review of sub-project activities to be carried out jointly by the
state Government authorities and the Bank.
Project Cost and Financing
60.      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$123.6
million equivalent, of which about US$121.6 million for the Sao Paulo
sub-project and US$2.0 million for the national studies sub-project.
Estimated foreign exchange equivalent for the entire project is US$24.0
million. Local tax element, estimated at US$11.0 million, is accounted for
entirely by the Sao Paulo sub-project. Physical contingencies were
estimated at 15X of base costs for building construction costs and 5% for
all other items. Price contingencies were calculated in U.S. dollars and
were based on the following expected rates of increase for international
prices: 3.5% in 1984, 8% in 1985, 9% in 1986 and thereafter. The same
levels were used for both local and foreign costs as it was assumed that
the cruzeiro would be de'ralued during this period according to the
difference between domestic and international inflation. A breakdown of
the estimated cost is shown on the Loan and Project Summary.
61.       Each of the two sub-projects would be supported by a separate
Bank loan. The proposed loan of US$2.0 million for the national studies
sub-project, which includes about US$5,000 for the capitalized front-end
fee, would finance 100% of the net-of-tax cost of these studies, as was
envisaged when the two sub-projects were covered under a single loan. The
proposed loan of US$55.5 million, for the Sao Paulo sub-project, which
includes about US$0.1 million for the capitalized front-end fee, would



- 21 -
finance about 50Z of the net-of-tax sub-project cost. It would cover the
foreign exchange component and US$31.5 million equivalent (about 32%) of
local costs. The financing of a share of local costs will ease the
implementation of this poverty alleviation-oriented sub-project.
Retroactive financing of up to US$3.5 million equivalent would be permitted
for the Sao Paulo sub-project to help cover eligible expenditures incurred
after January 1, 1983 for technical assistance, project management and a
limited amount of civil works. The municipality of Sao Paul) would provide
counterpart funds required for project facilities witbin its area of
jurisdiction (about US$26.5 million equivalent). The state of Sao Paulo
would contribute the balance of the sub-project cost (US$33.5 million
equivalent). The state would consult with the Bank on the financial and
manpower implications of new major investments in the health sector in
Greater Sao Paulo outside the scope of the sub-project (Sections 5.01(aj
and 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreeme--t for the Sao Paulo sub-project).
62.       Recurrent costs associated with the Sao Paulo sub-project will be
shared among INAIMPS, the State, the Municipality of Sao Paulo, and to a
lesser extent, other participating municipalities.  INAMPS would finance
50% of hospital service expenditures and the cost of ambulatory service
expenditures based on a fee-for-service schedule. The remaining part of
these recurrent costs would be shared between the State and Municipality of
Sao Paulo. A detailed maintenance plan for sub-project facilities would be
submitted to the Bank by June 30, 1985 and provisions for maintenance of
project facilities, at least 1.5% and 1.3Z of replacement cost of buildings
and vehicles respectively, would be included in the annual budgets o:: the
respectlve entities responsible for such facilities (Sections 5.01(a) and
4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement for the Sao Paulo sub-project).
63.       Procurement.  Procurement arrangements for the Sao Paulo
sub-project would be as follows. There would be about 15 civil work
contracts for the construction of new facilities and about 20 minor
contracts for upgrading of existing facilities for a total of about
US$65.9 million, including contingencies which would be awarded after LCB.
Given the relatively small size of the contracts (average cost of US$4.5
million for new construction works), the strength of the dowDstic
construction industry and the scope and nature of the work, foreign
contractors are not likely to be interested, although they would not be
excluded.  Standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank would be
developed for each type of construction. After a first round of prior
review of bidding documents for all types of construction, such prior
review will be retained only for hospitals. Complex equipment such as
x-ray machines and surgical equipment for a total of US$7.0 million would
be procured after ICB. Brazilian suppliers whose bids contain components
manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the bid would
be given a margin of preference of 15% or the applicable import duties,
whichever is lower. Other equipment items and all furniture and vehicles
would be procured after LCB. These are items which would be acquired over
the project execution period in relatively small packages and which are
produced in Brazil at competitive prices. All items that cannot be grouped
into economical packages, up to an aggregate of US$600,000, would be
procured through shopping after obtaining at least three price quotations.



- 22 -
Prior review of proposed contract awards, whether ICB or LCB, would be
required on all contracts above US$1.0 million.
64.       Consultancy Services.  Consultancy services would be required to
carry out the studies provided under the national studies sub-project and,
in the case of the Sao Paulo sub-project, help strengthen institutions
involved in sub-project execution, support the implementation of sub-
project activities, carry out studies and policy analyses and provide staff
training. The cost of such services, exclusive of contingencies, would
range from US$6,500 to US$10,000 per month including individual fees,
travel and local allowances. It is expected that most consultants could be
contracted from within Brazil. The selection, qualifications, experience,
and terms and conditions of employment of these consultants would be in
accordance with Bank policies and procedures; consultants on health
services organizatioa, delivery and evaluation would be hired by April 1,
1985 (Sections 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement for the Sao Paulo sub-
project and 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement for the national studies
sub-project).
65.       Disbursements. The proceeds of the loan for the national studies
sub-project (US$2.0 million) would be disbursed against I1OZ of sub-project
expenditures (net of taxes). The proceeds of the loan for the Sao Paulo
sub-project (US$55.5 million) would be disbursed against all sub-project
components except for expenditures associated with the completion of the
Itaquera hospital and the purcbase of the hospital in Maua. The
percentages to be disbursed under eligible components would be as follows:
(a) 100Z of expenditures for equipment procured through ICB, consultancy
--e-vices, studies and overseas training; and (b) 41Z of expenditures for
all remaining sub-project components. In order to reduce the interval
during which the Borrowers would finance the Bank's share of the project
costs with their own resources, the Borrowers may request the Bank to make
advance payments of up to US$0.3 million and US$5.0 million into Special
Accounts to be opened in the Central Bank for the national studies
sub-project and the Sao Paulo sub-project respectively (Section 2.02 of the
respective draft Loan Agreements). In the case of the latter sub-project,
the state of Sao Paulo would make, as a condition of the first advance
pavment into the related Special Account, an initial deposit in cruzeiros
of 2.0 billion into a Project Account within FUNDES (State Health Fund) to
be administered by Banco do Estado de Sao Paulo (BANESPA). This Project
Account would be replenished by disbursements from the related Special
Account and by periodic counterpart allocations. A special condition of
effectiveness for the Loan Agreement for the Sao Paulo sub-project would be
that satisfactory By-laws governing the operation of the Project Account
had been issued and the Account's Administrator appointed. The Borrowers
would be entitled to make withdrawals in cruzeiros from the Special
Accounts upon submission of withdrawal applications to the Central Bank.
Conversion from U.S. dollars to cruzeiros would be made at the exchange
rate that prevailed on the date the expenditures on the project were made.
The Central Bank would forward the withdrawal applications to the Bank,
which would then replenish the Special Accounts. Supporting documentation
for salaries and operational expenses under the Sao Paullo sub-project would



- 23 -
not be submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by the agency
responsible for their certification and would be made available for
inspection by the Bank during project supervision missions. Standard
documentation covering contracted civil works, vehicles, equipment and
technical assistance would be submitted to the Bank. Disbursements for the
Sao Paulo sub-project would be conditional upon receipt by the Bank of
satisfactory evidence that: (a) an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank,
has been entered into by the state and the owners of the Cotia hospital
defining the terms and conditions of the participation and operation of the
hospital under the sub-project, for investments relating to that hospital;
and (b) each participating municipality has adhered to the CRIS agreement
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for sub-project
in-vestments in such participating municipality (para. 4 of the Schedule 1
to the draft Loan Agreement for the Sao Paulo sub-project). The loan for
the national studies sub-project is expected to be fully disbursed by June
30, 1988, and the loan for the Sao Paulo sub-project by June 30, 1989.
Accounts and Audit
66.       Participating agencies would maintain separate accounts of
project expenditures, which would be audited annually by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank. Copies of the participating agencies'
audited statements would be provided to the Bank within six months of the
end of the calendar year. These reports would include an opinion (and
comments as necessary) on the methods employed in the compilation of the
statement of expenditures, their accuracy, the relevaace of supporting
documents, eligibility for financing in terms of the project's legal
agreements and the standard of record-keeping and internal controls related
to the foregoing (Sections 4.02 of the respective draft Loan Agreements).
The Special Accounts would be audited by independent auditors satisfactory
to the Bank (Sections 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement for the national
studies sub-project and 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement for the Sao Paulo
sub-project).
Benefits and Justification
67.       The proposed project is expected to make a significant
contribution to the federal and Sao Paulo state governments" objectives of
expanding health service coverage, particularly among the urban poor, while
promoting key policy changes designed to bring about cost-effectiveness and
efficiency throughout the health system. It Is expected that lessons
learned under the project and the results of project-financed national
health policy studies would help formulate and implement coherent plans and
programs for th- entire health sector.
68.       The Sao Paulo basic health care sub-project is expected to have a
major impact on the health status of the sub-project area population. It
has been estimated that as a result of sub-project actions, infant
mortality would decline by 30% over eight years and child mortality by
20Z. By doubling the proportion of children vacciaated, the incidence of
measles is expected to decline by half and tuberculosis by a quarter. In
the area of chrcnic diseases, an objective would be to identify and monitor



- 24 -
60Z of all cases of hypertension. A principal justification of the sub-
project is that it would reduce health care costs. Part of t-ite reduction
would be achieved by the elimination of waste and abuse in the current
system. The major cost reduction would result, however, from a systematic
change designed to expand primary care to reduce hospital in-patient care.
While hospitalizations and ambulatory visits are expected to increase as
coverage of the health system is expanded, policy and cost containment
reforms under the project would result in fewer hospitalizations per person
served than without the project.  Specificall* the project is expected to
bring down the actual rate of hospitalizations  per person in the project
area from the current level of 0.12 to the level of 0.10 prescribed by
CONASP, or a 20% decrease per person.
69.       The operating costs for existing public health facilities in the
Sao Paulo sub-project area would be about US$9.5 million in 1984. In 1988,
when new facilities are completed, recurrent costs would rise to US$119
million annually (1984 prices). Hospitals would account for about 20Z of
these costs, health units for about 77%, and central administration and
services for 3%.  Salaries would represent about half these operating
costs. These expenditures, while significant, entail substantial savings
when compared to projected expenditures that would be required to achieve
the sub-project's health coverage targets without the policy reforms to be
introduced under the sub-project. About 50% of these costs would be
covered by INAMPS which would benefit from cost reductions to be generated
by the proposed model of health services delivery. The remaining share
would be met by the state and the municipality of Sao Paulo out of their
respective budgets which could accommodate such high-priority expenditures.
Risks
70.       The risks associated with the proje:t, especially the Sao Paulo
sub-project, are in the area of management and political support. Project
managers will require great insight, energy and skill (as well as the
logistical support) to carry out the changes in health services delivery
and financing that will be needed - along with the ancillary programs of
health promotion and education, improvement in employment conditions, staff
training and motivation - in the face of bureaucratic inertia and possible
opposition from private sector health entrepreneurs. These risks would be
kept in check by: the strong political commitment consistently
demonstrated by the various levels in the federal, state, and minicipal
governments; careful selection of the key managers; the inclusion of
management consultants; the incorporation into project planning and
implementation of INAMPS, which has a strong commitment to reform and a
short but impressive record of success elsewhere in Brazil; the inclusion
of private sector elements in the Sao Paulo sub-project design; and the
phasing of the sub-project implementation in line with expected managemaent
capabilities.
3/  Admission per person per annum.



- 25 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMT AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Loan Agreement between the State of Sao Paulo and the
Bank, and related draft Guarantee between the Federal Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank, and the Reports of the Committee provided for in
Article iii, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of the Agreenent are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
72.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section iii of
Annex III. There are no special conditions of effectiveness or
disbursements for the national studies sub-proje't.  Conditions of
disbursements for the Sao Paulo sub-project are listed in paragraph 65. A
special condition of effectiveness for the loan for the Sao Paulo sub-
project would be that the Regulations and By-laws governing the Project
Management Unit and the Project Account referred to in paragraph 65 have
been issued in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank and that the
Account's Administrator has been appointed. There are no cross-
effectiveness or cross-default clauses between the two loans presented in
this report as they support self-contained though related sub-projects to
be carried out by institutions at different levels of jtjiisdiction.
PART VI-RECOMMENDAIIONS
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loans.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Hay 31, 1984
Washington, D. C.



- 26 -
ANE I
Page 1 of 5
BRAZI.                - SOCIL  MSICAMT   DIM A SEAT r
BRAZIL                                          PSREFCCE   WPS (EIGlfIfE  AERAGES) I
"M.r                    (MOST RECNEr ESTMIATE) lb
ino&    to&  RIT               MIDDLE INCOME     l ISILE 1DCKEE
21960'-b    i19olb EsrmnsThb     A  AJ.1fCA a CAR             RO
A    CTBSAN SQ. n0
TOrJL                            85tZ 0     8512_0     8512.0
ARICOILTDRML                    16213       198t.2     Z209.5               .
GOPM  CANTE (1M$)                   330.0      610.0      2220.0           2088.2                  2453.6
zom       wn ma11 CAll
[x(LORahS OF r  L  SQOAtVLEn     385.0       S77.0     1102_0          t1S06                    15EO 8
PoILATiOKJUD-lEAR (TuousAs)  72594.0    958e7.0   120507.0
UW    POPULATTOS (: OF rot.)      46.1        55.9       68.2             6S.9                    67.
POPULATION POJECTIONS
POPMATWI  iN fER 20W  (MML)                           176.7
STATIO1A0 POLATIO  (IL)                               29.0
TEMR STATIOSAR POP. REACHE                            2110
POPULATION umm
PER SQ. Dl.                      6.5        11.3       13.9             35.6                    82.0
mER SQ. D. ACi. LA               4 .8      48.4        53.6             93.z                   157.2
POATION MM SlIUCTURE (C)
0-14 ItS                        43.6       *2.7       41.1             40.1                     31.9
15-64 ns                        53.8        54.3       55.4             55.8                    60.9
65 AM ABo                        2.6        3.1         3.5             4.1                      7.2
POPUATION GROW- RATE (C)
tornL                            3.1        2.8         2.1              2.3                     1.6
uRi                              5.5        4.7         3.9              3.7                     3.4
CRUDE bIRTR RATE (PER TISs)       42.7       35.0        30.5             31.5                    25.0
CRUDE DEaTU RATE (SE TUS)         12.9       10.3         8.2             tlI                      9.1
CROSS REflRODaOS RATE              3.0        2.4         1.9              2.0                     1.7
FauLy FLAinG
ACCEPTORS. AmmsL CTr801)          .        111.0      203.6e              -
USILS  o- r BARRIE  UZS)m                     -- 
lTHUI O FOO PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     89.0      102.0       128.0            113.0                   108.4
ER CAPITA SUPrLY OF
caLORm  cs OF REQUIRDCS)       106.0       104.0      109.0            111.3                   129.6
PIrIMINS (AMS PER DAY)          64.0        62.0       61.0             67.9                    92.3
OF tWHNCN A   S. ADS PULSE     35-0        34.0       36.01d           34.1                    34.6
CHILD (AQS 1-4) DEATH RATE        19.4       12.5         6.9              .3                     10.4
5mai
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (TEARS)     54.7        58.9       63.6             64.6                    67.2
IWASr YORT. RATE (PER TonS)      118.2       98.6        75.4            62.6                     71.4
ACCESS TO SAFE WlATER (tCOP)
TOTSA                             ..        55.0       77.1/-           64.6
URBAN                             ..       T7O          mstsf           77.t
RURIE                             ..        28.0       56.8              4.3.
ACCESS TO ECRErA DISPOSAL
(C OF POPMLATOTN)
TOTAL                             ..        58.0       64.8/e           54.6
URBaN                             ..        85.0       83.77-           69.8
RRAL                              ..        24.0       31.17r           2.8
POPOLATION PER psiSICLn         2670.0     2130.0      1700.0ff         1776.0                  1094.8
PoP. PER IURSNC PERSON          2810.0      1120.0      820.07!         1012.2                   762.5
POP. PER noSs, SW
TorAt                           310.0      270.0      250.0/a          477.0                   334.0
URBAN                          260.0       320.0         .             667.5                   216.0
RllRA                             .,          ,,         ,,           1921.6
ADMISSIOS PER HOSPITAL              ..        18.          ..             27.2                    20.0
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TCrtA                             5.1        4.8 B.9e.
UBAN                              ..         4.6        4.77              ..                       .
RURAL                             ..         5.2        5.37; 
AvERAIE N0. oF PERSOBsIIS
TOTAL                                        1.1
URIS                              ..         t.O
RURAt AL                                     1.2 2
ACCESS TO EtECr. (1 OF DWELINGS)
Torn.                           38.7        47.6       67.4
RS                                 ..       75.6       88.5
RUMl.                              ..        8.4       20.6



-27-                                            ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
EsRATL                - SOCIAL. ISVICATORS DATA SuErT
5AUZUI                               aEFEu E  caoiPs (&;EGT7EW AVERAGES) Ia
:sET                     (M5Sr R8CCE`r ESLrTATE) lb
lbeo&  1570/b                   E LA  IDDL? I B       S IaDOLE Ict
ADJUSTED EN70LL'/ T RATIOS
P1n1ART:  TOTAL                  95.0        84.0       93.0            105.0                    1O2.Z
MLALE                  97 ".d     8i          93.0Ls           106.3                    10i.2
FE:%LE                 93.0      4d1;t        93.9             103.6                     97.9
SECOWART: TTAL                    11.0       26.0        32.O/g,b         40.u                     56_5
:MW                    L1.0       26.,        29.0ogf           3a.6                     63.4
fEXALi                 10.0       27.0        3 ;.a.l           41.2                    .9
VOCATIONAL (: OF SECO.NDWARY)       IL8o       16.7        59.2/g.h         34.u                     22.4
PUPIL--ZEfAER Ano
PKLMAAY                          33.0        25.0       26.0              30.7                     24.7
SECOSaaRY                        13.u        13.0        14.0/h           lo.7                     22.1
ADULT LITrEAC  RATE (:)            61.0        6D_2        760U             79.5                     69.7
PASSESEA CARS/TOSAND POP            7.6        16.6        50.1             45.6                     52.9
RADIO RECEIVE'S/T /USAD POP        65.4       108.4       169.3            228.2                    165.5
TV RECEIVERS/IHOtSASD YOP           16_5       64.3       122.7            LO083                    124-Z
xSiSPaPEa (-DAILY CEEitAL
ISNTeESr) CracRAuATs
PER nEOUSaSD POPULATION           39.1        35.6       44.6/b            64.1                     96.3
CIXERl ANSSAL ATTESEAsCEICAPITA     4.4         2.0         I 9/h            2.9                      2.9
TOTAL LAOB   FORCE (TDUS)       23326.0    30611.0    35254.0                 _
F-IAZ (PEacsEN)                  17.2        20.1       28.5              24.6                     34.5
AURICULTURE (PERCENT)            51.9        45.6        29.9             31.3                     40.7
INOUlSaT  (PERCENT)              14.8        18.3       24.4              23.9                     23.4
PARTICIEPTIOS RATE (PERCET)
TiZAL                            32.1        31.7       29.3              31.3                     42.0
SALE                             52.7        50.3        50.9             49.A                     55.2
FEMLE                            11.2        12.8        14.1             14.8                     29.1
ECONOSID OEPEXDESECY RATIO          1.4         1.4         1-5              1.4                      0.9
ICO  DKSlAlBlION
PERCEST OF PiIIVAIS LNCOME
RECEIVEJ AT
dIGdEST 5 OF tlOUSELDS           ..
dlCdESS 201 UF nOSEfOLoS          0.0        63.5        62.01c             *-                       *-
LOWEST ZOZ OF HOUSEhOLDS          3.o         3.2         2.8Sc'
LOWEST 4U1 OF OIUSEMOLDS         10.u         9.U        9-4&7_
tMM    TAWAFTr GS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVEATY I.NC2SE
LEVEL (USS PEA CAPITA)
URBAS                              __          _.          .             289.8
RURAL                              ._          ..       150.0/c          184.5
ESTUQTWO RELATIVE FOVEA? ICE
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..       465.0/d          519.8
aURAL                              ..          ..       332.07W          372.1                    409.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVER?! INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN'                                          ''''      
RIRAL                              ..
-   ITstV !..R 
Nor? AVAILABLE
rOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a The group averages for each indicator are populatlon--eighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries song the
Ladlcators depends on availabilicy of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted. -Data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -Daca for 1970- between 1969 and
1971: and data for tosc Recent Estimate  bet.ueen 1979 ano 1981_
/c  1975; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1974; jf Begilnnig 1973 primary and secondary educatlon cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17
instead of 7-1Onad 11-fl-tm earlIer years; therefore most recent estliates are not comparable with eariLer data;
/h 1978.
Hay 1983



10S2aoo    -i                                                                                                                                        VW20l00lA1U2  0  -T.aJd
oo5n(*ai 100 52041.01 )o0022                                    2~~~~~~~~16.0 o ael A.tO2o        61 - _3-  Aq   al   2.. 025b 
0*151010 020) 101301 POt 20005                           ;.   ...~*  ,~onp- so e.-  inoa.w ~0-    ~                qs ~ioo,  4'
-so.'~~~P
030A 012--i p -I.  *'u i-i a-, -"s...o.. n26 [33-  '4. 20-Ao                             0      o214301~0   1o  35 P_--*1333 0  (1 00d 4305500
02O0)30   *n.o300*25120 *  13ol  e~~~4                 0.30                   00   OsJ.        126  -2-133  *3  0.52-  410  A10  v20:2
ssa) 1-2b603fl                                        ;o. os-.-cn-ion.(ys3                                    T 5A   1)11 )a  ;.  51
,1OO -1 nla-ardO.  -to -SP "      P  A-l;-"PO    l3    3  -(5020032  0 515305  332.  Jo -
'00102  - 0216 2000  153b  -n    25320                                                                                                          V,* 3211A0C50*'  lltol3026    21leit04   0024  So * .iof
1.33061 W20  32b03  ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ Xl,*I206
oOl1.102C110 in!Q:bl-.1
-P--- -%a 2                         _;*)) 001  01106                           053S  W,Ut  .2n.j  -P. 304p.  102J n_.j otOons04                   0 J.3
-250W   .)o10 .390 i'nOOVISSd so3 o.  -           -xopatoa   Olooig2d Ilan    0.  Iso    1512l 1.o3a   -S.  l0113
:A                                                      6~~~~0300  052021   i   b105052l2W    6    sd pS.0,  5   00100 OR--   a. -tozd                       -T"S  3
0025 0120221304'I       -n-902  Sits.:    1p        35. ool  o-u c                                      Or1050   '- 10.003  fTns,. otoi  or -en   %...    ..4  IT-0
L41oi,21na  tton' j  onn40   51006  .o sa  pst      os2o1spio                p.   01,5  03   r            4P34o;.4pn.oi  2  0o O
a 0f3312o.o4- 01055  50  000 .010)- 425.5)2530202120                                 0500   010   21) -ft*   o22   lpAn,    nO;R 2J. 4. 
0015235*'. %1)352053   01o0 0  0253  52 .   ()s324  2.205                     20   0   ns 01 OsloodIs -poo   -0t1040   .1330o2 e30P T-. 100_ -
T-PIO;00  01310000 1      5533  060  125  3500025   00205oqn  pq50032i                                                      -     -01-15 112    e112
0050)  0b0-4123"      5~50   0110 20lloo1003;.0 flSt  23 sI0o  00010*0:14.  WeD 23_0 2510510  Si_..b
TO                        P.Amd-    W.                                 Jd..      &I1350                  J=00P   J0
--A -09                Jle   W    .1I1o.Olboqlo   ~   o233  flJo..  00200   .0
,-.   o on:, ifis  1001 203.   04  512.Adn.  01i ATp   20                   We P-5  0002bot'na               010    o    10 30J0-         003  200
50030s0 .50O000                           P.-..2.21003  00523  .0...1o030  300-0.*45.1-0000400.   oi   3
-.-20025216510 =       *152I 42 -::  A11T-; 10012003 a.5402 .d 00 021.05 1*-w0-0s1 55.
35-0200 00035-  01-  2.301  0203  5)  2.1l    VIP; 01 ~00                     ao.o  02222 IO-   - 0500o   103   0.33434  - 3010201  .12l-
"a Irv -      P-f            15b&S12-                         i.30133   w  .03b--J0  5.3000 A0IR0-                        -       -
_Td_  T-Oi l-         M     T, = ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~42  3*300130    -l   -   OOe-1.055iO   52 6131C 0103
00(32oW  353  M25p.) "02P100001      2002)30                        13 n0130 J0 0023    -.3P I0-    -   I2.0-(09035003440
2501  01-00                              -1-831~20030241 04240:  ; .001044 o*
-50  00 0  0062.00  000- 0 P1119 1b0j300000   e 30034-90 11050020  2405310000    1002- (5232) -00462 d3300..140
0110100*00905100:-  300A 0  We.I  -*s134 -   25    25%.-1240                                                            010  101500!-025  1100
-5o5125212o51 so,om. jo o2oooondsl 00.30 Air-.  30310410 50 t*002o02304 0* 13535 PLO 0303 (02 1s31)si We (esobo 24~~~~~~. I  J  .0
-p.410   513.0.0042  3034  ot so.y5s2os.  "i5060     "ISo                        v12bO.olb    0002o9   Jf23- (..523co) v-0I0lb 000  -5302
10020 1003          ~           1011321)A0AJ                                      I 090053    M, 1110%3532 -0   IA.3*
*30  00.0000309000*i00  510003.1 202  1 1 1000 0All    400P."o  W   0i   00601  Mlos 10                                                               ,
sooos  Iosq  0  3504*1    b103  We*p   '1051 t- 101ll 0510                                                              *1202o O I       LG .100010 0012` 040
ono  002  11)23   620, 0  30 - 01J 6 0T30 010404    02010                     i        32)30  032'3001ac   oS200I  011,.*-S.     0ls-&3 300002  30
P--A2)00  1023  o.200100   02001  OsbaI  62001242p3    00003.-10   0112
-ft010  T."- IT. am    P -10110,' J001. 1040     o0030  .30134-e20o2p*iCA  SO  5  00   2.00P501)0000202144
AX-30  3- -13"    _   001204   .f-r .3  v-on                    5o  212.5 302)  -1.* 3541500  021 l0100ou s 0322.30*
.111 I    n-'T_-1l2..   0119100W                     o2     00)0                       ooo.f .02.0...           101101.*    e  )120  3   5122
S2500so 00 0313024010102!02 21052201 0215  21105P15002204203         01*0*0 23*0 floloo  001)02T 23200  00)  -000050  003--
- 1303We202352011 -4o01ja95*  005S0 ~l21333i 0  03)3           100  2.4   e 35b -    30-1           _ 0*009323   111-; 01 002120  000-I00
05.304 1024025300           *1*351 3026)1226-gzt-   A 101111-; 2'5 0i20 --so
We 00s220s1020000-.s00 33'120  05011100C           p--- -45002403      Jl.a                       -: t  0111600  2so,.s  351? -po A. We-150 S.00   31
1000000   0120 0.3000000000 10020003304.00304 o               .) s&. J. 02 2,220              ~ 2...012.32  20   -oolco .51  0100. 15
1033 pO   230   021 -191*002. 30  030134 1024V0  3001  5100.0000  1001 We -101  0250  b0*- 200  W0
0011 2 i30s06)240592.0 00-10s ,V-.                                                               J0000-l   0
35205  42102100 .eP102 3- .030fls2042 1030  a (0,201  -010140
-1a*.3   e00240  1101f01014O   310120: z.100   -00130                                       "050-   0041  We 2'I0T.02401
0200304102101220 353   05111205 1)110 0*5523 P1001K 0   oo)2210.330.010*tO  5  0P-~ 1(312321                                                    .,*GI00 'We
*                   We 00110~~~~~~~d 90Inws30 t.1s4-   350*01     (  P0s    533p  P-..0    0210jn0tss    590   000 lbi.   0101   e10143. 3
1021000  q 00) 00~So40 12 p.3010~2*304  00 002*5  1021201fl0) 3501030*00  03..3.30 12    - l10  02.    01   n- 5055
We 6013006 510A201an0  AT - "  3-0214-a I10300                                         I-,T= 01 20S 5C) ssoo
Pj~*f 50i2-fl05     133W  'p015   1d1-*     -.'a 100 10223*.      0013l040                                                                        2-0140-02  We 010
.rq z-~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~0J101.  ls.04 1023~10 3 233*0210W  45  Oio040)3 *
Wet00030 1MR.     03   0030  o.2002T*3.02_0305120  W  500410*00040  11030.  132`0300fo)0,32  3 53020  -10030)32
-00)0.43-340  4e P093-P 001)l04* W;-rdo*o~W 0ii                                                                                           .O--010033*
A.Vi-v-  J.  11-b OOn"."d                   -0061 :-.Q-  5-n-I  P-          M-.  I.-.Id-~~~-000352300550.
001  &532-     1  30 4-33.3 00o     15 e-0x20  00   0   00010120  0.2*001-4403   2030 J.c .lo,0o35 *2535353 0- 4   (00122013
.5213 3-.b110-  3-;T-32   5* 00020   004301               T,l01051W -233 p.s231-      SOI    o.'4oC03203                    -T&3  0020  00  20025 an5025p d220
26T,   4531-   106  5223030320e22o   o21  22020 oo..0S.                                 We1.300-2)4200  60   t -300Ils)23  011 ill *30 0003  3325.b5
013 A.023'.  5526       03  0 020   C   000 -.VT010*10  01- .3 05-2S*  203- 11    90I0J 010- *3p.Z2.11000 -92-3002  30001 ft5  0012   10
23,03032401 1X-05 101 SRD:121-n
S JO IC *9fa
IXI 4NV-9Z 



AIM= I
-29 -                                                           Pae 4sf 5
tAlUlXC I80ICAO8 e
Population    : 120.5 million (1981)
IIP Per Cpitca: US52.220 (1981)
Indicator                               Amout                     Av. age lamsa Increase (S)                Skare of 0P at Market Price  (Z3
(llio  US5 oCrrt)                  (at Constant 1970 Prices)                      (at Current Prices)
19- 3 /             I965-70    1970-75   1975-40    1981-46            197C      1175      1983 bI
VaCtinnal Accounts
Gross Domstic Product /                         33S.500                7.7      10.6        6.9        1.0           100.0      100.0      100.0
AgrIculture                                    45.610                1.9        5.7       4.7        2.8            10.2       10.9       13.8
Industry                                      106.770               ;.Z       11.6        7.6       -2.0            35.8       37.2       31.7
SerIee                                        180.20                8.0       10.7        6.8        2.1            54.0       5319       54.5
Cumsuqtion                                      264.730               7.7        9.8        5.7        0.5            77.8       76.6      80.1
GrDos In- esetaet                                58.80                9.4        14.6       5.2        0.1            22.7       21.3       17.8
Exporrt of Goods and IS                          23.730               8.Z       13.2        7.3        4.3             6.7        7.5        7.2
Isporte of Good. nd DFS                          19.600              14.5       17.2        2.8       -3.9             7.2       11.8       5.9
Gro DomastIc Sa-ogs                              48.5e0               7.9        12.9       6.1        I.8            22.2       23.4      14.7
A_not                  Avero  Ansal Increase (2)            CoMpoestior of Merhandise Trade (2)
(Million USS Current)     _    (At Co_ntant 1970 rcs)                      (at Cutret Priem)
19H3               1970-75        1975-BO     I198-8                3970        1975       1983
1erchandiee Trade
Merchandise Exports                             21.899              11.1           7.7            2.8                iOO.o        100.0      100.0
Pri_sry c                                    1060J              B.3            1.1            0.8                  76.7       62.7       48.4
lanofactures dl                               11*296             2B.2           18.2            5.6                  22.5        34.8      51.6
Mercbhadise Imports                             15.4ZS              14.8          -3.3            1.2                 100.0       100.0     100.0
Food (cereals)                                   968             -6.7           17.5            B.8                   4.5         3.0       6.3
Petrole.                                       8.179              7.6            4.3          -13.0                  11.2       25.4       53.0
Msdhinery And Equipment .1                     2.505              15.2          -7.5            2.0                  36.2        32.2      16.2
Otber                                          3.777             28.4           -1.9            4.3                  48.1        39.4      24.5
1975         3976          1977          1978         1979          1980         1981        1982       1983
Prcead T ero f Trade
CDP Deflstor (1970 - I10)             3C5.1         "44.3        632.7         892.5       3.39.4       2724.6    5.6Y6.S   11.1088    28.272.4
rachage Rate (Cr5 5)                    8.1          10.6         14.1          18.1          26.9          52.7        93.1       180.0      577.1
Export Price Index (1970 - 100)       176.0         192.0        226.0         228.0         266.0         290.0       252.0       220.0        n.e
Import Price Index (1970 - 100)       242.0         75:.o        286.0         317.0         389.0         431.0       474.0       522.0        D8.
Term of trade Kndex (1970 - 100)       72.0          75.0         79.0          72.0          68.0          67.0        53.0       42.0         n.e
As Z of CGM_
(at Currant Cruzeiro prime)
190           1915            1979           1980 J       1911 LI Agji
P-blic Finntc (Ceatral Covernest)
Current eewe                                                              16.6           19.8            20.8            20.1         18.9    21.2
Currmen ExPendture                                                        14.4           15.8            17.6           19.8         20.2    25.4
Surplu.3 C.) or deficit (                                                  2.2            4.0             3.2             0.3        -1.4      4.2
Capital Expenditure                                                        2.6            3.8             3.7            6.1          3.5      3.4
Financing (Met)                                                            0.4           -0.2             0.5            3.9          1.9      7.6
1965-70         1970-75          1976-t0             1981-86
Other Indicators
GM1 Growth Rate (Z)                                                       7.7             10.7              6.6                0.9
GNIP per Capta Growth Rlte (-)                                            4.6              7.7              *.0                -1.6
* oErly Cnonuwti oo Crouth late (2)                                       7.2              8.7              6.8                -
103                                                                       2.9              2.2             4.3                18.3
Marginal Savnsla Ite f1                                                  20.5             27.9              7.8                0.5
Iqort lasticity  f/                                                       2.2              1.6            -0.1                 4.5
It  At _rtket ptices; components ar  ne- dosestic producte expressed at faccor comt and will no add due to exclusIon of depreciation and lodirect
taxes less s"bsidies.
bl  Etlatl .
eJ  Includes -Cffe. bases aed salable), other Sgicualtrai prodct. and minerals.
dl  Incluode moufec ured an  seml-pruearseo products.
a!  ICIdds e ransportatlon 1ntearils.
fJ  The 1981-86 projectIons are coaculated using the leat square  setbod.
zi  1980-19B2 lelude gOvrnt azpnditureo effected threoh the monetary budgat and somm,   or foveroent funds. as sell as tranfers to tbe
federal eaterprise.
Source: CoUjantura Econalca. ICT; 8eo  Central do *rail: Braxll Scandard Model (aorld lak).                                             Ma 30. 1984



lILAC Or P413075. USOmL CapiTaL An    P                                                                          I     I
1.ltbo   25.5 celtIc  (19615
OW VS: Ceplt.: 9352.20 (31633
3975       3976        3977       9171        1979       aND0        061            396       296  bI       3964      3IN1         396
Xet cwr. .60   ad oc-ce                             .702      4,.016     '4,037      .65        '40,09"    '42,3*      '41,173        '14.6110     -6.275      S   -5.0  3,0        -s,0n4
twet   R.1oo.                                86,70      30,226      32,320     32,63      33,244      20j23       23,291         20.264      21,099     2S.2m       26.84     31.731
te.of Icodo                                .12.210    -12,50    -12.023    -12,643    -36.064        -22,953    -22.0           -19.297     45,429    -34,394    -36,342    -20,401
Iefoote Iag                                    -1.711     -2.314      -2,51G     -3.217      -4,623     -4.423      -9,541        -12.408    -10,348    -.13.86      -32,99    -132,13
let eta on latero.. popeema)'P  (4,4965    (-1.6K)    ('4,302)    -2,496)    (-.4153)   (-4,211)   (.9.922)  (-412.69)   L- 9.3312)  t40.842)  (411.131) (-33*22)
lee oorf.etr nercitee               ~~~~~-3.425  -I,574     -.476     -I_W0$      -2.178     -3,320      -2,337         -2.260      4,460      -2,696      -3.209    -3,13
let trbofor  bi                                        2           3          -          73          to        IsN         397              -           ----
Corrct -teme k.la                                 -4.10       4,037       -4.037     -6,0l3    -30oa21     -12.196    -30,06          -14.630      46.278     -5,660      -5,300    -3.034
Ditto peteate 3e.cuit Cl92                                       159         810      3.071       3,493       3,321.0    3.4999 "I0                              410 Goo0               132
S03. too. loot)                                    4.630       5,342      5,430      10.036      5.297       3,475.0      9,453 31      6.444      1.47,       7,626      1,14       4.472
Otebor.e.                                        (1.162)    (3.3491     (9M5)   13.164)   (33.723)   (30,4603    (374393            (133,777)   (24.G60)   (16.3401    15.6443    (5.84233
~~re1oat1..                      (-2.3525    (~~~~~~~~-2.6355    (-3,6333    (1.42144  (-4.4333    (-4.410.03  (-7.0565  (7.4333)   ('9,391)   (4,68123   (-30.2673  (-1434049
prazIIta  loo  ebraa  (e                            -190        .246       '267        -357       .430         414        402            '396       .40         '400        450     -3.400
Octer iata   o t. d21                                            914      -1.526       -455         626      4.845       t1,33          4,011         162       '400         649         0
Clms totnt. (-Ic-.)ceMI                             910      -3,362       .430      -4,262      3.233       1,221       -48            4,000          0      -2.50        -353        1773
l-lt,retlc, Saneo  1                                 4,043       6,544       7,234     21.815      9.69        6.913       7,40            ,40        3 ,400.a   3.600       .1.35     4,924
Rst.a. ante .1 tweet. 01                             4          6.3         7.2        10.3        6.4         3.6        4.1             2.2        2.948                  *.0        4.0
T-nR 147 ;rdelC eotedogad dlolered                 23.255     25,403      36,603     664,42      31.34      54.845      63.632         70.400
PathIr .4  pob1lc  goorstod                      133706     37,369      23,19      30,26       25,176     ujimG       43.620         473.16
Oft rl  care                                   3,919      4,4231      4,717      5,403       5,36       6.416       7.244          5,371
lIft                                         (1,0935    (1.2173    (3,413)    (1.602)    (1,6273      0,.0693    (223193         (2,7245
Other                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~(2,6463  (321236  (3,30s3    (3,719)    (4,5622  (4.3475    (4.525)      (5,463)
Prlcce. eearcee                     5~~~~~~~~.747  32,912  34,573B    23,035     39,569     33,044      34,371         5,433
Pricote eoow.or.tt.ed                5,3~~~~92"  33,123    133003      34,322     13504       36,605     39,792          22.031
todleborod ant (rebize eelp                         3,371      6,620       6,43      30,0        12.46      34,6031     14.093         15,067
repl geo  ilehr.ee ef FOL? bee                      6,963      5,290       9,26      35,366      31.726     12,30       13.01          32,759
Pebllc .0d pb33.ty ertei3.160                                6,921       3,422     30,316       9.122      4,893       3.197          7,933
Oftfitta  aWar  tai                               426        401         169         "a0        446         3           26t           670
1530                                ~~~~       ~~~~        ~~~~       ~~230  373  296  V7s  3  361        352            6233
Other aletlataral                    119~~~~~~It  III       SI         116         306        112         I"             236
?rlnce ocercoo                     2,993~~~~~Z."  4.231   4,342       9,236      *,i97       7*692      6,393           6,434
Print, ooc-geormaeecd               ~~~~~~3,394  3,239     2.843       S.034      2,576       3,362      6,063           4.644
belt Seine.
T-ea 4.5. cnn .. rma                               4.193      4,332       5.442     60l2u       33,37      133368      14.866         16,.69
Kot-n  C1-e                                     (1,477)    (3,423)    (3,451      (2,4571    (31.533     (3,4125     (7,175)        (9,294
re  nt  Zc    f at  er. of 009                   43.0        25.7       42.3        MA.        64.6        60.0       75.             73.6
Payrot a.1 ef COP                                     2,9         2.4        3.0         3.7        4.3         4,8         3.4            1.2
Aceas eerc  v..6  co ee"blle deli (Z3 if                6.?         7,4         6.3        9.9        33,2       1223        15.2           13.1
OfftetaI eareoc                         ~~~~        ~~~~       ~~~7,7  7.9  5.0  7.5   8.3         9.3        5,6            -
Aceroe ooenet f -  o.ooee ieae                      9,0        13,3       20,0        36.0       33.5         9,6        9.7             3.0
003l.IaIsen                                           15,4       36.3        16,1I      34.1        34.0       12,9        133,8
rn_-er-                                                7,0        9.3        5.7         9.3        31.         5.7         3.9-
IBID SfITeral                           ~~~~        ~~~~       ~~~4.7  4,3  4-1  3.4   3,6        3,6         1.6            3.9
in il.hreaoeeolrecalfooe i.b.r,    (3          3.5         2.         5.2         1.         2.4         1.6R       1.6            4.
105daLb nlst     ildlert    2                        .           .         3.7         2.7        22          2.3        2.2            2.3
Debt Stroter                                                      A -   ekef tcad MAL d,t  39t62
loewly crcetre .393. debt atceaiie
!Et,rilcdo  ftella 3. 7ooI'l3,
bm  L.- -a M.- 1--                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Apr11 17, 3604
.J O1~19  treecec    -efIt..     E  -       f~       -.
1j 1ololag geld cci dollar eotlgale edot-cta tbreog 1163.
I/ leclci.  hrt    i breee  eetlg
4, trol  eeAr  cei2 (srld 3.45.
loSera  Ieer (Cette  do les&I; 2cerol Debt oa  1971.62 (Z"S); VW.



- 31 -                           ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATSHENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1984)
Amount less Undis-
Loan #   Year           Borrower                   Purpose        Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
Sixty-two loans fully disbursed                                      2,376.7
1008     1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do           Power                   81.0        1.2
Sao Francisco - CHESF
1075     1975 Brazil                            Roads                  110.0        8.3
1151     1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                 95.0        2.4
1152     1975 Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                  60.0       13.9
1171     1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista       Railways                75.0        0.2
1195     1976 Brazil                            Rural Development       12.0        4.0
1207     1976  Brazil                           Feeder Roads            55.0        3.0
1317     1976 Brazil                            Agro-Industry           83.0       29.2
1362     1977  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development       42.0        4.1
1406     1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer              52.0         .5
1411     1977  Fertilizantes Vale do Rio        Fertilizer              55.0        1.2
Grande S.A. - VALEFERTIL
1452     1977  Brazil                           Education               32.0       14.8
1488     1977 Brazil                            Rural Development       11.0        3.7
1525     1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Sewerage               110.0       58.3
1537     1978  Brazil                           Rural Development       24.0       16.5
1538     1978  ELETROBRAS                       Power                  130.0       26.7
1557     1978 Brazil                            Roads                  114.0       41.8
1562     1978  COPESUL                          Petrochemicals          85.0        1.1
1563     1978 Brazil                            Urban Transport         88.0        4.4
1568     1978  Brazil                           Agric. Extension       100.0       40.8
1589     1978 Brazil                            Rural Development       37.0       21.0
1654     1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Sites and Services      93.0       20.5
1656     1979 Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water and Sewerage    100.0        27.3
1714     1979  Brazil                           Rural Development       26.0       19.1
1720     1979  Brazil                           Urban Development       70.0       33.5
1721     1979  COPEL                            Power                  109.0       38.4
1728     1979 Brazil                            Rural Development       410.0      27.2
1729     1979  Brazil                           Irrigation              28.0       10.9
1730     1979 Brazil                            Roads                  110.0       47.8
1822     1980  Brazil/BNDE                      Pollution Control       58.0       57.0
1823     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           130.0       40.7
1824     1980  CEEF                             Power                  114.0       81.5
1839     1980 Brazil                            Urban Transport        159.0      126.9
1850     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           139.0       48.1
1867     1980  Brazil                           Education               32.0       24.0
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development       63.0       57.6
1895     1980  ELETROSUL                        Power                  125.0       96.3
1924     1981  Brazil                           Rural Development       56.0       36.3
1939     1981  ELETROBRAS                       Power                   54.0       47.0



- 32 -                                 ANNEK II
Page 2 of 3
A. SU*MARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1984)
Aoumt less Undis-
Loan 1   Year           Borrower                    Purpose       Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
1965     1981  EBTU                             Urban Transport         90.0       68.8
1970     1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           180.0      123.9
1989     1981  Brazil                           Alcohol Development   250.0       179.4
2015     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture             29.0       22.3
2016     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture             60.0       37.8
2060     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture             67.0       41.6
2061     1982  Brazil                           Health                  13.0        7.8
2062     1982  Brazil                           Highways               240,0      117 J
2116     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture             26.4       21.5
2138     1982  ELETROBRAS                       Power                  182.7      160.9
2163     1982  Brazil                           Agriculture             26.4       22.4
2170     1982  Brazil                           Urban Development      123.9      110.6
2177     1982  Brazil                           Rural Development       42.7       37.6
2193     1982  Brazil                           Urbean Development       8.9        7.5
2196     1982  CVRD                             Iroa Ore               304.5      176.2
2224     1982  Brazil                           Feeder Roads           154.0      137.7
2225     1982  BNDES                            Development BankIng   220.0       104.8
2249     1983  Banco Nacional da Babitacao      Water Supply           302.3      258.5
2268     1983  Brazil                           Agro-Industries        400.0      374.0
2269     1983  Brazil                           Rural Development      67.8        62.3
2343     1983  Brazil                           Urban Development       52.7       52.6
2347     1983  Brazil                           Export Development    352.1       206.1
2348     1983  Brazil                           Agriculture            303.0       77.4
2353     1983  Brazil                           Agriculture            65.2        61.0
1729-1/1 1983  Brazil                           Agriculture              7.7        7.7
2o060-17  1983  Brazil                          Agriculture            22.8        22.8
2364-1/T 1983  Eletrobras                       Power                  250.6      250.6
2365     1983  Eletrobras                       Power                 222.8       222.2
2366  /l  1983  Brazil                          Education               20.0       20.0
Total                                                9,419.1 /2
Of which hss been repaid to the Bank                 1,413.8
Total now outstanding                                8,005.3
Amout sold                               45.8
Of which has been repaid               45.8            0.0
Total now held by Bank                               8,005.3
Total undisbursed                                                4,130.6
11 Not yet effective.
/2 No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bankl/A financed projects in execution, which 5s updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



-3-                                                   AhIa 1I
Pape 3 of 3
B. S     D1Z OF I  DIP  E5S (as of  ,h 31, 1984)
Fiscal                                                                                                                          IAua,t In USS .31tm
Yewr                                       O b lI go r                                    ITe ofkIZU                         L         Equity    Total
1957                 SIm. do kSll Cla. de Electddade                                  Elearica Eqaipwat                       2.          -        2.00
1958                 O0l*waft. S. A. reluhse e P?V                                    Plilp  d PWer                            1.2         -        1.20
1958                 D. L R. Plastic. do Brad , S. A.                                  hLtcntie  Parta                         0.45        -        0.45
1958                 klIUy-Ouerlmxd do Brash. S. A. - Insatria e Cmrcio                mbtor Vdgcbm                            2.45        -       2.45
1959                 rAtda Meetia de C:taoo Plrtlud. S. A.                             GoEt                                    1.20        -        1.w
1959                 O      nian Ce1ulose, S. A.                                       Pulp                                    4.OD        -        4.00
1966/1968/l972       Am VIlla-rm. S. A.                                                Steed                                   8.0        1.93     9.93
1966/1969             Papel e Gluloase CarLomsp_ S. A.                                 Plbp NWPper                             3.78       3.41      7.19
1967/1972            Ultrafert,l. S. A. - lndmtrJn e Qm.cdo de Fetilfzates             Fertilzem                               8.22       33    11.25
196.                  PetropAquls Udao, S. A.                                          Petodmdmla                              5.50       L.B       8.36
1970                 Pjiolefnin, S. A. I .4jtrla e Godo                                Petzodmscul                             5.0        2.8      8.30
1971                 O,dtm., S. A. 1Mitria e CGro                                      PuCzodm1cais                            4.60       1.46      6.04
1971        Rl          o Grnde -C,wdade C       ulose do Su1l                         Plp                                     4.90        -        4.90
1972/1975/1981       Gwmth   de Ciuto Natinl do  lvA                                   Cint                                  169.14       6.70    175.86
1973/1974/1977/1981   Caw da Sideturgc do G bmu     -                                  StIel                                  76.97      11.87    8S3
1973                 Captal .9azket D,ueloCt Fh.l - FCaP ital ibie  DevelW                                                    5.W0        -       5.0O
1973/1978/19I3       EapeB de Dbanolvlto de Recri  nawsl" - .UN, S. A.   Nldwl MldaW  ad Pinlg                                85.0        8.74    93.74
1974                  cIzsrlas Vil1azt, S. A.                                         Elevators ad  1Eajacrial. quiput        6.0         -        6.W
1974                 Fabrt de Tecdl& MtUapS. A.                                       Teatil.                                 31.OD       -       31.00
1975/1979            CQsim Carbn  Imdatrias Ltd.                                       Carbam lod                              6.18       1.19      7.37
1975                 Oaiteno Noode. S. A.                                              P _1a                                  10.00        -       10.00
1976                 Stista Iuajtria - Tedildo Natr, S. A.                            TeKeiles                                6.45       1.00      7.45
1976/19iD            Teu..r S. A. - Tem1l Catart       do lOote                       TK1                                     16.10        -       16.20
1977                 IFM S. A. Prulacton INcalutgm.                                    Iran ad AlIdzi Cathigs                 20.00        -       20.00
1977                 MLmramo Rio d, tEoare S. A.                                       Hlrj,                                  15.00        -       15.00
1978                 Cbetal Sideuwga S. A.                                             lro. and Stel                           7.00       3.00     10.00
1979                 Volvo do BEml Mbtono  t Vetculo, S. A.                            Motor VIudde                           60.0        5.27    65.27
19[g                  eIalgg do Nordete S. A. - Nbil                                   Raw 1 wN&  C..                          2.LW        -       2.00
198E                 D*e do Pae  S/A - Dwpia - Ailojra., Inutrla
e C.rdlo de 0]ezgsee                                          PaIaol1                                  3.50      1.00      4.50
19BO                 Villaes Tstrim de Hoe S. A. - V15                                 Iro  and Stee                           5.OD        -       5.
19EO                 PIPl - C    qhi     Ihaistrui doe PIbUlFm                         Cha1a and Pe tndm1ln                   15.         LOO    17.00
1960                 Destilaria Cioanrte S. A.                                         Chamis  ad Petzodm1cms                   -         0.25     0.25
1960                 Somrie Ainca Qiacm e IIrml S/A                                    FertIlzer                              35.0        6.00    41.00
1983                 Polle  Petzuulm                                                     C a  ad Pe Cizdaa                    43.W        5.tlD   46L.
1961                   eailpr                                                          Money ad Caital tdocet                   -         1.50      1.50
1961                 Capada   Boadlar de AgropewEma - MAP                              Food ad Food Promauz                    5.50       3.00      8.50
1981                 Tdaufo                                                            Qaals  ad Patrodadals                  46.0        4.OD    50.00
1962                 Cito CAIIE                                                        caint  1a Catnuotim   Hmteial          40.00       5.00    45.00
19E2                 Agiladsg S. A.                                                    3byC aital bzokt                       30D.        0.45    30.45
193                  CiS Rqpude de Pnrticdnoe  (CP)                                    lIey Capital, ibdoat                     -         0.11      0.11
1963                 Atlas 9r4iodifi                                                   Food ad Food Pomsah                    13.OD       -        13.00
1963                 GoWiUa Darde do Asa _CM1EA)                                       Palm Oil                                6.10       -         6.10
1963                 PISA - Papal de Tspwea S.A                                        Pulp a Paer Po&ats                     48.3        3.50    51.78
1963                 Soco,/S.A.                                                        Food ad Feod      1                     3.0        2.50      5.50
1963                 CItC                                                              Caax and Concsructio Natals            35.0o       -        35.
1964                 G0prid  AlmoIquitubcs Nadogl                                      Chmals ad Petradas                     20.OD       4.00    24.0O
Total Gxas tltd   aC                                                                          916.12      91.65  1.07.77
Lew Co,waltions. Trati,. R1myumt and Sei                                                      617.83      13,32   631.15
Torsl CMMemts HW Held by IR                                                                   298.29      78.33   376.62
Total U     rflsbucwa                                                                         173.73      13.7    187.44
AJpdl 16. 1984



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO STATE PRIMARY HEALTH CARE AND NATIONAL HEALTH POLICY STUDIES
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project : 2 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project : State of Sao Paulo and
Federal Government Agencies
with Bank assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank    :  1979
Cd)  Appraisal mission deparLure        : December 1982
(e)  Negotiations                       : May 1984
(f) Estimated Loan Effectiveness        : October 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) MOR to enter, no later than October 31, 1984, into anagreemeut,
satisfactory to the Bank, with CNRH, regarding assistance to be
provided by CNRH to MOH for purposer of implementing the program
of National Health Policy studies; terms of reference,
implementation arrangements and scheiule for these studies to be
satisfactory to the Bank; yearly stuay plans and policy actions
resulting from studies already completed to be reviewed with the
Bank (para. 51);
(b) The Municipality of Sao Paulo to complete the Itaquera hospital
by March 31, 1985; preliminary drawings for each of the five new
hospitals to be agreed with the Bank prior to proceeding with
preparation of final drawings for any of these hospitals (para.
55);



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c)  physicians and other staff employed by SES and SHS for project
health facilities to be normally employed on full-time basis and
pa'Ld adequate salaries and allowances in line with State Law No.
341 (para. 58);
(d) The State to consult the Bank on changes in the organization of
PMU or the project's five health areas (para. 58);
(e)  an evaluition report on Sao Paulo sub-project activities as of
June 30, 1986 to be submitted to the Bank no later than September
30, 1986, to serve as a basis for a mid-term review of project
activities (para. 59);
(f) the State to consult with the Bank on the financial and manpower
implications of new major investments in the health sector in
Greater Sao Paulo outside the scope of the project (para. 61);
(g) Conditions of Effectiveness for the Sao Paulo Sub-Project:
Execution of the Regulations and By-laws governing PMU and the
Project Account in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
and
Ch) Conditions of Disbursement for the Sao Paulo Sub-Project:
Ci) for investments in the Cotia hospital: satisfactory
agreement between the Borrower and the owners of the Cotia
hospital defining the terms and conditions of the
participation to and operation of said hospital under the
project;
(ii) for investments in any participating municipality:
adhesion of said municipality to the CRIS agreement under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and
(iii) for the initial deposit into the Sao Paulo Sub-Project's
Special Account, the deposit of Cr$2.0 billion in the
Project Account.



,-   t^_c _-s    ,,   ,    \                                           _BRAZIL                                                               ^
SOUTH AMERICA                                                       SAO PAULO HEALTH PROJECT
L-L       BRAZIL                                          Project Locations Within The Greater S5o Paulo Area
ptc',.         N.  - -~ -\                                                               I                                          '.\
4_,_.\                                JUNDIAI                           ->      f  wt.1j
N.  - c 
_ 8 \ VO~~~~~~~~RA (C- {  C 
FR    A D          S       - Pf                         SA_ TA ISAB'L
_\           >             \ 5 ~~~~~C  A        ROCKAR                                          t       AsEa                 _
~~~~~ 30 ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~      
^ ~~~~~-                                      t      ?   =-'*-  DF-':.F                      = -  Ie    R*9,
-- 288
plitApo,                                  i                       -. UfN=UD USE        I   Al284   A
IC ILO PAE YE PA
23-30                                                                                                   0
SA ROU        OL   s                         (           P                    X          i un   
ITAP EV~!SE'2,2E//p*|-I-  __
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0a :,  --i %V     /E\ 
vC~ ~~RPS  TAVAUC  IRES                                                  ZI                         \         
o~~~~             0  Ta Is 2  
KLOUIIIIE           ER GUA-CU
\.RA~~~ _S_E_
OL                         !                                                                      !



IBRD 17283R
_  \:  _r                        C K   IIIIAY T9S4
LTH PROJECT                                                                                        CMINAS
,reater 5-o Poulo Area                                                           sAO   PAULO
IGAaATA                          -;tAr:                  r S       7
PARANA                     ) _s
## , ~~SA NTA ISABEI L-  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/~~~~~~~o :w,             '   j 
ARUJ:/A                            !                             SANTA BRAN(A
- '~IAIA 5ZE  54S                                   5
QlAI MA. f0  
t    *   z  --       )) CJI DL/CRt,F                        c--       -.)
'\  SIMS_I  =5      \-         /           ~~~~~~~~~I GUJARAREMA  /               -23' Xr-
I                                           Is
*                        --.                                                  1t~     *-..f9   SLS~I
BIRITIBA MIRIM     EtSio  oInts
[1111]   Location  of  Po Ect  A r e  a
A  SeloectExed nsion Accetss    d
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oow oF50                                    Prec Arec ~ts-e
Rivers
-S-oc Paulo Muinicipality
----Limits of Greater So-o Raulo Area
- - -- -  Municipal Bound-rieS
1  -  - State Boundaries
-  International Boundaries
A83                                                               *600[   ooeno  roetA






