Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12627
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN 2447-BR)
DECEMBER 30, 1993
Human Resources Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ACRONYMS
AIS         -      Ac,es Integradas de Saude (Integrated Health Actions)
ASEQ        -      Assessoria Especial de Equipamentos (Special Advisory Office
for Equipment)
CADAIS      -      Centro de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento da Assistencia Integral a
Saude (Support Center for the Development of Integrated Health
Assistance)
CEDRHU    -        Centro de Desenvolvimento de Recursos Humanos (Human
Resource Development Center)
CIPLAN      -      Comissao Interinstitucional de Planejamento (Interinstitutional
Planning Commission)
CONASP    -        Conselho Consultivo de Administrac,o de Saude Previdenciiria
(Consultative Council for the Administration of Social Security)
CTE         -      Centro T&cnico de Edificacoes (Technical Center for Civil
Works)
ERSA        -      Escrit6rio Regional de Saide (Regional Health Oftfice)
ICB         -      International Competitive Bidding
INAMPS      -      Instituto Nacional de Assistencia Medica da Providencia Social
(National Institute for Medical Assistance and Social Security)
PIASS       -      Programa de Interiorizaqao de Ac,es de Saude e Saneamento
(Program for the Implementation in Interior Areas of Health and
Sanitation Activities)
PMS         -      Programa Metropolitano de Saude (Nletropolitan Health
Program)
PMU         -      Project Management Unit
PPA         -      Plano de Pronta Acao (Quick Action Plan)
SAR         -      Staff Appraisal Report
SES         -      Secretaria de Estado da Saude (State Health Secretariat)
SUDS        -      Sistemas Unificados e Descentralizados de Saude (Unified and
Decentralized Health Systems)
SUS         -      Sistema Unificado de Sauide (Unified Health System)
UBS         -      Unidade Basica de Saude (Basic Health Unit)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 30, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Brazil
Sao Paulo Basic Health Project (Loan 2447-BR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Brazil Sao Paulo Basic Health Project (Loan
2447-BR) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. Part II was prepared
by the Borrower. It highlights the limited focus of Bank supervision missions on institutional and
policy issues.
This project aimed to improve health status and cost-effectiveness of health services, in some
neglected districts of Greater Sao Paulo. This was to be done through institutional development,
manpower training, and the upgrading or constructing of facilities, building upon sectoral reform
initiatives then under way. Implementation was very slow, partly because of disagreement with the
Bank over procedures for international competitive bidding. While the construction component was
eventually completed, changes in governments were accompanied by changes in health strategy that
adversely affected project results.
Overall, project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory, institutional development as negligible, and
sustainability of results achieved as uncertain.  This said, the visibility of the projects had the
paradoxical effect of inducing basic policy changes in Sao Paulo - outside the scope of the project.
Furthermore, the project produced significant benefits in terms of training.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wihout World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 2447-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ................................................. i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................................... ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity ...................................... 1
B.    Background ........................................ 1
C.    Project Objectives and Description .......................... 1
D.    Project Design and Organization ........................... 2
E.    Project Implementation ................................. 2
-- Subsequent Sectoral Reform ........................ 3
-- Political/Management Considerations .................. 5
-- Problems Associated with the PMU ................... 6
-- Inexperience with Bank Procedures ................... 7
-- Staffing/Salary Difficulties ....................9.... 9
-- Cost Overruns ................................ 9
F.    Project Results ........   ............................. 9
-- Civil Works and Equipment ........................ 9
-- Project-related Health Improvements .................. 10
G.    Project Sustainability ................................. 11
H.   Bank Performance ................................... 12
I.    Borrower Performance ................................ 12
J.    Lessons Learned .................................... 13
Annex 1: Health Sector Reform Chronology .................. 15
Annex 2: SES and PMU Organizational Charts ................. 17
Annex 3:  Project-financed Training and Institutional
Development ............................. 20
Annex 4: Comparative Monthly Health Sector Salaries in
Sao Paulo   ............................... 21
Annex 5: Project Area Health Indicators ..................... 22
Annex 6:  Status of Project Facilities ....................... 24
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ... .... 27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ............................ 33
Table  1:  Related Bank Loans or Credits  .....................  33
Table 2:  Project Timetable   .............................  35
Table 3:  Schedule of Disbursements   .......................  36
Table 4:  Allocation of Loan Proceeds   ......................  37
Table 5: Status of Loan Covenants ...................... .  38
Table 6: Missions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .41
Table 7: Research and Studies Financed under Loan 2447-BR ....... .43



Project Completion Report
Sao Paulo Basic Health Project (Brazil)
(Loan No. 2447-BR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Sao Paulo Basic Health Project.
Loan No. 2447-BR was approved on June 30, 1984 in the amount of US$ 55.5 million. The
loan amount disbursed was US$ 55.4 million, with the final disbursement taking place in
1992. The Project was closed on June 30, 1992.
This PCR was prepared by the Human Resources Division of the Brazil, Peru and
Venezuela Department in the Latin America and Caribbean Region. Preparation of the
report was based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the record of the Board discussion of this
Project, the Loan Agreement, all material in the Bank's files pertinent to this Project and
discussions with Bank staff as well as SES and other Brazilian agencies and officials
associated with Project preparation and implementation.
Part II was completed by the Borrower, after review of a draft version of the PCR
(Parts I and III), and was forwarded to the Bank in June 1993.






ii
Project Completion Report
Sao Paulo Basic Health Project (Brazil)
(Loan No. 2447-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.   Introduction
1.    The Sao Paulo Basic Health Project was the second Bank-assisted health project in
Brazil and the first health loan in the State of Sao Paulo. The Project was appraised in
November and December 1982 and was approved on June 30, 1984. Total costs were
estimated at US$ 121.6 million equivalent, of which US$ 55.5 million was to be financed by
an IBRD loan (see Part III, Table 4). Project implementation required seven years, two
years longer than the original estimate. The revised Closing Date was June 30, 1992, as a
result of three extensions from the original Closing Date of June 30, 1989. The accounts
were closed on November 24, 1992, when the undisbursed balance of US$ 111,639.56
equivalent, including commitment charges on such amount, was canceled (see Part III, Table
4).
B.   Objectives and Project Content
2.    The general objectives of the Sao Paulo Basic Health Project were to: (i) improve
health status in five main target areas and nine health districts in Greater Sao Paulo; and (ii)
improve the cost-effectiveness of health services delivery within Greater Sao Paulo. These
objectives were to be obtained by means of a comprehensive range of activities, as follows:
(i) Institutional Development, which would provide training, technical assistance and research
funding in support of improved delivery, management, monitoring and evaluation capacity;
(ii) Manpower Development, which would provide broad-based training in both clinical and
administrative/management skills, in addition to establishing an SES "Human Resource
Center"; and (iii) Health Facilities Network Development, which would upgrade and furnish
identified basic health units (UBS) and hospitals within the Project Area.
3.    The Project sought to build upon and enhance sectoral reform initiatives then
underway in Brazil and in the State of Sao Paulo, with initial efforts focused on identified
peripheral areas of Greater Sao Paulo with shortcomings in health service accessibility and/or
quality. The Project hoped to introduce a viable "health module" that would simultaneously:
(i) integrate basic health services within a defined geographical area, ranging from the UBS
to the hospital level; (ii) coordinate activities of the various public agencies involved in
health service delivery; (iii) encourage the mobility of workers employed within the various



iii
"health modules", which would also develop suitable career paths and provide requisite
clinical/administrative training in line with the needs of the newly developed "health
modules"; and (iv) most importantly, promote sectoral equity and efficiency by encouraging
health consumers to utilize the UBS (to be suitably upgraded so as to ensure adequate
quality) as the entry point to the "health module".
C.    Implementation
4.    Project implementation was very slow. From Board approval to loan signing took
approximately six months (from March 1984 to December 1984), and from signing to
effectiveness took another seven months (from December 1984 to June 1985). While most
civil works and equipment were eventually provided, the Project encountered significant cost
overruns and delays in disbursement. In addition, protracted disagreement with the Bank as
to appropriate procedures for the preparation of international competitive bidding (ICB)
documents for hospital equipment stalled activities for almost one year, finally forcing the
Bank to partially suspend disbursements for a period of five months. Training, institutional
development and research activities all encountered serious disbursement difficulties.
5.    Implementation problems and delays were generally attributable to the following six
factors: (i) failure or inability of the Project to adapt originally conceived training and
institutional strengthening activities in support of major sector reforms which arose during
Project implementation; (ii) political considerations at the state and municipal level, including
partisan differences and efforts to redirect Project resources for political ends; (iii)
fragmentation of the Project Management Unit (PMU) responsibilities, which contributed to
serious dilution of Project cohesiveness; (iv) SES inexperience with Bank procedures,
exacerbated by a reluctance to utilize foreign consultants; (v) staffing and salary difficulties;
and (vi) significant cost overruns, particularly in the area of civil works.
D.    Project Results
6.    The Project resulted in the construction or upgrading of numerous hospitals and basic
health units (UBS's) which, although operational only on a part-time basis in some areas, are
providing basic health care in several peripheral areas of Greater Sao Paulo which previously
did not enjoy such services. All civil works anticipated in the SAR were eventually
completed, with the exception of: (i) ten UBS's still under construction; (ii) five UBS
upgradings that were never carried out (of which three were canceled and two were located
in buildings subsequently identified as sub-standard); and (iii) four new UBS constructions
which were canceled. In general, Project-assisted civil works were found by Bank
consultants to have been of a high standard.
7.    However, while the Project did serve in some measure as a catalyst to the significant
sector reforms which took place in the 1980s as well as to the structural reorganization of
SES, Project-financed training and institutional strengthening activities and the integrated
"health module" concept were not effectively redefined and redirected in support of these



iv
important changes. Moreover, although data from the Project area indicate ongoing
improvement in health status during the period of Project implementation, the specific health
impact of the Project itself is difficult to ascertain, since no discernible effort was made to
collect or analyze such information with specific reference to Project-assisted facilities.
E.    Sustainability
8.    The Project indirectly supported the impetus towards decentralization and integration
of health services in the Sao Paulo, processes which appear to have taken root in the State
and throughout Brazil. Long-term sustainability of Project-financed facilities, however, may
be constrained by: (a) the failure of the Project to anticipate in full the recurrent cost
implications of Project investments, including maintenance; (b) continuing staffing problems,
in part resulting from salary differentials; and (c) inadequate coordination between the State
and municipal health systems.
F.    Findings and Lessons
9.    Major findings and lessons are as follows:
(a)    While sectoral reform projects remain a valid area for Bank involvement,
successful implementation of such relatively complex activities demands
sustained Bank recognition of the need for the following: (i) continued active
support from key political actors, whose involvement should be secured, if
possible, with each change in administration; (ii) maintenance, in most cases,
of a "high-level" PMU, which should retain management control of all Project
activities, possess (or retain consultants capable of providing) high-quality
technical support, and enjoy open access to key political decision-makers; and
(iii) development of a detailed, phased and flexible implementation schedule.
(b)   As a complement to the Borrower activities described above, Bank
involvement in sectoral reform activities presumes: (i) recognition of the
necessarily dynamic nature of sectoral reform projects, and the attendant need
to accommodate, to the extent possible, subsequent shifts in Government
policies and priorities within Project design; and (ii) frequent and in-depth
supervision, as necessary to attain all of the above.
(c)   While sectoral reform, by its nature, presumes legislative change and the
development of appropriate training and institutional strengthening programs,
the risk remains -- as occurred in the Sao Paulo Basic Health Project -- that
civil works and equipment will disburse more quickly than other related
components. To that end, the Bank should condition disbursements in favor of
civil works and equipment against prior adoption of stipulated institutional
reforms, as is currently being attempted under the Northeast III Education
Project.



v
(d)   With regard to the PMU, the Bank should actively exercise its right to: (i)
review the qualifications and experience of PMU staff; and (ii) maintain the
overall integrity of the PMU, to guarantee both sustained high-level political
access and support as well as essential PMU management control over all
defined Project activities. Parameters of Project activity and PMU
responsibility should be adequately discussed with Government authorities.
While active Government cooperation and coordination with the PMU should
be encouraged, PMU functions should not be assumed by Government line
agencies without adequate preparation.
(e)   While sectoral reform projects typically involve many separate agencies, it is
important that: (i) the number of such agencies be kept to a manageable level;
and (ii) mechanisms for sustained coordination among such agencies be
developed and appropriately monitored.
(f)    Monitorable indicators of project performance and benefits must be
accompanied by implementation of appropriate health information systems, to
improve the Borrower's capacity to collect, consolidate and analyze such data.
Presentation of such information in periodic progress reports serves as a useful
supplement to Bank supervision efforts.
(g)   Loan covenants must be: (i) limited in number; (ii) readily monitorable; (iii)
accurately reflected in supervision reports, in terms of Borrower compliance,
and (iv) more credibly enforced.
(h)   Both with specific reference to the State of Sao Paulo and throughout Brazil,
the Bank should support the operationalization of SUS and municipalized
health service delivery by helping relevant authorities to: (i) define more
clearly the exact responsibilities of, and reporting relationships between, the
"municfpios" and various State offices, including ERSA's; (ii) develop and
implement training and institutional development appropriate to the technical as
well as management/administrative needs of the "municfpios"; and (iii)
enhance transparency of sectoral financing, including efforts to improve the
correspondence between resource availability and service responsibilities at
each of the levels of the health delivery network.



I
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH PROJECT (LOAN NO. 2447-BR)
A.   Project Identity
1.          Project Name:     Sao Paulo Basic Health Project
Loan Number:      2447-BR
Region:           Latin America and Caribbean
Department:       LAI (Brazil, Peru and Venezuela)
Country:          Brazil
Division:         Human Resources
Sector:           Health
B.   Background
2.          The Sao Paulo Basic Health Project (Loan No. 2447-BR) was approved by the
Board on June 30, 1984 in the amount of US$ 55.5 million."' The Project represented the
second health sector project to be undertaken in Brazil, and the Bank's first contact with the
State Health Secretariat (SES) of the State of Sao Paulo.
3.          At the time of Project preparation, Bank lending objectives placed emphasis on
the efficiency and equity of resource allocation within the social sectors. In light of the fact
that Brazil's relatively high health sector expenditures were still associated with poor (and
highly skewed) health indicators, the Bank aimed to develop a "model" health project in the
influential State of Sao Paulo which would combine "traditional" hardware inputs with
significant structural reforms of the SES. Upon successful implementation in the State of
Sao Paulo, it was hoped that structural reform activities could then be replicated in other
Brazilian states.
C.   Project Objectives and Description
4.          The objectives of the Sao Paulo Basic Health Project, as stated in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR), were to: (i) improve health status in five main target areas and nine
health districts in Greater Sao Paulo; and (ii) improve the cost-effectiveness of health services
delivery generally within Greater Sao Paulo. These objectives were to be obtained by means
of a broad range of inputs, assembled within the following three categories: (i) Institutional
Development, which would provide training, technical assistance and research funding in
support of improved delivery, management, monitoring and evaluation capacity; (ii)
Manpower Development, which would provide broad-based training in both clinical and
1/   Initially approved as a subcomponent of the Sao Paulo Basic Health Project (under a
separate Loan Agreement with the Federative Republic of Brazil), the National Health
Studies Project (US$ 2.0 million) was subsequently identified as Loan No. 2448-BR.



2
administrative/management skills, in addition to setting up an SES "Human Resource
Center"; and (iii) Health Facilities Network Development, which would upgrade and provide
equipment and materials for selected basic health units (UBS) and hospitals within the Project
Area.
5.           The Project sought to build upon and enhance sectoral reform initiatives then
underway in Brazil and in the State of Sao Paulo.2' Initial efforts focused on peripheral
areas of Greater Sao Paulo with shortcomings in health delivery access and/or quality.
Above all, the Project hoped to introduce a viable "health module" that would
simultaneously: (i) integrate basic health services within a defined geographical area, ranging
from the UBS to the hospital level; (ii) coordinate activities of the various public agencies
involved in health service delivery; (iii) encourage the mobility of workers employed within
the various "health modules", which would also develop suitable career paths and provide
requisite clinical/administrative training in line with the needs of the newly developed "health
modules"; and (iv) most importantly, promote sectoral equity and efficiency by encouraging
health consumers to utilize the UBS (to be suitably upgraded so as to ensure adequate
quality) as the entry point to the "health module".
D.    Project Design and Organization
6.           The SAR of the Project correctly identifies the range of structural problems
inhibiting health service delivery in Greater Sao Paulo, including: (i) inequitable distribution
of resources, with peripheral areas marked by greatly reduced access and poor quality of
services, facilities and staff availability/skills; (ii) inefficient utilization of available
resources, as evidenced by the frequent recourse by health consumers to relatively high-cost
hospitals for many treatments which should be handled by less sophisticated facilities; and (c)
poor coordination, collaboration and communication among the numerous public and non-
public health providers active in Greater Sao Paulo. Project design ambitiously sought to
address all of these constraints, by means of a comprehensive range of inputs which would:
(i) in the first instance, provide hardware support and necessary training to identified
"underserved" areas in the urban periphery of Greater Sao Paulo; and (ii) provide training
and technical assistance in support of the more efficient "health modules", which would
represent a more extensive level of inter-facility and inter-institutional coordination than had
been previously attained.
E.    Project Implementation
7.           Project implementation was very slow. From Board approval to loan signing
took approximately six months (from March 1984 to December 1984), and from signing to
effectiveness took another seven months (from December 1984 to June 1985). While most
2/    A chronology of major sectoral reforms both before and during Project
implementation is presented in Annex 1.



3
civil works and equipment were eventually provided3', the Project encountered significant
cost overruns4' and delays in disbursement0' -- in addition, protracted disagreement with the
Bank as to appropriate procedures for the preparation of international competitive bidding
(ICB) documents for hospital equipment stalled activities for almost one year, finally forcing
the Bank to partially suspend disbursements for a period of five months (see para. 20).
Training, institutional development and research activities all encountered serious
disbursement difficulties (see paras. 14-15). The Closing Date for the Project was originally
scheduled for June 30, 1989, but was extended three times. The final Closing Date was June
30, 1992, more than eight years after Board approval.
8.           Implementation problems and delays were generally attributable to the
following six factors: (i) failure or inability of the Project to adapt originally conceived
training and institutional strengthening activities in support of major sector reforms which
arose during Project implementation; (ii) political considerations at the state and municipal
level, including partisan differences and efforts to redirect Project resources for political
ends; (iii) fragmentation of the Project Management Unit (PMU) responsibilities, which
contributed to serious dilution of Project cohesiveness; (iv) SES inexperience with Bank
procedures, exacerbated by a reluctance to utilize foreign consultants; (v) staffing and salary
difficulties; and (vi) significant cost overruns, particularly in civil works.
9.           Subsequent Sectoral Reform. Although the elaboration of the Sao Paulo Basic
Health Project did at least indirectly influence the decision of the State of Sao Paulo to
promote state-wide the principles of integrated, unified and decentralized health service, it
must also be noted that Project training, institutional strengthening and research activities
were not re-channeled in support of these reforms -- despite the similarity between the
original integrated "health module" concept and subsequent sector reforms. The adoption
statewide of similar policy of similar policy objectives may in some sense have compensated
for the gradual blurring of the Project's unique "identity"§'. However, by failing to redirect
Project activities in support of specific sectoral reforms, the Bank also reduced its potential
voice in the evolving sectoral dialogue.
10.          Specific sectoral reforms promoted by the Project SAR were essentially
overridden by three separate sectoral reforms which were announced during Project
3/    See para. 23 as well as Annex 6.
4/    See para. 22 and page 3 of Annex 6.
51    See Table 3, page 36.
6/    For instance, SES officials frequently refer to the Bank-financed Project as the
"Programa Metropolitano de Saude" (Metropolitan Health Program), although this
latter term actually refers to the broader SES initiative to which the Project
contributed.



4
implementation: (i) the initial SUDS (Unified and Decentralized Health System) reforms,
announced in 1987-1988; (ii) the subsequent SUS (Unified Health System) reforms,
announced in 1990; and (iii) the trend towards municipalization of services, as strongly
supported in the 1988 Constitution7'. In one sense, these three reforms represent the
culmination of the principles of decentralization, integration and unification which the Project
sought to implement within the Project area along the lines of the similar "health module"
concept. In some aspects, most notably the effective merger of INAMPS and SES as a result
of SUDS, these reforms considerably exceeded the Project's more limited objectives. The
importance of the Project to Sao Paulo is evidenced by the fact that the experience of
designing the Project clearly influenced the 1987 restructuring of SES -- previously organized
along the lines of four separate "Coordinating Divisions" (i.e., Hospitals, Community
Health, Support Services and Mental Health) which interacted minimally, SES was
reorganized in 1987 along integrated lines (see Annex 2), with the creation of an
intermediary administrative level (specifically, the Regional Health Offices, or "ERSA's"),
between the level of SES and the local jurisdictions, or "municfpios". Essentially, creation
of the ERSA's, within which services which had previously been managed separately by the
four "Coordinating Divisions" of SES would henceforth be jointly administered, indicated
adoption throughout the State of an integrated health delivery model quite similar to the
Project's original "health modules".
11.          While the training and institutional strengthening needs of the State were large
as a result of the decision to adopt state-wide the integrated health service delivery model,
the Bank lost an opportunity to influence development of such programs when it failed to
encourage SES to presented a comprehensive "substitute" training and institutional
development program. Although funds were disbursed against individual training and
institutional development throughout Project implementation, it must be noted that: (i)
disbursements were heavily concentrated at the end of the Project implementation period,
with virtually no disbursements in the early years; and (ii) disbursements occurred on an ad
hoc basis, with "approved" training activities often demonstrating little relationship to stated
Project objectives.Y' However, in all fairness, while the Bank must shoulder considerable
responsibility for failing to "fine tune" training and institutional strengthening activities in
light of subsequent policy reforms, the considerable obstacles to the undertaking of such a
Project "redirection" must also be recognized, most notably: (i) the lack of clear
implementation guidelines for SUDS, SUS and municipalization, which resulted in
considerable confusion at the federal, state and municipal levels; and (ii) inherent differences
7/    See Annex I for details of the succession of policy reforms which have taken place in
Brazil since the 1970's.
8/    Training and institutional strengthening activities financed by the Bank are listed in
Annex 3.



5
of the various policy reforms announced within a relatively short time frame.2' As such,
while the Bank might be faulted for not monitoring sectoral developments and participating
more actively in this evolving policy dialogue, the very frequency of policy change during
the period of Project implementation greatly complicated any chances which the Bank may
have had to constructively support these important sector reforms with Project resources.
12.          Political/Management Considerations. Confusion resulting from the advent of
SUDS, SUS and municipalization was exacerbated by: (i) the frequency of political and
administrative turnover within the State government, SES and the Project PMU; and (ii)
serious misunderstandings between State-level authorities and the representatives of the
various municipalities in Greater Sao Paulo responsible for assuming Project-assisted
facilities and activities. While State and SES officials understood and strongly supported
Project objectives during the period of preparation and early implementation, this situation
did not necessarily obtain under subsequent administrations, which were not actively involved
in Project preparation and were themselves often confused as to the relationship between the
Project and the subsequent policy reforms. Although the SAR clearly describes the Project
as a sectoral reform activity with significant emphasis on training and institutional
development, the effective distancing of later State and SES administrators from the period of
Project creation gave rise to the widespread notion that the "Bank Project" consisted
exclusively of civil works and equipment, which would be supplemented by a variety of State
support programs. This mistaken attitude took its most unfortunate form in 1987, when the
Health Secretary then in power effectively transferred responsibility for all Project training
and institutional strengthening from the PMU to existing State offices and programs (see also
para. 17).
13.          Moreover, while the SAR anticipated close coordination between SES and the
various municipalities which would assume responsibility for Project activities, this favorable
relationship did not come about. While officials from both the State and Municipality of Sao
Paulo supported the Project in its creative phase, this cooperation subsequently suffered
from: (i) the emergence of partisan differences between State and Municipal administrations;
and (ii) the aforementioned volatility of relative power enjoyed by State and municipal offices
as a result of the policy pronouncements made during the period of Project implementation.
Inability or unwillingness of State and Municipal authorities to agree on terms for
municipalization of services in the city of Sao Paulo (which remains the only municipality in
the State in which health services have not been decentralized), including five of the Project-
assisted hospitals, since it postponed the construction and/or operation of facilities.
14.          Politicization also served to impede effective implementation of: (i) training
9/    For example, while ERSA's were considerably strengthened under SUDS, the locus
of responsibility for management of the integrated health service delivery model
shifted sharply in favor of local jurisdictions ("municipios") as a result of SUS and
the 1988 Constitution.



6
and institutional strengthening activities, and (ii) Project-financed research and studies. It
was initially envisaged that the training and institutional strengthening activities outlined in
the SAR would begin soon after start-up of the Project and would be managed by a Project-
financed "Human Resources Center". However, virtually no disbursements were made
against these activities in the early years, nor was a distinct "Human Resources Center" ever
established. In practice, most Project-financed training and institutional strengthening
activities were closely linked to priority programs of the State Health Secretary, and were
routinely "approved" for Project financing by CEDRHU, the State organ retaining
responsibility for training functions after PMU responsibilities were "merged" with State
functions in 1987, however tenuous the linkage to original Project objectives. Bank
dissatisfaction with the very slow pace of disbursements for training and institutional
activities in the early years of Project implementation may have encouraged the Bank to be
less critical than it probably should have been of those training and institutional strengthening
activities which were eventually financed -- the bulk of these activities (more than half of
disbursements were for nurse auxiliary and community health worker training) were
excessively narrow and technical in orientation, with little connection to the development of
integrated management capacity that had been the Project's intended focus.
15.          As regards Project-financed research activities, the Bank should have insisted
on the designation of: (i) specific guidelines and criteria for reviewing proposals and
monitoring studies under execution; and (ii) mechanisms for proper communication between
the PMU and research coordinators on procedures for making expenditures. Largely for this
reason, early Project-financed research was relatively unfocused and had only a tenuous
connection to Project objectives (see Table 7 for a list of Project-financed studies). Bank
efforts after 1989 to improve management of Project-financed research and studies did result
in some improvement of quality. However, it must also be noted that: (i) this occurred very
late within the period of Project implementation; and (ii) no strong linkage was ever created
between Project-financed studies and those offices responsible for SES operations and policy-
making.
16.          Problems Associated with the PMU. The Bank's ability to monitor and/or
redirect Project activities throughout this period of policy flux was severely compromised by
shifts in the composition, responsibility and authority of the PMU. Envisaged in the SAR as
a relatively large unit with "high level" political access, which would rely on consultancy
support as required, the PMU's gradual loss of focus accompanied parallel developments
within SES. In 1987, as part of the above-mentioned restructuring of SES (see para. 10), the
PMU (which had already been reduced in size by an earlier administration) effectively lost
direct political access to the Office of the Secretary after its staff was "demoted" to the
"Macroregional" Office responsible for the Greater Sao Paulo area (see page 2 of Annex 2).
17.         Loss of direct access to the Office the Secretary was soon compounded by the
SES decision to merge the bulk of PMU functions with the responsibilities of existing SES
units. It was consequently decided to: (i) add responsibility for Project activities to the



7
already large workload of the SES Executive Secretary'"'; but also (ii) transfer day-to-day
implementation responsibilities to the Sao Paulo "Macroregional" Office and a range of State
units (e.g., CTE for civil works, ASEQ for equipment; CADAIS for institutional
development activities; CEDRHU for training activities, etc.). Serious problems resulting
from this dispersion of the PMU's responsibilities included the following: (i) reinforcement
of the notion that the Bank-financed Project consisted exclusively of civil works and
equipment, with institutional strengthening and training support to be provided fully through
parallel SES programs; (ii) worsening of Bank-SES communications and further time delays,
to the extent that the Bank was now forced to deal with a range of smaller SES units; and
(iii) faulty coordination between these many offices and that of the overburdened Executive
Secretary, who encountered increasing difficulty in monitoring the now widely dispersed
expenditures and requests for reimbursement. This situation obtained until 1990, when, with
active Bank encouragement, SES re-established a full-time Project Manager, still responsible
to the Executive Secretary."'
18.         In other situations, project implementation may be facilitated by reliance upon
existing Borrower administrative capacity or, as occurred in Sao Paulo, the reduction or
elimination of responsibilities of the originally constituted PMU, in light of subsequent policy
developments. However, in the case of the Sao Paulo Basic Health Project, this blurring of
Project identity complicated an already very troubled implementation experience. Failure to
maintain a strong and distinct PMU, and consequent reliance on the relatively weak
administrative capacity of the Borrower, served to: (i) reduce the Bank's voice and
opportunities for leverage in the evolving policy debate; (ii) seriously complicate efforts of
the Bank to monitor development in the Project area; (iii) contribute to disbursement for
training, institutional strengthening and research activities which in some cases had only
tenuous connection to original Project objectives; and (iv) reduce political interest in the
Project area itself.
19.         Inexprience with Bank Procedures and Reluctance to Engage Intemational
Consultants. PMU implementation capacity suffered after three international consultancies,
which had been engaged to assist the PMU in the areas of management, equipment and
construction, were allowed to lapse. The Borrower had agreed during Project preparation
that private firms should be contracted to: (i) carry out an extensive construction program;
(ii) assist in the procurement of related goods; and (ii) aid the PMU in technical and
administrative matters. However, subsequent administrations claimed that consultancies
duplicated existing State capacity and were too costly. In addition to the lapsing of these
10/   As shown in Annex 2, the Executive Secretary, in addition to overseeing the Project,
was also: (i) Director for the SES Technical Planning Group; (ii) Coordinator for the
SES Nucleus for Support to Projects; and (iii) Chief of the SES Planning and
Programming Unit.
11/   See page 3 of Annex 2.



8
three consulting contracts, the State also used this reasoning to deflect Bank suggestions that
separate consultants be engaged to revise the troubled Project training and research
components.
20.         Borrower inexperience with Bank procedures was most vividly displayed in the
serious problems encountered in the ICB procurement of hospital equipment, delays in the
delivery of which significantly postponed the operation of the Project-financed hospitals.
The bidding process for the initial package of hospital equipment commenced in 1988,
although delivery of equipment did not take place until 1992. Conditional Bank approval of
bidding documents was first extended in April 1988, although the Bank was subsequently
informed that the Borrower did not wish to publish the Invitation to Bid, but would draft new
documents to be submitted for Bank review. After the Bank once more approved submitted
bidding documents in July 1989, the Borrower raised legal objections to the use of English as
the governing language in Bank procurement documents, which were not accepted by the
Bank. After several versions of the bidding documents were submitted for Bank review
without inclusion of requested changes, procurement difficulties were noted as a serious
implementation problem during a supervision mission in November 1989. The Borrower's
request in early 1990 that a private hospital be allowed to carry out the ICB on the behalf of
SESU' was approved by the Bank, but resulted in further delays. Indication by the Bank of
its readiness by this point to consider suspension of disbursements appeared for a few months
to have resolved procurement difficulties. After bid opening was held in October and bid
evaluation was forwarded to the Bank, the Bank issued a "no objection" telex to contract
awards in November 1990. Subsequent Borrower attempts to annul contract awards (as
requested in a December 1990 telex to the Bank) were strongly resisted by the Bank, which,
as a result of Borrower failure to follow through on contract awards according to the terms
of the November 1990 "no objection" telex, partially suspended disbursements from February
1991 to June 1991, due to the Borrower's failure to carry out procurement with due
diligence'3' and cause all health facilities in the Project area to be efficiently operated and
maintained.2' Partial suspension was lifted after the Borrower announced that five of the
seven contracts awarded in November 1990 had been signed, partially in response to Bank
warnings that remaining loan funds could be canceled. Bidding for a subsequent package of
hospital equipment was conducted by SES itself without incident, on the basis of model
documents approved under the 1990 ICB disbursement.i'
12/  It was argued at the time that the private hospital could adhere to the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines, but that SES could not.
13/   Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (a).
14/   Loan Agreement, Section 4.04 (a).
15/   Procurement problems were increased by the refusal of the Borrower to engage a
procurement consultant, as advised by the Bank.



9
21.          Staffing/Salary Difficulties. Although the SAR claimed that "no problems are
expected in recruiting staff for the Sao Paulo Sub-Project", the continued inability of most
Project-assisted facilities to attract and retain adequate numbers of permanent and contractual
staff developed into a very serious problem. The unavailability of qualified staff forced some
facilities to operate only on a part-time basis or to shut down for a limited period.'6"
Project design failed to anticipate either: (i) the continued inability of the public sector to
provide sufficiently attractive remuneration (vis-a-vis the private sector, in which a majority
of skilled public health workers continue to remain active on a part-time basis); or (ii)
variations in pay scale within the public sector, which at presents serves to draw qualified
staff towards municipal facilities and away from state-managed facilities.'7'
22.          Cost Overruns. Significant cost overruns were encountered in nearly all areas
of civil works, ultimately forcing a major reallocation of resources toward this component.
In comparison with costs initially estimated in the SAR, final costs per square meter for new
constructions of UBS's were 72 percent higher and hospitals were 220 percent higher. As
noted in various supervision reports, this increase in costs was partially attributable to
introduction of the "Cruzado Plan" and other macroeconomic "shocks", which were
associated with: (i) a decrease in Government counterpart provision, as a result of
macroeconomic recession and resultant decreases in Government revenue; and (ii) frequent
work stoppages and delays resulting from Plan-induced price changes and difficulties
encountered in renegotiating prices with contractors. However, not noted in the supervision
reports is the fact that costs for civil works were considerably underestimated in the SAR --
hospitals, for instance, were estimated to cost approximately US$ 400 per square meter in
the SAR, although a more accurate figure for the estimated time of construction would have
been more than double this figure4^'.
F.    Project Results
23.          Civil Works and Equipment. Field visits confirm that the Project did result in
16/   The reported staffing problems of Project-assisted facilities are listed in the final
column of Annex 6, where it is noted that at least two of the five hospitals
constructed by the Project were forced to operate at less than full capacity due to
staffing difficulties. During Project implementation, supervision reports that some
Project-financed Basic Health Units had as few as five physicians, rather than the full
complement of twenty. While public facilities generally experienced difficulties
retaining staff in light of higher salaries available in private facilities, there was a
similar flow of staff from State to municipal facilities. Staffing difficulties were most
severe for physicians and nurses.
17/   See Annex 4 for a comparison of salaries currently available from SES, the
Municipality of Sao Paulo and the private sector, for leading service categories.
18/   See page 3 of Annex 6.



10
the construction or upgrading of numerous hospitals and basic health units (UBS's) which,
even if only operational on a part-time basis in some instances (see para. 24), are providing
basic health care in low-income areas of Greater Sao Paulo which previously did not enjoy
such services. All civil works anticipated in the SAR were -- if often with delays --
eventually completed, with the exception of: (i) ten UBS's still under construction; (ii) five
UBS upgradings that were never carried out (of which three were canceled and two were
located in buildings subsequently identified as sub-standard); and (iii) four new UBS
constructions which were canceled. In general, Project-assisted civil works were judged by
Bank consultants to have been of a high standard."'
24.          However, the operation of the facilities has been constrained by: (i) delays in
provision of Project-financed equipment, because of procurement-related difficulties (see
para. 20); (ii) salary and staffing problems (see para. 21). An additional factor was the
unwillingness of SES to install equipment in facilities which have not yet secured adequate
staff; and (iii) in the case of several facilities, legal disputes with contractors (specifically,
efforts by contractors to renegotiate prices after SES forced transfer of contract management
responsibilities for selected facilities from private firms to internal SES units) and/or failure
of State and Municipal authorities to agree on appropriate terms for transfer of facilities
scheduled for municipalization. As indicated by the survey information presented in Annex
6, difficulties in contracting appropriate staff for the five new Project hospitals and
continuing equipment shortages have seriously compromised operations. However, of the
Project-assisted UBS's, only one is not in at least partial operation. SES recognizes that civil
works and equipment in facilities initially to be developed with Project resources must now
be developed at Government expense.
25.          Project-related Health Improvements. Although the Project did develop within
the SAR a set of reasonable and monitorable benchmarks, no discernible effort was made
during Project implementation to collect or analyze such information with specific reference
to Project-assisted facilities. Therefore, efforts to monitor the impact of Project activities on
health performance within the Project area must depend on other sources. As presented in
Annex 5, comparative data for both 1980 and 1990 were available only with regard to: (i)
the infant mortality rate in selected "municfpios" with significant Project investments; and (ii)
child mortality rates, and contributory factors in the five ERSA's in which the Project was
involved. However, with specific reference to the health impact of the Project itself, analysis
of both sets of information must be qualified by noting that: (i) data also reflect activities in
non-Project-assisted facilities; (ii) data reflect the impact of the many other factors on health
conditions in the Project area; and (iii) Project benefits may obviously accrue beyond this
narrow time frame. It can nevertheless be noted that: (i) the infant mortality rate decreased
significantly in Project-assisted "municipios", but did not in all cases fall to the level of 44
deaths per 1000 live births forecast in the SAR; and (ii) infant deaths from "standard" causes
such as pneumonia and enteritis also decreased in all Project-assisted ERSA's.
19/   See pages 1 and 2 of Annex 6 for details of procurement and civil works contracts.



I1
26.          There is no evidence of improved cost-effectiveness of health service delivery,
the one other stated Project objective (see para. 4). Currently available information does not
allow for any assessment as to whether Project investments succeeded in encouraging
prospective patients to use less sophisticated, lower-cost facilities, rather than hospitals.
Supervision reports note compliance with a covenant requiring the introduction no later than
June 30, 1985 of "a simple system of cost accounting satisfactory to the Bank for the public
health system in the Project area". However, this system was in fact introduced only in the
one "health module" of Maud (roughly equivalent to today's ERSA-10), and was completely
dismantled two years later after municipalization occurred in Maua.
G.    Project Sustainability
27.          Recurrent cost implications of Project physical investments were not
adequately defined during Project preparation, as demonstrated by: (i) the numerous Project-
assisted facilities which operate partially or are closed on account of continuing staffing
and/or equipment problems; and (ii) erratic maintenance of Project-assisted facilities by both
SES and the municipalities. Although municipalities perform somewhat better than SES in
this regard, due to their superior resource position at present, neither SES nor the
municipalities appear to have prepared a separate budget item adequate for the maintenance
needs of Project-assisted facilities.
28.          The Project appears to have had a positive (if unanticipated) impact on State
health operations, to the extent that Project ideals and experiences were referred to both at
the time of SES restructuring (see para. 10) and SES implementation state-wide of the
Project's notions of integrated and decentralized health service delivery. It is also true,
however, that the "health modules" were never fully implemented as originally conceived.
Indeed, many interviewed in the State argue that certain key objectives of the "health
module" concept -- specifically, the notions of inter-facility staff mobility and the elimination
of ambulatory services at the hospital level -- are impracticable under present circumstances,
however admirable as ideals. Moreover, the disregard for the originally stated "health
module" concept for non-public health delivery seems to detract from the stated desire for
complete service integration and resultant improvements in efficiency, in addition to running
counter to Bank efforts to encourage public-private cooperation.
29.          Major obstacles remain to effective implementation and sustainability of very
admirable policy ideals. To this end, the Bank should stress in its future discussions with the
Ministry of Health, SES and health officials in other states the remaining need to: (i) define
appropriate responsibilities for, and reporting mechanisms between, "municipios" and the
various offices of SES (including ERSA's), as support for effective decentralization of
services; (ii) develop and implement appropriate administrative and management training
programs for the "municipios"; (iii) resolve the issue of State-municipal salary differentials;
and (iv) improve transparency of finance, including a greater linkage between service
responsibility and resource allocation.



12
H.    Bank Performance
30.          Considering the difficulties inherent in operating in the fluid policy
environment that came to characterize the period of Project implementation, Bank
performance was for the most part adequate. Even if without complete success, Bank
supervision missions did (despite considerable Bank staff turnover) repeatedly stress the
importance of the Project's original reform objectives, as evidenced by: (i) numerous
requests that SES present alternative training and institutional development activities; and (ii)
stated dissatisfaction with the diffuse nature of early Project-financed research and studies.
Technical implementation issues, such as the extended ICB debate, effectively took resources
away from the support and detailed monitoring of sectoral reforms, which had been intended
as the major focus of Project implementation.
31.          However, having decided to become involved in an ambitious, policy-oriented
project, the Bank failed to commit either time or resources sufficient to the task at hand.
The Bank must also bear responsibility for: (i) the relatively low frequency of supervision (as
outlined in Table 6, although frequent Bank missions were fielded during Project preparation
and during the immediate "post-appraisal" period, there was only one Bank supervision
mission per year during most of the Project implementation period); and (ii) the tardiness of
certain initiatives designed to encourage changes in Borrower behavior.LO' If events beyond
the Bank's control (i.e., the extreme fluidity of SES policy debate during the period of
Project implementation) would have complicated a more determined Bank "fine tuning"
exercise under the best of circumstances, the overall level of Bank supervision should
nevertheless have been expanded significantly, precisely to: (i) discuss with incoming
administrations the objectives of on-going Bank projects; (ii) underline the Bank's recognition
of the dynamic nature of sectoral reform projects, and the consequent need to accommodate
variations or shifts in Borrower priorities; and (iii) improve Bank sector knowledge and the
investment implications of such policy shifts. In this regard it should also be noted that,
while the Bank was correct to insist after 1989 on the timely presentation of detailed
quarterly reports (as had been agreed at the time of Project preparation), presentation of such
reports is no substitute for thorough and regular Bank supervision.
I.    Borrower Performance
32.          Borrower performance during Project implementation was satisfactory. PMU
staff performed ably throughout the complex implementation period, and, not having
extensive Project management experience, appeared to have benefitted greatly from the
experience. However, the effectiveness of the PMU was seriously handicapped by the
efforts of the Borrower to limit PMU size, responsibilities and access to consultancy support
(paras. 16-18). These effects were compounded by the relatively high turnover of PMU
20/   By way of example, the Bank waited almost three years before insisting on the
reappointment of a full-time Project Manager in 1990.



13
staff.
33.          Finally, the "quality" of Borrower performance is somewhat overinflated, to
the extent that supervision reports in some instances appear to have noted a more favorable
degree of Borrower compliance than may have been warranted. Two examples are the
highly limited and subsequently discontinued implementation of cost-accounting systems
noted in para. 26 and the incomplete attention to maintenance noted in para. 272-l'. In the
future, the Bank should: (i) establish covenants which are both clearly defined and readily
monitorable; (ii) report actual Borrower performance more accurately; and (iii) in discussions
with Borrowers, be prepared to stress the connection between serious and sustained non-
compliance and possible suspension of disbursements.
J.    Lessons Learned
34.   (a)   While sectoral reform projects remain a valid area for Bank involvement,
successful implementation of such relatively complex activities demands
sustained Bank recognition of the need for the following: (i) continued active
support from key political actors, whose involvement should be secured, if
possible, with each change in administration; (ii) maintenance, in most cases,
of a "high-level" PMU, which should retain management control of all Project
activities, possess (or retain consultants capable of providing) high-quality
technical support, and enjoy open access to key political decision-makers; and
(iii) development of a detailed, phased and flexible implementation schedule.
(b)   As a complement to the Borrower activities described above, Bank
involvement in sectoral reform activities presumes: (i) recognition of the
necessarily dynamic nature of sectoral reform projects, and the attendant need
to accommodate, to the extent possible, subsequent shifts in Government
policies and priorities within Project design; and (ii) frequent and in-depth
supervision, as necessary to attain all of the above.
(c)    While sectoral reform, by its nature, presumes legislative change and the
development of appropriate training and institutional strengthening programs,
the risk remains -- as occurred in the Sao Paulo Basic Health Project -- that
civil works and equipment will disburse more quickly than other related
components. To that end, the Bank should condition disbursements in favor of
civil works and equipment against prior adoption of stipulated institutional
reforms, as is currently being attempted under the Northeast III Education
Project.
(d)   With regards to the PMU, the Bank should actively exercise its right to: (i)
21/   See Table 5 for a detailed account of Borrower compliance with loan covenants.



14
review the qualifications and experience of PMU staff; and (ii) maintain the
overall integrity of the PMU, to guarantee both sustained high-level political
access and support as well as essential PMU management control over all
defined Project activities. Parameters of Project activity and PMU
responsibility should be adequately discussed with Government authorities.
While active Government cooperation and coordination with the PMU should
be encouraged, PMU functions should not be assumed by Government line
agencies without adequate preparation.
(e)   While sectoral reform projects typically involve many separate agencies, it is
important that: (i) the number of such agencies be kept to a manageable level;
and (ii) mechanisms for sustained coordination among such agencies be
developed and appropriately monitored.
(f)    Monitorable indicators of project performance and benefits must be
accompanied by implementation of appropriate health information systems, to
improve the Borrower's capacity to collect, consolidate and analyze such data.
Presentation of such information in periodic progress reports serves as a useful
supplement to Bank supervision efforts.
(g)   Loan covenants must be: (i) limited in number; (ii) readily monitorable; (iii)
accurately reflected in supervision reports, in terms of Borrower compliance,
and (iv) more credibly enforced.
(h)   Both with specific reference to the State of Sao Paulo and throughout Brazil,
the Bank should support the operationalization of SUS and municipalized
health service delivery by helping relevant authorities to: (i) define more
clearly the exact responsibilities of, and reporting relationships between, the
"municfpios" and various State offices, including ERSA's; (ii) develop and
implement training and institutional development appropriate to the technical as
well as management/administrative needs of the "municfpios"; and (iii)
enhance transparency of sectoral financing, including efforts to improve the
correspondence between resource availability and service responsibilities at
each of the levels of the health delivery network.



15
Annex 1
Page 1
Health Sector Reform Chronology
1975        "Plano de Pronta Agao" (PPA)
Provides for universal emergency care to be provided in facilities owned or
contracted by INAMPS, the national payroll-based health insurance system,
without the patient having to be a formal beneficiary of the Brazilian social
security system.
1979        "Programa de Interiorizacao de A&ces de Sau.de e Saneamento" (PIASS)
INAMPS, which had previously had no involvement with preventive health
interventions, agrees to pay for the maintenance of selected facilities
constructed by the Ministry of Health in disadvantaged areas.
1980        "Commissao Interinstitucional de Planejamento" (CIPLAN)
Formed by decree in 1980, CIPLAN was formed to devise means by which
the Ministry of Health and INAMPS (as well as the Ministry of Education)
could coordinate the transfer of health-related funds to the state level.
1981        "Conselho Consultivo de Administracao de Saude PrevidenciAria" (CONASP)
This council, whose membership included the Ministry of Health and INAMPS
as well as other ministries and professional representatives, proposes the
eventual creation of a unified health system, control of health care costs and
development of the underutilized health centers as the most efficient entry
point to the health network.
1984        "Ag6es Integradas de Saude" (AIS)
The first attempt to implement policies proposed by CONASP, AIS served to:
(i) set budgetary ceilings on Brazilian public health sector spending; and (ii)
enourage decentralization and more efficient service delivery.
1986        Municipalization
Initially promoted in Sao Paulo by the State Government which came to power
in 1986, the impetus toward municipalization gained strength at the national
level as a result of the 1988 Constitution.



16
Annex 1
Page 2
1987        'Sistemas Unificados e Descentralizados de Saude" (SUDS)
As a result of Decree 94657, INAMPS staff and facilities were formally
merged with individual State Health Secretariats (or, in some cases, Municipal
Health Secretariats), serving to: (i) convert INAMPS into a purely financing
agency: and (ii) universalize access to the unified health system.
1988        Federal Constitution
The 1988 Constitution strongly promoted the decentralization of the
responsibility for the management and delivery of most social services,
including health. Decentralization to local jurisdictions ("municipios"), as had
been supported by the State Government of Sao Paulo since 1986, gained
strength nationwide.
1990        'Sistema Unificado de Sadde" (SUS
Law 8080 amended SUDS in light of the 1988 Constitution, which mandates
universal access to health care and specifies significantly larger resource
transfers to the level of the "municipios". Municipalized services are to be
complemented by continued federal and state financial and technical assistance,
although specific resposibilities and relationships were left unclear in the law.
Source:     World Bank, Brazil: Issues in Health Care Delivery and Finance, 1992



SES and PMU Organizational Chart
(Through 1987)
|O~FFICE ODF THE
ISECRE-TAFIY                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~CONSULTING
DRHU (SES Human
Pesourcos Unl                                                                 MANAGEMENT UNIT IPMt                             H r     |
l                                 l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CoordIn tbon wIth                 l ntratructural 
NLUDEPE (Muncipal Human          I                       MunkipFl Ott_             Development Group
Resources UnIt                                                                       I
I                                                                                            |Development Group 
I                                                                                                    I                                    uco
COORD NATING  |       G     i e                                   | ~~~~~~~~~~~COOROATN                                     rCOOtDINATIN
ETONFR8EHRSECTION  FOR                                    SECtION FOR
COMMUNm               HOSPITAL9                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~TECHNICAL                                      MENTAL
HEALTH         l                          l                         9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERVICES                                   HEALTH
_GrPubic Hss                                             VarIuus MenbI
Dlr cton t (DRSb) |                 l                     l        l   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Labonatory   ||HeslUF FacIties
G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i ncn | Spcb
O DtrtnS  ir  ther Support
I  l                                                         [  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UnIb
NOTE: Double Iln. (=) connotes Project-related responsIbIlItIes.
F-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,1
COORDINATING  COOFIDINATING                       COOFtDINATING                                             COOFiDINATING               -j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c° 1
SECTION FOR  SECTION FOR                          SECTION FOR                                               SECTION FOR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
COMMUNITY  HOSPITALS                              TECHNICAL                                                  MENTAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\
HEALTH                                           SERVICES                                                   HFALTH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



SES and PMU Organizational Chart
(1987-1989)
OFIFICrE Of THE  1
SECRETARv                                        OFFICE OF THE
EXECUTIVE SECRETARY
Obr.uo, T..hM..d FI-1.nNI
|---        CTE: SES CbM Wkodl UnA                                                                  b..p (o,TF)
AND
I ----------  ASEQ SE$ EQAp..ni UNCn                                                                        .      10-
23Yf..u.. 5011j,. (GEPUIOn   ---- --- ------CADAIS: ESE k,.Mo.M.                                                                             N
I_____________________________        * RESPONSIBLE  OFFICIALd
FOR &ANK PRO0JECT
-         R...a.e. ~~Uft                                      MUN.InJp offi..
MACROREGION I
Uaclbo,.gon S                        Sw...gilon S                          U.sco..lQfl@ *                               Osh., Uacro..gons
T.. EASA'.                           Vdu. ERSA'.                          V.I., ERSA.                            V.eIo. ERSAs                                  V.-I... EASA'.
H._pRM S.o.|                          Hos. Sr | |                          HopS  S..|.| Ho.pSel S|                                                          |  Hol S-....
| Una'. *nd     |                         hCno  h             C..                C  e             h Ce                  C                                        M s    |H  hcnl
NOTE 1I Double ine (-) connotes ProbeCt-retated reponsiblNu.
NOTE 2: From 1867 unIl 16S0, project m-nagement dut" previously handled wktln thI PMU were made one of the reponsibllles of the SES Executive SeCre"ry. 



SES and PMU Organizational Chart
(Post-1 990)
OFFCE OF THE
OFFCE OF TW
SECPETAq                                     EXE6 nME SECFETAR
- lo,cto, Tedmnii P9*m
- C*OrdW&to, Nudmum for
&4WaOt b Prc.b
- - P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ hif WggaI
l   OSEO SB    E    Urit                                             _ ,1_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ro-f*V Uni
23T      EAuGroups' tEEPRos1) CAS                                          Vg Institutioual
I             I         |                                                                                           l~~~~~~~~~~rApmVPn*  FULL-TNE PROECT 
CEDM:,!ua*                                                 Codalkn   I
III 
_ P*d _:=f_~~~~~Mcmgln 2                                        Macrogo 3                            Mwroto<>n 4                                 O0Xr Mwoa:kn
| Ton ERSA's    |arkV   Eff3A's|                                          VarosEff;A's  V|W |                        EF;SA'                                 Vaou |EL v SA'
Hopk Srvkcms                         soervice                            Hosia Ssnkas                          osph  eryb.                                 Hoeph SerAlos
I H I t Fb Sen I I H 9 1 I H Ser~~~~~~~~~ I                                                                                                    IH  e 
lDS.d HNWHi                                                            H         Cutir| Health Cen,m n-e|    mr
NOTE: Double line (-) connotes Project-related responsibiltise.



20
Annex 3
Project-Financed Training and Institutional Development
(By year and request for disbursement)
Training for Office Assistants
Training for Nurses
Training for Attendants
1986
No disbursements
1987
Two 'Decentralized Classes' courses (no further specification)
Course in "Workplace Medicine"
Public Health Course (run by the Amaldo Vieira de Carvalho Foundation)
1988
No disbursements
Ten "Decentralized Classes" courses for Nursing Assistants
"Visits to Sectoral Institutions in the United Kingdom"
Three "audio-visual support" courses, administered by GloboTec
Course on "Development of Human Resources in Sao Paulo", administered by
FUNDAP
1990
Nine "Decentralized Classes" courses



21
Annex 4
Comparative Monthly Health Sector Salaries in Sao Paulo
(Prices in December 1992 Cruzeiros)
State of         Municipality of         Private
Sao Paulo        Sao Paulo (MSP)        Sector (MSP)
Physician        1,078,686        4,355,000              16,500,000
(24 hrs/wk)
Nurse            1,400,133        4,355,000               9,300,000
Nursing Assistant    896,805      1,478,000               5,150,000 to
6,300,000
Pharmacist       2,319,175        5,235,000               9,500,000
Psychologist     1,400,134        5,235,000              11,000,000
Lab Technician    667,389         1,478,000              5,500,000
Source: State Health Secretariat of Sao Paulo



MORTALITY FOR "UNDER 1" POPULATION (PER THOUSAND LIVE BIRTHS)
EASA 5                          ERSA 7                          ERSA 10                        ERSA 12                       ERSA 14
1980                  1990      1980                    1990      1980                 1990      19O8                1990       1980                1990
PopubUl1on Under One
Year of Age                                       34220                33898     28943                   24109      9437                 9m28     13088                13506      4738                8537
__e orted Cause of Death
Enteritis                                        270                 125        108                      50       ISO                   is       20                   47        35                   22
0.79%               037%      0.30%                   021%       1.78%               0A 1%     0.15%                0.35%     074%                 0.34%
Pln*umontn,                                      2f0                 270        147                     9s         88                  45         2t                 e8         58                   3b
085%                0t0%      0.55%                    041%      0.91%               048%      0.21%                0.88%     118%                 058%
Birth-Welted
Injuries                                      173                 404        160                     230       134                  105        20                  180        84                  53
0~51%               1.47%     0.80%                   0.9M       1.42%               1 07%     0.15%                1.18%     1.35%                0.81%
Other Peinatatl
Compliation                                   125                  152        64                      75        80                   50        17                   50        28                  40
0.37%               0.45%     0.31%                   0.31%      0.85%               08e0%     0.13%                0.37%     0.59%                0.75%
Nutnitional
Deflciencl-e                                   48                   t2        31                      19         t                    2        tl                  22         28                  11
0.13%               0.1t#%    0.12%                   0.08%      0.08#               0.02%     0.08r%               0.18%     059%                 0.17#%
Other Infectlouo
Diseases                                       38                   4t        13                      17         5                    8         2                   l        10                   8
011%                0.14%     0.00%                    0.07%     0.00%               0.0o%      0.02%               .13       0.21%                0.12%
Macsl..                                           30                   0         20                       0         7                   0          0                   0         7                    1
0 01l%              0.00%     0.07%                    0.00%     0.07%               000%       0.0                 0.0%      0.15%                0.02%
Meningitis                                        31                  33          8                       4         4                    1         4                   a         2                    1
0.0e%               0.10%     0.03%                   0.02%      0.04%               0 01%     0.03%                0.07%     0.04%                0.02%
Congenital
Abnormaltites                                  47                  112        41                      57        41                   37         5                   35        17                   16
014%                0. 33%    0 15%                    0 24%     043%                0 3H%     0 04%                0 2t%     0 3e%                0 24%
NOTE: Top figure IndIcates total deaths per year of Indicated disease.
Bottom figure Indicates peccentage of total recotded deaths.
ERSA    Regional Hmlth OMfice
H 



23
Annex 5
Page 2
Changes in IMR in Selected Project-assisted Municipios
Deaths per thousand
live births       Percent
Reduction
1980       1990
ERSA 5
- Itaquera             55.12      30.27        -45%
- Guaianazes          112.97      53.19        -53%
ERSA 7
- Nossa Senhora do 0    41.42     26.66        -36%
ERSA 10
- Maua                 63.80      33.01        -48%
ERSA 12
- Cotia                 54.43     30.24        -44%
ERSA 14
- Caieiras              59.92     48.14        -20%



I           I                                                                                                                                                2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
~~~~~~. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    .  *--................................................. .... . .. .. . .. .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     .   . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .  . . . 0 r °    Z
0 It.0 00 .00                       0   .  .. .                                         OC 0  0  O*00 aa0              0000
ig:..   Z . . . ..oc o.,  .SSS~S0S                                                                                                                                       0OO~
F I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
s N s s s s s w s sM s s 0 ul O w w w w~ ~;;;; S O O O O w  s N N b ;; o S O S  o s s s s s s ; o 
co o    o   o . oooo  s  oo    oooo  .o .  o    oooo oo 0 0 0no0 0no  nooo o)ooooooo * 0  *- 0 00 000 00 * 0   0 S  Z*   - 0X          *-    E I                 E f   I  II   I   onoo<n(nnoc 
g~~~                                                                                                                        II                                                Zgzg!3!!!|s!!ss9!$s!s!5svtttvggag                         ,     
" " " "   " " " "" 'i't "" " "^ "'t" c" ' " <";t'" !';';'!'s'rtc';|jassslasis&;ss^;{{{2i' " : " "'s'c "                                " "c'--)
g° ° g gB S g g g r v v v; gS * o o o  @ s o s  o g ff g; w r r o;   3 3  t s o o  , s    s s S t S t g r s g S g g g g g g g g f ^ ^ ^ 6 ^ @  ^    ^  * 3  A   ^ 8 fi    ° °~~0  A  0 
' g Er O  O0  O ir t  E Yt O9O -  Z] E  t §Oo t4 l  r  fl 3  § g  o So S  ERiSag¢PalIgalEFstttot-§  tIIiitIiigs+II                            i    S    tb  0
j                 t~~~s88tst88s8888882881gg88888888888888s8888888888888888g8 lIti   8ttt 8t8tt 8t                                                     S888888888gtggg8888 g}issg lts tt                                           20       t
_A       _  ___        __      __     __A  __   __        _ A_ A           _  ____          ___ rAAAAAAAA                AAAAAAAAA                     AAAAAAAA                AAAAAAAAA      AAAAAA          
oC 8  ooo  oOo  ooo  o8C OOOOOOo                  S     8              SSSSg°O  oooSoC '0   o0 SS  SSS                     o cOOOOOOOO                      o       o. o      ~ o                                 tLi
ii ;|*  i ilZ                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~if             j  jj i   i                                   ii              -        2          O       F
hi-i-u~ ~         ~              ~             ~             ~             ~             ~            ~!t                            5   F                      [
F                                                                                F        F~                                                                         ; r itj 



2 5
Annex 6
R>aqe 2
CONSTRUCTION
LOCATION
CONCLUSION              ADDITIONAL COMMENTS (IF AVAILABLE)
TYPE OF     AREA   DATE
NAME OF FACILITY        MUNICIPIO    ERSA    CIVIL WORKS   (M2) STARTED Pianned Actual % Completed
Jardim Zaira Glebac        Sao Paulo           10   Construcrton   1003      a/88    2/87  10/88     100%
Jardim Paranavai           Sao Paulo           10   Constructon     822      8/88    2187  10/88     100%
Jardim Sonia Maria         Sao Paulo          10   Construction     745      V88   12188   2/89      100%
ParqueAllanca              SaoPaulo            10   Consruction     831      5/86   11/86  10/88     100%
Jardim Florida             Sao Paulo           10   Construction    792      8/88   2V87   1/89      100%
VilaFel"                   SaoPaulo            10   Construction    742      7/88    1/87  10/88     100%
Vargem Grand. Paulista     Sao Paulo           12   Construction    985    10/86    4/87   1/89      100%   Full operaion, 24 hrs, 3 shifts. Needs repairs.
Jrdim Vera Tereza          Sao Pauio          14   Construction     788      7/88    1/87   3/92     100%
Cael-s (Centro)            Sao Paulo          14   Construction     914      5/88   11/88  10/88     100%
VblaRRoaiina               Sao Paulo          14   Construction     772      9/86    3/87  10/88     100%
ParqueVltort               SaoPaulo            14   Construciion    810      5/88   11/88  10/88     100%
"birro Tera Prat           Maviripora         14   Consruction      734      5/8f   11/88  10/88     100%
Larann4ilr                 Calbran            14   ConstuctIon      812      8/8    12/80  10/86     100%
Parque Paulit             Fr. da Rocha       14   Consduction      808      8/88   1288  10/86      100%
Bairro do Polvliho         Ca(mar             14   ConstrucLon      827    10/8B    4/87  10/88      100%
Vile Clara (Vile ElIdia)   Sao Paulo           3   Consruction      726      8/88    2/89    -        50%   Paralyzed tacility.
CGdade A.E. Carvalho       Sao Paulo           5   Conetruchon      750      7/88    1/89    -        35%   Works on-going.
laolina Mazzel             Sao Paulo           8   ConsructIon      755      7/88    1/89    -        70%   Works to recommence In December 1992.
Vila Albertina             Sao Paulo           e   Constructon      825      7/88    1/89    -        85%   Worka on-goIng.
Jardim Terezinha           Sao Paulo           7   ConsructIon      554      8/88    2/89    -        10%   Paralyzed facility.
Vila Espanhola             Sao Paulo           7   Construcdon      750      8/86   12V88    -        75%   Works on-going.
Vila Barboea 11            Sao Paulo           7   Construction     742      6/88   12/86  12/92     100%   Works on-going.
Jkrdim Paulleteno          Sao Paulo           7   Construction     778      7/86    1/87    -        80%   Paralyzed facility.
Jardim Republica           Sao Paulo           8   Construcffon     780      7/86    1/87  12/92     100%
Rio Grnde da Serra         Rio Grnde da Ser   10   Constructon      752      7/88    1/87    -        80%   Parlyzed taciIty.
Bairro da Guarta Divlbao   Rlberoo Pire.      10   Construction     783      7/88    1/87    -        50%   Works on-going.
Balrro do Portao           Coda               12   Construction     711      7/88    1/87    -       40%    Works on-going.
Rea Parque                 Sao Paulo            1  Coneruction      882       -      2/87    -         0%   Canceiled.
Vb. Bel                    Sao Paulo           3   Construcffon     749       -    11/88    -          0%   Cancelled.
VILb das Merces            Sao Paulo           3   Coneruction      848       -      3V87    -         0%   Cancelled.
Jordim Oatorio             Maus                10   Construction    780       -       -      -         0%   Cancelled.



Comparative Indlcators for Area and Cost of Civil Works
(End 1992)
Average
Unit
Value                           Average Variation
Expenditure           Number of         Unit
Category              Facilities                   SAR          Contract       Actual           B'/'A'        C / A
(A)           (B)           (C)
UBS Construction                        99
M2             780            788           788              1.03%         1.03%
SUS .000          234           246            406             5.13%         73.50%
SUS W00/M2          300           312            515             4.06%        71.74%
UBS Renovation                          28
M2             450            717 (a)       717 (a)        59.33%         59.33%
SUS '000          112             98 (a)        85 (b)        -12.50%       -24.11%
SUS '000/M2         249 (c)       137            119           -45.08%        -52.37%
Hospital Construction                    5
M2           11660          12779         12779              9.60%         9.60%
SUS 000          4763         11927          16629           150.41%        249.13%
SUS'000/M2          408           933           1301           128.48%       218.56%
Hospital Renovation                      2
M2           10444          10444         10444               0.0%          0.0%
SUS '000          901          2524           4442           180.13%        393.01%
SUS '000/M2          86           242            425           180.13%       393.01%
Hospital Expansion                       1
M2            9248          9248           9248               0.0%          0.0%
SUS 000          1558          3080           4829            97.69%        209.95%
SUS '000/M2.        168           333            522            97.69%       209.95%                    n  r
NOTES:
(a) = Average for 16 upgraded UBS's.
(b) = Average for 17 upgraded UBS's.
(c) = Averago for 21 upgraded UBS'.



27
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    In this report, we will refer to the Project as the "Metropolitan Health Project", as
this is how it is referred to in reports of the State Health Secretariat (e.g., "The Battle for
Health in the Montoro Government" and "Health: The Challenge of Change", which
respectively describe the periods 1983/87 and 1987/91). This is also the name by which the
Project-financed activities are known by state and municipal institutions as well as by people
at large.
2.    The Metropolitan Health Project was developed and implemented during a period of
profound reform in the health sector in Brazil and, particularly, in Sao Paulo. For a better
comprehension of the political and institutional context, we shall describe, as follows, the
three successive periods of state governments in Sao Paulo, and the interrelationship of each
with the Metropolitan Health Project.
1979 to 1983
3.    In this period, the national level is in the final phase of the bureaucratic-authoritarian-
military government installed in 1964: There had been in this period a "slow, gradual and
progressive" opening of political institutions; there was also a marked increase in social
movements, which demanded greater popular participation and social rights. In Sao Paulo,
especially in the eastern zone of the city, popular health movements which fought for better
health conditions and medical assistance began to be organized. The State Health Secretary
of the time, Dr. Adib Jatene, showed great leadership and prestige in the medical area as
well as sensitivity to these rising popular demands. It is in this period that the first
understandings with the World Bank were made, on the basis of a strategy to capture
external resources for health sector investments, in consideration of the large "deficit" with
respect to demand for hospital-based and outpatient care, especially on the urban periphery of
the greater metropolitan region of Sao Paulo. A group of technicians, directly linked to the
office of the State Health Secretary, formulates the guiding principles of what would develop
into the Metropolitan Health Project, which, it was decided at the very beginning, would not
deal only with a mere investment plan, but would also address institutional strengthening and
human resource development needs, with the objectives of increased integration,
regionalization and hierarchical orientation of the various health systems operative in the
State, while promoting increased community participation.
1983 to 1987
4.    In March of 1983, a freely elected and democratic State government comes to power
for the first time since 1964. The election of this government results from a broad alliance
of political forces which had opposed the military government. The health program of this
government emphasized:



28
(a)   the goal of universal medical care, to be provided on the basis of
decentralization, popular participation and priority attention to primary health
care;
(b)   broadening of the public health service network; and
(c)   transfer of responsibility for the basic health network to the municipal level.
5.    The team from the previous government, which had set out the basic directives foe
the Metropolitan Health Project, collaborated in this program and participated in the
administration of the new State Health Secretariat.
6.    State Health Secretary Joao Yunes, public health specialist and member of the public
health faculty of the University of Sao Paulo, nominated as regional subsecretaries for each
regional department of the State Health Secretariat young public health specialists, who were
tasked with trying to coordinate all public health services in their respective regions.
7.    The new State government, in spite of being opposed to the previous State
government as well as the military government at the federal level, demonstrated continuity
in the area of health and with respect to the Metropolitan Health Project. On December 29,
1983, a Commission is created by the Governor for the final elaboration of the project and,
in December 1984, the loan contract is signed.
8.    Meanwhile, the "Integrated Health Actions" (AIS) agreement between the State Health
Secretariat and INAMPS is signed in July 1983, with the objective of expanding capacity of
the public health system, by transferring resources from INAMPS to the State Health
Secretariat as well as to the various Municipal Health Secretariats. It was expected that
growth into the interior of the State and the outerlying areas of Greater Sao Paulo were to be
accommodated in large part through expansion of municipal health activities.
9.    In 1985, a new national President is elected, signaling the end of the military period,
and a National Constitutional Assembly is convened to elaborate a new federal Constitution.
In 1986 the Eighth National Health Conference is convened which, with the participation of
8,000 representatives from the public and private sectors, defines the guidelines for the
section of the new Constitution on "Health and Security".
10.   Also in 1986 thele takes place a radical organizational restructuring of the State
Health Secretariat -- there are created 62 "Regional Health Offices" (ERSA's) and five
"Coordination Office". These are technical-administrative units, responsible for
administering all health resources in their respective regions, within one regionalized network
and with growing levels of complexity.
11.   In Greater Sao Paulo, there were created 15 ERSA's and one "Coordination Office"
(CRS-1), which had as its objective the coordination of regional planning of the ERSA's for



29
the metropolitan area; at this time, the Project Coordinator for the Metropolitan Health
assumes responsibility for CRS-1 as well, and there takes place an effective merging of the
guidelines of the original project within this new organizational structure. The cumulative
knowledge of the technical team of the Project Management of the Metropolitan Health
Project is also incorporated and spread out within various State Health Secretariat offices
through this process of reorganization, which is elaborated with the technical assistance of
the Metropolitan Health Project and the Foundation for Administrative Development
(FUNDAP). The idea of the "Health Module", as originally developed within the
Metropolitan Health Project, is accepted as the paradigm for the new structure of the State
Health Secretariat.
1987 to 1991
12.  In March 1987, the newly elected Governor (who had previously been Vice
Governor) established as the priority of his new government the implementation in Sao Paulo
of the new Unified Health System (SUS) policy as well as municipalization of health
services.
13.   The new State Health Secretary is Dr. Jose Aristodemo Pinotti, who is a physician
and former lecturer at UNICAMP. Dr. Pinotti continues with the implementation of the new
structure for the State Health Secretariat while, at the same time, assuming responsibility for
INAMPS within the State of Sao Paulo. A new agreement, the Unified and Decentralized
Health System (SUDS), is signed with INAMPS, effectively replacing the former AIS policy.
14.   The new agreement has as its objective the implementation of the new health system,
which is to be simultaneously unified and decentralized. The strategy which was adopted
emphasized:
(a)   Integrate INAMPS with the State Health Secretariat. The 100 ambulatory
facilities and five hospitals of INAMPS were subordinated to the State Health
Secretariat, while the ERSA's were made responsible for the administration of
contracts and convenios of INAMPS resources with contracted private
individuals and facilities.
(b)   Municipalization. The process of municipalization was continued, with the
transfer of responsibility for the administration of state health services to the
municipal level. Convenios were signed with practically all the "municipios",
with the major exception of the Municipality of Sao Paulo -- the state capital.
(c)   Expansion. There would continued efforts to expand access of the public
health network, whether state or municipal.
(d)   University Linkages. There were created, in cooperation with selected
universities, "scientific commissions", which had the objective of developing



30
appropriate technical competence in the State Health Secretariat for the various
State health initiatives.
15.   In this period, CRS-1 continued as the chief administrative unit responsible for
Greater Sao Paulo. There was, however, created at the central level as office designed to
maintain the continuity of the Metropolitan Health Project itself, this occurring at the time
that Project-financed Basic Health Units (but not Project-assisted hospitals) came into
operation. There was also at this time a marked expansion in civil works (Basic Health
Units as well as hospitals) throughout Greater Sao Paulo. Some hospitals, previously
privately administered, also came under the control of the State Health Secretariat.
16.   During this period of expansion, carried out with federal and State resources, the
Metropolitan Health Project comes to represent a relatively small share of total investments
and loses, therefore, a certain degree of the priority which it had previously enjoyed.
17.   In 1988, the new Constitution defines for the health sector the following new
principles and guidelines:
(a)    Article 196. Health is the right of all and the responsibility of the State, and
will be guaranteed by means of social and economic policies which seek to (i)
reduce the risk of illness and other afflictions and (ii) promote universal and
equitable access.
(b)   Article 197. Health actions and services are of public relevance, and it shall
be the responsibility of the Government to regulate, monitor and control such
services, by means of appropriate legislation, and ensuring that such services
are delivered, either directly or by third parties, either public in nature or
from the private sector.
(c)    Article 198. Public health actions and services shall comprise one integrated
and hierarchical network, the 'unified system", which shall be organized along
the following guidelines:
decentralization, with unified management at each level of
administration;
integrated care, with priority to preventive actions; and
--    promotion of community participation.
(d)    The unified health system will be financed, as referenced in Article 195, with
budgetary resources from the social security system, from the federal
government, from the state, from the Federal District, and from the
"munic(pios', among other sources.



31
18.   In 1990, the national Congress approves the new legislation authorizing the Unified
Health System (SUS) program (Law Nos. 8080 and 8142).
19.   These changes, principally the universalization of the right to health care as a social
right and the redefinition of the role of the public sector, came to have major repercussions
on the organization and financing of public health services.
20.   With the implementation of the SUDS programs (which anticipated SUS and Laws
No. 8080 and 8142), there took place in the State of Sao Paulo:
(a)   decentralization of administrative responsibilities to the regional and municipal
levels;
(b)   increase in the financing contribution of the municipal level;
(c)   expansion of the public health system, as compared with private providers; and
(d)   increase in quantity of health and medical services delivered.
Final Conclusions
21.   The factual information contained in Part III of the draft PCR submitted for review is
correct and accurately reflects the financial and physical performance of the Project.
22.   Part I of the PCR presents an analysis of the development and implementation of the
Metropolitan Health Project. Major emphasis was placed on technical-administrative aspects,
with somewhat less discussion of sector policy changes then occurring in the country which
had a major impact on the implementation of the Metropolitan Health Project.
23.   The performance of the Bank during the implementation of the Project presented the
following problems:
(a)   lack of continuity in the Bank team responsible for monitoring implementation
of the Project -- this had a significant impact on the view of the Project, not
only within the Bank, but within the State Health Secretariat.
(b)   emphasis on the financial, administrative and management aspects of the
Project, with insufficient comprehension of the important political and
institutional factors which affected Project implementation.
(c)   as a consequence, the actions of the World Bank team were strong in the area
of operational aspects (e.g., promotion of ICB) but weak with respect to
political and institutional issues (e.g., municipalization of health services in
Greater Sao Paulo):



32
24.   From the point of view of the State Health Secretariat, one may observe the
following:
(a)    Difficulties encountered in developing competent and permanent staff for
Project management, especially in view of the fact that this was the first
experience of the State Health Secretariat with the World Bank.
(b)   At the political level, the State Health Secretariat viewed the Metropolitan
Health Project as an additional source of finance for civil works and
equipment, rather than a project designed to develop institutional capacity and
human resources.
(c)    Paradoxically, the basic orientation of the Metropolitan Health Project and the
"know how" generated as a result of its implementation served as the basis for
the profound policy changes which subsequently occurred in the State of Sao
Paulo.
(d)   The civil works and equipment objectives of the Metropolitan Health Project
were largely fulfilled. However, with reference to the development of "health
modules" and improved reference systems, these new principles of
reorganization were more observed outside the parameters of the Project.
(e)    With respect to the development of human resources, the project did not
achieve its objective of developing management capacity for the new model of
health delivery. However, Project-financed training programs (for health
auxiliary, laboratory technicians, dental hygienists, etc.) were significant, and
were only possible as result of Project resources.
25.   The principal lesson learned as a result of the Metropolitan Health Project is that
projects which involve institutional development require: (a) the training of full-time
management staff and (b) continual monitoring of implementation, with the possibility for
revision of implementation strategy, as required.



PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans or Credits
Loan Title               Purpose                     Approval          Status
Loan 2061-BR       To improve the health status    Dec. 1, 1981        Closing Date
Northwest Region   of Rondonia's increasing                            June 30,
Integrated Dev't    population with malaria                            1988
Program: Health    control, extension of basic
services, training of health
workers and operational
research.
Loan 2448-BR       To improve the Government's     May 30, 1984        Closing Date
National Health    ability to address a variety                        Dec. 31,
Policy Studies     of health needs through                             1989
strengthening policy
formation.
Loan 2699-BR       To improve the health status    April 30, 1986      Closing Date
Northeast Basic    of rural residents of four                          Dec. 31,
Health Services    Northeast states, and                               1994
Project            to strengthen Government
management of the health
delivery system.
Loan 2931-BR       To reduce prevalence of         Jan. 19, 1988       Closing Date
Northeast Endemic  Chagas' disease, leishmaniasis                      June 30,
Disease Control    and schistosomiasis infection                       1994
Project            in the Northeast, and to
strengthen Government
capacity to track and control
endemic diseases.
Loan 3072-BR       To reduce the prevalence of     April 21, 1989      Closing Date
Amazon Basin       malaria infection in the                            June 30,
Malaria Control    Amazon region, and to                               1995
Project            strengthen Government
capacity to track and
control malaria.



374
Loan 3135-BR       To improve health status         Oct. 25, 1989       Closing Date
Second Northeast   of rural residents of seven                         June 30,
Basic Health       Northeast states, particularly                       1996
Services Project    in maternal/child health, and
strengthen Government
management of the health
delivery system.



Table 2: Project Timetable
Date               Date                     Actual
Planned            Revised                  Date
Identification                                                  May 1980
Preparation                                                    June/July 1982
Appraisal                                                      Nov./Dec. 1982
Post-appraisal"'                                               April 1983
Sept./Oct. 1983
Dec. 1983
Jan. 1984
April 1984
Loan Negotiations                                              April 1984
Board Approval                                                 June 21, 1984
Signature                                                      Dec. 10, 1984
Effectiveness                                                  June 11, 1985
Closing'           June 30, 1989      June 30, 1992            June 30, 1992
Completion         Sept. 30, 1988     Sept. 30, 1988
Frequent turnover of SES staff resulted in the prolonged delay between Appraisal,
Post-Appraisal and Loan Negotiations, as well as the fielding of several individual
Post-Appraisal Missions.
21    The Closing Date was first extended to June 30, 1990, as a result of implementation
delays. Two additional extensions (i.e., to June 30, 1991 and finally to June 30,
1992) were approved, to allow for full disbursement after the lengthy delays
encountered in the ICB procurement of hospital equipment.



Table 3: Schedule of Disbursements
(in $US millions)
Fiscal Year/     Estimated         Actual              Actual as %
Semester Ending  Disbursements     Disbursements        of Estimated
(SAR)
1985
12/31/84    3.1  6%            ---  0%                 ---
6/30/85     6.6  12%          5.1   9%                 77%
1986
12/31/85    14.0  25%          5.9  11%                42%
6/30/86    21.9  39%          6.3  11%                 29%
1987
12/31/86    30.0  54%         13.7  25%                46%
6/30/87    38.4  69%          24.9  45%                65%
1988
12/31/87    45.9  83%         29.9  54%                65%
6/30/88    50.8  92%          35.2  63%                69%
1989
12/31/88    54.3  98%         40.3  73%                74%
6/30/89    55.5 100%          41.1  74%                74%
1990
12/31/89    ---  ---          44.8  81%
6/30/90      -                46.3  83%
1991
12/31/90    ---  ---          46.8  84%
6/30/91    ---  ---           46.8  84%
1992
12/31/91    -- --49.9  90%--
6/30/92    ---  ---           50.9  92%
1993
12/01/92    ---  ---          55.4  99%
Undisbursed balance of $111,639.56 equivalent, including commitment charges on
such amount, cancelled as of November 24, 1992.



r7
Table 4: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(in $US millions)
Category           Project      Loan         Actual       Disbursement
Cost         Amount
(Net of      ($US                      (Percentage)
Taxes)       Equiv.)
Civil Works         58.7        22.0         30.2          41%
Goods               25.2        13.2         16.0         100% of foreign
expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) under ICB
and 41% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
Consultant
Services3'         8.2         5.0          5.0          100%
Works/Goods4'        3.6         2.0          0.2          41%
Training/
Fellowships        4.2          1.6          1.5         100% of foreign
expenditures;
41 % of local
expenditures
Studies              1.7         1.5          1.5          100%
PMU Expenses         2.9         1.0          0.9          41%
Initial Deposit
in Sp. Acct.       ---         5.0          ----
Front-end Fee                    0.1          0.1
Unallocated         ---          4.1
Total              104.5        55.5         55.4
Undisbursed balance of $111,639.56 equivalent, including commitment charges on
such amount, cancelled as of November 24, 1992.
31    Other than Category (6)
4/    Reserves for MSP



38
Table 5: Status of Covenants
Loan           Covenant                  Compliance         General
Section                                   Status             Remarks
3.01(a)           "Carry out the Project   Bank suspended      Suspension of
with due diligence and   disbursements in    disbursements was
efficiency"              February 1991,     due to failure to
following          carry out necessary
non-compliance of  ICB procurement of
this covenant and    Hospital equipment.
Section 4.04 (a).
Suspension lifted
in June 1991 after
all equipment
contracts were
signed.
3.01(b)           "Maintain CIS, CRIS and   Full compliance.
CIMS agreements"
3.01(c)(i)        "Maintain Project        Full compliance    In mid-1987, the
Management Unit (PMU)"  until mid-1987      PMU administrative
structure was
merged formally
with various
offices of the
State Health
Secretariat.
3.01(c)(iii)      "Afford the Bank a       Partial             Documentation sent
reasonable opportunity   compliance.        to Bank only upon
to comment on the                           Bank's request, and
qualifications and                          after appointments
experience of any                           were made.
candidate for Manager
of the PMU"
3.02(a),(b)       "Hiring of consultants"  Partial             While contracts for
compliance.        consultants to
assist PMU in
accordance with
Bank guidelines,
contracts were



allowed to lapse
after 1987
3.04(a)           "Furnish to the Bank      Partial            Bank suspended
plans, contracts and     compliance;         disbursements in
procurement schedule"    long delays in      February 1991 in
procurement of     connection with
hospital           delays in ICB
equipment.         procurement of
hospital equipment.
Suspension was
lifted fully in
June 1991 after
all contracts
were awarded.
3.04(b)           "Maintain proper records"  Partial           Quarterly reports
compliance.        resumed in 1989,
though were to have
been provided
throughout
implementation.
3.04(c)           "Prepare a report on      Full compliance.    -----------------
Project execution as of
June 1986"
3.05              "Acquisition of land for    Full compliance.
facilities construction
no later than December
31, 1985"
3.07              "Acceptability of         Full compliance.    -----------------
preliminary drawings by
Bank before initiating
preparation of final
drawings"
3.08              "Employ physicians on a   No compliance.     Pattern of part-
full-time basis"                            time employment not
changed by Project.
Finding physicians
to work at health
centers and keep
even part-time
hours remains a



major problem for
SES.
3.09              "Implementation of Parts   Full compliance.    With six months
A, 6a and C1 by June 30,                     delay.
1985 and March 31, 1985,
respectively"
4.01              "Maintain separate        Full compliance.    -----------------
Project accounts"
4.02              "Project account audited    Full compliance,    1990 audit delayed.
each fiscal year"        after delays.
4.04(a),(c)       "Cause all health         Partial            Maintenance plan
facilities in the        compliance.         submitted to Bank
Project area to be       Problems in         in September 1988.
efficiently operated     efficient           In addition to this
and maintained.          operation of        plan, ASEQ has
Furnish to Bank a        health centers,     developed computer
detailed maintenance     due largely to      database for
system not later than    staffing problems    equipment
June 30, 1985"           Maintenance system  maintenance system.
plan provided.
4.05              "Afford the Bank          Information        -------------------
reasonable opportunity   supplied when
to comment on major      requested.
new investments in
health sector"



41
Table 6: Missions
Stage of         Mo/Yr        # of         Days in      Spec.        Comments
Proj. Cycle                    Persons      Field         Rep. (a)
Appraisal through
Effectiveness
Reconnaissance       8/79     3              7          PH/P
Identification       6/80     3              -          PH/HM        Combined
mission
Preparation         9/81      1              11         PH
Review              9/82      4              7          PH/HM
Appraisal         11-12/82    8              19         PH/HM/A
Post-Appraisal      4/83      1              5          PH
Post-Appraisal    9-10/83    4               -          PH/HM        Combined
mission
Post-Appraisal      12/83     1              6          PH
Post-Appraisal       1/84     2              6          PH/HM        Combined
mission
Post-Appraisal      4/84      1              4          HM
Supervision
Supervision          7/84      3              8          PH1A
Supervision          9/86      1              -          PH           Combined
mission
Supervision         3-4/87     2              -          PHJHM        Combined
mission
Supervision          8/87      2              4          PH
Supervision        9-10/87     1              -          HM           Combined
mission
Supervision          11/87     1              -          HM           Combined
mission
Supervision          4/88      1              8          PH
Supervision          3/89      3             12          PH/HM
Supervision          11/89     2              7          PH/A
Supervision        10-11/90    2             10          PH/A
Supervision          11/91     3             12          PH/HM/A
Project
Completion           12/92     2              12         HM/A



(a)   Abbreviations are as follows:
PH = Public Health Specialist
HM = Health Management Specialist
A = Architect
P = Population Specialist



Table 7: Research and Studies Financed under Loan No. 2447-BR
(Agency responsible for coordinating research indicated in parenthese, where available)
--    "Project for the Evaluation of the Trajectory of the Women's Health Program
in the State Medical Network Between 1982 and 1986"
"Study of Risk Factors for Non-transmissible Diseases"
"Assistance to Those Incurring Work-related Accidents and Investigation of
Such Accidents by the Public Health Network"
"Perceived Morbidity and Service Utilization Patterns in the ERSA of Itaperica
da Serra (1987/88)"
"Study of Intra-uterine Mortality in Sao Paulo"
"Metropolitan Health Program: New Forms of State Intervention in the Health
Sector"
"Relations between Health Providers and Their Patients
"Mortality: Differentials and Health Sector Policy"
"Identification of the Health Needs of Senior Citizens in Urban Areas"
"Evaluation of the 'Program for Integrated Assistance to Women' in the State
of Sao Paulo"
"Determination of the Risk of Tubercular Infection in Children"
"Restructuring of the Institute of Health" (Institute of Health)
"Evaluation of the 'Projecto Favela' (SES initiative of the
1980's): (CADAIS)
"Implementation of the 'Center for the Protection of Manual
Activity' Sub-program"
"Evaluation of the Access of Indigenous People's to the Health
System of Sao Paulo"
"Art, Culture and Leisure in Hospitals"
"Computerized Systems for the Management of Health Equipment": (ASEQ)
"Evaluation of Municipalization in Greater Sao Paulo": (Institute of Health)



"Evaluation of the PGI (Programa de Gerenciamento Integrado)"
"Implementation of a System for the Evaluation and Control
of Breast Cancer in the State of Sao Paulo": (Oncocentro)
"Study of Routine Information Systems for Accidents and
Work-related Illnesses"
"Work-related Risks for Lung Cancer"
"Prevention of AIDS and Drug Use in the City of Sao Paulo"
"Epidemiological Study of Infection of HIV-1 and HIV-2 among
Prostitutes in Sao Paulo"
"Decentralization of Investigation to the Local Level" (includes
eighteen subprojects)



