Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4447a-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
1. SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
2. NATIONAL HEALTH POLICY STUDIES
May 30, 1984
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00        = Cr$1265 a/
Cr$100         = US$0.079
Cr$1 million   = US$790.51
FISCAL YEAR
(Federal, State and Municipal Governments and INAMPS)
January 1 - December 31
a/ Average selling rate for March, 1984.



FOR, OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
1. SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
2. NATIONAL HEALTH POLICY STUDIES
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
ABBREVIATIONS
DEFINITIONS
NOTE                                                               v
I.  INTRODUCTION                                                       1
II. SECTOR BACKGROUND                                                  2
A. Population, Health, and Nutrition in Brazil. . . . . . . . .  2
. Status .............   .... ........    2
. National Institutions and Policies . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
. National Health Resources. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  6
. Health Sector Issues .......... ..... .                       7
.Project Rationale. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
B. The Health Sector in Sao Paulo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
.  General.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  9
.Population, Health and Nutrition Status. . . . . . . . . .   10
.Health Sector Institutions and Resources . . . . . . . . .   11
.Health Manpower. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
.Health Costs and Financing ...... . . . .  .....               13
.Health Sector Issues ........... . . .  .  .  .  .    14
C. Health Care Strategy in Sao Paulo. . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
. A New Model of Basic Health Services . . . . . . . . . . .   15
III. THE PROJECT                                                       17
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE                                       17
A. Objectives. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
B.   Components.   .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .   .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  17
C. Description ................... . ..                           18
D. Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, consisting of
Messrs. J. Andreu, P.W. Whitford, W. De Geyndt, 0. Echeverri, B.J. Hubert,
W.P. McGreevey and Mrs. M.V. Lister, which visited Brazil in November-
December 1982; the report was updated by Dr. Echeverri with additional
information obtained in post-appraisal missions from June, 1983 to January,
1984.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worlcl Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
NATIONAL HEALTH POLICY STUDIES                                          24
A. Objectives. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
B. Description  .         .  .  .  .  ..   . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING                                              25
A. Cost Estimate ...  .       .  .  .  .    . .....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   25
B. Financing Plan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
C. Procurement ...  .  .      .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   27
D. Disbursements ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   29
E. Accounts and Audits ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   30
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGFMENT                                               31
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE                                            31
A. Organization. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
B. Management. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
C. Technical Assistance. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .   33
D. Staffing and Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
E. Maintenance. . .. . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . .   34
F. Monitoring and Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
NATIONAL HEALTH POLICY STUDIES                                          35
A. Organization and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS                                               35
A. Impact on Health Status. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
B. Impact on Health Costs .......  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .   .  36
C. Environmental Impact .......  ...  ..  ...  ..  ..   .  37
D. Project Risks  ........   . .............  .  37
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                                   37
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
NATIONAL HEALTR POLICY STUDIES   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40



-3-
Page No.
ANNEXES                                                                  41
1 - Supplementary Data on Brazil
2 - Supplementary Data on Sao Paulo
3 - Project Services and Facilities
4 - Project Cost Estimates and Financing
5 - Project Implementation Data
6 - Key Indicators - Project Impact
7 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD 17283R - Sao Paulo Health Project
IBRD 17284R - Maua
IBRD 17285R - Caieiras
IBRD 17286R - Cotia
IBRD 17287R - Freguesia do 0
IBRD 17288R - Itaquera - Guaianazes






- i -
ABBREVIATIONS
BANESPA    -     Banco do Estado de Sao Paulo - Bank of the Sao Paulo State
BEMFAM     -      Sociedade Civil Bem-Estar Familiar no Brasil -Organization
for Family Welfare in Brazil
CIMS       -     Municipal Interinstitutional Health Commission
CIPLAN     -     Comissao Interministerial de Planejamento e Coordenacao
Interministerial Planning and Coordinating Commission.
CIS/SES    -     Centro de Informagao de Saude - Health Information Center
(of SES)
CIS        -     Interinstitutional Health Commission
CNRH       -      Centro Nacional de Recursos Humanos - National Human
Resources Center
CONASP     -      Conselho Consultivo da Administra,ao de Saude
Previdenciaria - Consultative Council on the
Administration of Health Insurance
CRIS       -     Regional Interinstitutional Health Commission
EMPLASA    -     Empresa Metropolitana de Planejamento do Grande Sao Paulo
- Metropolitan Planning Body
FAS        -      Fundo de Apoio do Desenvolvimento Social - Fund for Social
Development Assistance
FGV        -     Funda,ao Getulio Vargas - Getulio Vargas Foundation
FINSOCIAL  -     Fundo do Investimento Social - Fund for Social Investment
FUNDES     -     Funda,ao de Saude - Health Foundation
GSP        -     Grande Sao Paulo - Greater Sao Paulo
HRC        -     Human Resources Center (of SES)
ICB        -     International Competitive Bidding
IBGE       -     Fundacao Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estadisticas
- Brazilian Institute for Geography and Statistics
INAMPS     -     Instituto Nacional de Assistgncia Medica da Previdencia
Social - National Social Security Institute for Medical
Assistance
INAN       -      Instituto Nacional de Alimentagao e Nutrii;ao -
National Institute of Food and Nutrition
INPS       -      Instituto Nacional de Previdencia Social -- National
Institute of Social Security
IPEA       -     Instituto de Planejamento Economico e Social - Social and
Economic Planning Institute
LCB        -     Local Competitive Bidding
MCH        -     Maternal and Child Health Care
M&E        -     Monitoring and Evaluation
MHP        -     Metropolitan Health Program
MOH        -     Ministerio de Saude - Ministry of Health
MPAS       -     Ministerio da Previdencia e Assistencia Scocial - Ministry
of Social Insurance and Assistance
MSP        -     Municipio de Sao Paulo - Municipality of 'Sao Paulo
PIASS      -     Programa de Interiorizagao das Acoes de Saude e Saneamento
- Program for Grassroots Health and Sanitation Actions
PMU              Project Management Unit



- ii -
SEPLAN     -      Secretaria de Planejamento - Secretariat of Planning (of
the Office of the President of the Republic)
SABESP     -      Companhia de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao Paulo -
Basic Sanitation Company of Sao Paulo State
SEADE      -      Fundacao Sistema Estadual de Analise de Dados - State
Foundation for Data Analysis
SES        -      Secretaria de Estado da Saude - Secretariat of Health (Sao
Paulo State)
SHS        -      Secretaria de Higiene e Saude - Secretariat of Hygiene and
Health (of the Municipality of Sao Paulo)
UBS        -      Unidade Basica de Saude - Basic Health Unit



- iii -
DEFINITIONS
Child Death Rate             : The number of deaths among children one to
four years of age per 1,000 children in that
age group in a given year.
Contraceptive Prevalence   : The percentage of married women in
Rate                           reproductive ages who are using a modern
method of contraception at any given point in
time.
Crude Birth Rate            : Number of births per 1,000 population in a
given year.
Crude Death Rate             : Number of deaths per 1,000 population in a
given year.
Dependency Ratio             : Ratio of population 14 years. or under and
65 or over, to population aged 15 to 64
years, multiplied by 100. Indicates pro-
portion of population that aeeds to be econo-
mically supported.
Incidence  Rate             : The number of persons contracting a disease
as a proportion of the population at risk,
per unit of time usually expressed per 1000
persons per year.
Infant Mortality Rate       : The number of deaths of infants under one
year of age in a given year per 1,000 live
births in that year.
Life Expectancy at Birth   : The average number of years an infant would
live if the current age/sex--specific
mortality trends prevailing at the
time of birth were to continue.
Maternal Mortality Rate    : The number of deaths to women who die due to
pregnancy and childbearing complications in a
given year per 100,000 live births in that
year.
Morbidity                    : The frequency of disease and illness
in a population.
Neonatal Mortality Rate    : The number of deaths of infants under 28 days
of age in a given year per 1,000 live births
in that year.



- iv -
Perinatal Mortality Rate               The number of fetal deaths after 28
weeks of pregnancy (late fetal deaths)
and of infant deaths under 7 days of
age per 1,000 live births in that
year.
Prevalence Rate                     : The number of persons having a par-
ticular disease at a given point in
time per population at risk. Usually
expressed per 1000 persons per year.
Rate of Natural Increase               The rate aLt which a population is
increasing (or decreasing) in a given
year due to a surplus (or deficit) of
births over deaths, expressed as a
percentage of the total population.
Total Fertility Rate                   The average number of children that
would be born alive to a woman during
her lifetime if she were to pass
through her childbearing years conform-
ing to the age-specific fertility rates
of a given year.



v -
NOTE
The Brazil Second Health Project was originally named Sao Paulo
Health Project and has always included two main subjects which will be
described as sub-projects in this report: (a) a Basic Health Care
Sub-project for the metropolitan region of Sao Paulo, and (b) a National
Health Policy Studies Sub-project under the jurisdiction of the Federal
Government. The original intention was that a single loan would be made to
the Federative Republic of Brazil which would pass on to the State the part
for the Sao Paulo Basic Health Care Sub-project, under a subsidiary loan
agreement. However, as a result of the decision made by the Federative
Republic of Brazil that Bank financing for the Sao Paulo Basic Health Care
Sub-project be treated under a separate loan to the State of Sao Paulo, a
two-loan approach to the financing of this Second Health Project has been
adopted: the first loan will be to the State of Sao Paulo for carrying out
the Sao Paulo Basic Health Care Sub-project and the second one to the
Federative Republic of Brazil for carrying out the National Health Policy
Studies Sub-project. These sub-projects are related but they will be
implemented by different jurisdictional institutions; thus, no
cross-effectiveness or cross-default clauses have been established by the
two loans.






BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
1. SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
2. NATIONAL HEALTH POLICY STUDIES
Staff Appraisal Report
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The governments of the Federative Republic of Brazil and the
State of Sao Paulo have requested Bank assistance in financing a second
health project for (a) improving health, and the cost-effectiveness of
health services delivery in underserved parts of the metropolitan area of
Greater Sao Paulo, and (b) developing studies to assist the Government on
health policy formulation throughout Brazil. (See NOTE page v). The
project will be the second free-standing health project in Brazil to be
assisted by the Bank, the first being the Northwest Health Project in the
State of Rondonia (Loan 2061-BR). Both project build upon the experience
gained in the implementation of 17 health components in different
development projects in the Northeast and the Northwest of Brazil, and on
the Nutrition Research and Development Project (Loan 1302-BR).  The project
would also be the first urban health project to be supported by the Bank.
1.02      The project was identified in 1979 by the Secretariat of Health
of the State of Sao Paulo (SES), which carried out the initial
preparation.  In mid-1982, a Special Commission was established by the
State Governor to prepare the project, including staff from SES, the
Secretariat of Hygiene and Health of the Municipality of Sao Paulo (SHS),
the social security agency (INAMPS) and others. The Commission's Summary
Project Preparation Report is dated January, 1983. With the change of
State Government in March 1983, the Special Commission lapsed and the
finalization of project preparation fell to the State Secretary of Planning
and Economy, who chaired an Inter-Institutional Council of the State and
Municipal Secretaries of Health and the INAMPS Regional Superintendent.
The Council appointed an Executive Group to continue project preparation
until August 1983. Then a Project Manager was appointed and a Project
Management Unit was established in October 1983. Subsequently, a set of
National Health Policy Studies was prepared by various federal agencies,
coordinated by the Federal Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN), in
consultation with the Bank. Bank staff gave considerable technical
assistance to those preparing the project.



- 2 -
II. SECTOR BACKGROUJND
A. Population, Health and Nutrition in Brazil
Status
2.01      Population Trends. Brazil's populaticin of about 120 million is
unevenly spread over the country's 8.5 million km2, with population
densities ranging from two inhabitants per km2 in the Amazon basin to 56
inhabitants per km2 in the Southeast. The population growth rate declined
from 2.9% (1960-70) to 2.5% in the 1970-80 decade. The total fertility
rate is 4.1, well above replacement levels. The most salient demographic
characteristic is heavy migration of rural poor to mostly urban areas (1.5
to 2 million people each year) and, within the latter, from smaller to
larger cities. This process has affected all regions of the country,
including the Northeast (the urban population of which doubled to one-half
of the total in the last 30 years) and the frontier region of the North and
Northwest, where about two-thirds of recent migrants are moving to cities
and towns. In 1980, there were fewer Brazilians living in rural areas than
in 1970 or in 1960. Within urban areas, the ten largest metropolitan
centers grew more quickly than small and medium-sized towns and cities.
Urban dwellers represented 68% of total population, with an average growth
rate of 4.1% in the 1970s. Total fertility has been declining since the
1960's, due mainly to older age of mothers at first birth, and increased
use of contraceptives, especially in the most developed states where about
60% of married women of reproductive age use contraceptives compared to 30%
in the Northeast.
2.02      Health Status. Health conditions in the country are generally
poor, considering Brazil's overall level of development. Life expectancy
at birth is 64 years, or comparable to Colombia and Mexico, countries with
lower per capita income than Brazil. The infant mortality rate is
estimated at 77 per 1000 live births, significantly higher than for
Colombia and Mexico (56/1000). The above averages vary widely by regions
and by income levels. For example, infant mortality is over 100 per 1,000
live births in the Northeast region as a whole. Life expectancy in the
South and among the well-to-do is about 12 to 15 years longer than among
the rural poor. In most parts of the country, dliarrheal diseases are the
leading cause of death, with respiratory diseases and perinatal causes also
prominent. Rates of infection from some diseases preventable by vaccination
(diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough) in Brazil are four to six times the
rate in Mexico, while the prevalence of measles is comparable and only
polio is better controlled in Brazil. Tuberculosis and leprosy are still
prevalent. Malaria and Chagas' disease (the South American form of
sleeping sickness) are also widespread in the Northeast and Northwest.
Schistosomiasis affects about 7 million people. Further statistics are
given in Annex 1, Tables 1-5.
2.03      The high-income urban core areas of the South and Southeast
exhibit health conditions similar to those prevailing in industrial
societies, with a high incidence of cardiovascular problems, tumors and
diseases associated with old age. Conversely, the poor rural areas of the
Northeast and the Amazon, as well as low-income peri-urban areas throughout
Brazil, show a high incidence of infectious and parasitic diseases and
perinatal death typical of low-income countries.



- 3 -
2.04       Nutrition Status. Only one-third of the country's population is
estimated to meet the FAO/WHO calorie requirements. Only 53% of children
five years of age could be considered adequately nourished (defined as
weighing more than 90% of the median weight for the age), while 33% of
children of the same age suffer from first degree, 13% from second degree
and 1% from third degree, malnutrition. Malnutrition has its most severe
impact on infants and children, especially in poor peri-urban areas and in
rural areas of the North and Northeast (Annex 1, Table 6). For example,
nearly 4% of infants under six months in the Northeast suffer from
third-degree malnutrition. Studies carried out since 1972 show that,
during the 1960s and early 1970s in the Northeast, the urban poor had a
lower nutritional status than the rural poor (1,400 vs. 1,650 cal per
capita energy availability). By 1975, the percentage of the rural
population with adequate diets was four times higher than for urban people
in the Northeast and more than twice as high in the Southeast. A major
contributing factor to infant malnutrition is the short duration of
breastfeeding in all regions of Brazil. The median duration varies from
one month in the southeast and some northeastern cities, such as Recife, to
perhaps three months in more traditional areas.  Raising this median to six
months would not only have direct nutrition benefits but considerable
health benefits as well. Studies in Sao Paulo, carried out under the
Bank's Nutrition Project, show that the decline in breastfeeding is most
commonly due to a lack of confidence by mothers in the quality of their
milk, as a result of a lack of knowledge, reinforced by the attitudes of
the medical profession, difficulties of working mothers to breastfeed their
children, and the heavy advertising of substitutes, leading to early
supplementation and the consequent loss of the mother's milk and early
weaning.
National Institutions and Policies
2.05      Institutions. Throughout this century, Brazil has had a
pluralistic approach to health care delivery, involving a number of
agencies in the public and private sectors. The oldest of the public
health sector institutions is the federal Ministry of Health (MOH), which
started in 1904 as the Public Health Directorate subordinated to the
Ministry of Justice and then transformed into the National Public Health
Department attached to the Ministry of Education. In 1953 it became MOH
and the State Health Secretariats began to be established. MOH
concentrates on communicable disease control especially on malaria,
schistosomiasis and Chagas disease, while the states historically focussed
on tuberculosis, leprosy and immunopreventable diseases. In more recent
years, MOH has begun to support the states in more comprehensive programs
of primary health care, nutrition, medical research and in special programs
for frontier and border areas.
2.06      The other major public health sector institution is the National
Social Security Institute for Medical Assistance (INAMPS), which was
created in 1967 by merging several social security programs for particular
groups of workers, which started in the 1920s. INAMPS, along with other
institutes administering retirement and disability pensions, is supervised
by the Ministry of Social Insurance and Assistance (MPAS) but enjoys a high
degree of financial and operational autonomy. Prior to the 1970s, the
predecessors to INAMPS relied mainly on a network of owned clinics and
hospitals to serve their subscribers. However, the rapid expansion of
coverage in recent years led INAMPS to contract with the private sector for



about 56% of all services. INAMPS is financed by a payroll tax for wage
earners and equivalent taxes of the self-employed and its subscribers
include, in some sense, 90% of all Brazilians. However, its ability to
supply services is quite limited outside the major urban centers.
2.07      The respective jurisdictions of MOH and MPAS are laid down in the
Law 6229 of 1975: MOH is responsible for national health policy and for
collective health programs, whereas MPAS aims t:o provide individual medical
care, though this distinction is now blurring. Coordination between the
two agencies remains inadequate. Both ministries, together with the
Ministry of Education, are represented on a coordinating committee (CIPLAN)
which could be more effective in coordinating health policy if the federal
Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN) were represent:ed.
2.08      At the state level, the SESs are tradlitionally oriented to
infectious diseases control and maternal and child health (MCH) care.
Remaining health services are provided largely by the private sector,
generally reimbursed by INAMPS. The SESs frequently lack planning and
managerial capability and are characterized by a lack of dynamism,
unattractive employment conditions, weak supervision and logistic systems.
Municipal governments provide basic health services but most of the 4,000
odd municipal administrations are so poorly managed and funded that their
health services are limited to providing small additional funds for the
state-managed health activities and to operating ambulance services.
Notable exceptions to this are municipalities in large, industrialized
metropolitan areas, such as Sao Paulo, which are financially strong and
have developed their own independent health services.
2.09       Originally, the private sector consisted mainly of hospitals run
by religious or charitable foundations or universities and physicians in
private practice. In recent years, there has been a massive growth of
profit-making enterprises in the health sector, often established by
subsidized loans from the federal Fund for Social Development Assistance
(FAS). The private sector caters both to the small group which can pay for
their own services (less than 10% of the population) and to INAMPS
beneficiaries.
2.10      Population Policies.  Official population policy was, until 1974,
pronatalist. In 1974, Brazil took a neutral stance in the World Population
Conference, asserting that family planning should be decided by the couple,
and should not be a privilege of affluent families. Federal authorities
also have tacitly approved family planning programs organized by the
Sociedade Civil Bem-Estar Familiar no Brasil (BEMFAM) in the last 18 years.
But it was not until 1977 that the Government formally announced a family
planning program for women with probabilities of high health risk
pregnancies. In 1979, the Government legalized the advertising of
contraceptives, but maintained the penalty for advertising abortion. In
1983, the First Congress on Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning
recommended that the Government, complemented by private institutions,
should provide the means for Brazilians to plan the size of their families,
and proposed the creation of a national agency to coordinate a national
family planning program. Soon after, the Minister of Health announced the
Women's Integral Health Care Program which will be gradually implemented
starting on the Northeast in 1984 and covering the whole country by 1988.
Family planning is included as part of a full range of maternal and child
services. The philosophy underlying the program was that "family planning



- 5 -
should be given its appropriate place in the context of health programs and
should neither be seen as a solution to social and economic problems nor
have its interface with the health sector ignored". The program is to be
financed largely with Brazilian resources, though the Ministry of Health
has requested a grant of US$12 million from the United Nations Fund for
Population Activities (UNFPA).
2.11      Family planning is widely practiced throughout Brazil,
particularly in urban areas, and this is resulting in substantially lower
birth rates. Contraceptive methods are used by about 30% of married women
in the poorer northeastern states, compared to over 60% in the most
developed states (Annex 1, Table 7 and 8). The private sector has played a
major role in increasing the availability of contraceptives in the country,
both through commercial channels and through voluntary agencies, the most
important being BEMFAM.
2.12      Health policies.  There is at present considerable interest on
the part of the government to redress the inequity and inefficiency of the
health care system by improving resource use, resource allocation and
coverage. Prospects are good that appropiate policy changes could be
implemented in the near future. National strategies already implemented
include:
(a) the introduction in 1976 of PIASS (a program to bring basic
health and sanitation activities to communities of less than 20
thousand people) in the Northeast. The program's main elements
are: establishment of a network of mini-health posts and health
centers; reliance on auxiliary health personnel as service
providers; and the use of INAMPS' funds to cover recurrent costs
of primary health services (the first entry of INAMPS into the
primary health care field). PIASS is supported by referral
health centers (Unidades mistas), and local or regional
hospitals, though this aspect of the system is still weak.
Extension of the PIASS program to the rest of the country has
been a legally established objective since 1979;
(b) the Curitiba plan, in the state of Parana -- a reorientation of
health services in which patients' point of entry into the system
is the health center and from there they are referred to upper
level private and public facilities only as needed. INAMPS makes
fixed payments for given procedures rather than fee-for-service;
(c) implementation since 1982 of CONASP (Consultative Council on
Health Insurance Administration) recommendations for: full
utilization of the existing public sector facilities, with the
health post or center as the normal point of entry; improvement
of training and utilization of personnel; extension of coverage
to rural and peri-urban areas through reimbursement of public
sector agencies; progressive decentralization coordinated by a
state Commission including MPAS/MOH/SES; strengthening the
managerial capacity of the public sector; and implementation of
new accounting systems aiming at a rational control of costs, and
at curtailing abuses. Although CONASP's recommendations are now
being implemented, such fundamental changes will require phased
introduction over a number of years to complete; and



- 6 -
(d) establishment in 1982 of a fund, FINSOCIAL, from earmarked
revenues, to support programs in the social sectors.
2.13      Two recent developments in health policy should be mentioned:
first, the growing decentralization of health services-- "municipalization"
-- and the MOH national program - PERIURBANO - to expand the basic health
services network in marginal urban areas. The Northeast has been chosen as
priority area for implementing PERIURBANO and for strengthening PIASS.
2.14      Nutrition Policies.  The basic principle of government nutrition
policies is that improvement of nutritional status depends largely on a
reduction of costs of producing and marketing basic foods and on better
distribution of income. The National Institute of Food and Nutrition
(INAN) is the federal agency in charge of execu-ting MOH nutrition
policies. MPAS and the Ministry of Education have also important nutrition
programs. Presently, INAN acts largely as a channeling agency, as its
programs are mostly executed by state governments, the Brazilian Food
Company (COBAL) and others. Nutrition policies are given effect in about
twelve federal nutrition programs, grouped into four categories: feeding
programs; food distribution; nutrition education; and income transfer. In
the past five years, the government has given strong budgetary support to
feeding programs and less to food distribution and health education. The
income transfer programs are new, quite small and somewhat experimental.
The Bank-financed Nutrition Research and Development project has
provided the basis for improving nutrition policies and programs in the
country. The project has recently been complei:ed and a project completion
report is under preparation. As a result of the project, Brazil is in a
better position than before to launch a seriouS effort against malnutri-
tion. Several programs initiated under the project (i.e., the preschool
feeding program and two consumer food subsidy programs operating through
commercial channels) are being expanded by the Government, taking account
of lessons learned under the project. However, the project has fallen
short of its institution-building objectives as the National Institute of
Food and Nutrition, which was supported under the project, has still to
become an effective framework for planning and coordinating the
implementation of food and nutrition policies and actions.
National Health Resources
2.15      Health Facilities.  In 1980, Brazil had 2,918 health posts, 2,506
health centers, 405 "unidades mistas" (health centers with some basic
inpatient services), to provide basic health services in 3,431
municipalities; and 450 thousand hospital beds to serve the entire country,
or 3.5 beds per 1000 people, a ratio well above the average of 2 per 1000
for Latin America. About half of all health facilities and 85% of all
specialty care institutions belong to the private sector and are mainly
located in urban areas.  One-fifth of all hospitalizations and one-tenth of
all medical consultations occurred in the rural areas which accounts for
one-third of total population. These figures show that Brazil has a
reasonable network of health facilities but with uneven distribution. This
is aggravated by a low productivity, excess of sophisticated medical
technology, scarce simple high quality health care, and uncoordinated roles
of health care providers. The government has partially responded to these
issues with the CGONASP, PIASS, and PERIURBANO programs (paras. 2.12, 2.13).



-7-
2.16      Health Manpower.  Brazil created 29 medical schools in 152 years
(1808-1960), and 37 new ones in 6 years (1965-71). This dramatic expansion
of training facilities increased the supply of doctors from 1,537 per year
in 1965 up to 8,284 per year in 1975. In 1981, the estimated number of
doctors in the country was about 108,000, with uneven distribution patterns
ranging from 1 per 4,000 people in the Northeast to 1 per 600 in Rio. In
1981 Brazil had 33,000 doctors unemployed or underemployed as a consequence
of the growing output of the medical schools. By contrast, there were
about 18,000 nurses in 1980, or 15 per 10,000 people, a ratio well below
the 27 per 10,000 average in Latin America. Auxiliary nurses have a better
representation with a total of about 91,000, or 9 per 10,000 people,
roughly the same ratio as in Latin America.
2.17      Health Financing.  Brazil is now spending an estimated 4% of
Gross Domestic Product (excluding the private sector) on health services,
which is similar to other middle income countries and not far behind some
industrialized countries (Annex 1, Table 9). However, this proportion has
risen rather rapidly from 1% of GDP in 1949 to 2.5% in 1976. In 1982,
federal expenditure on health was US$3.48 billion, of which INAMPS
accounted for 85%, MOH 10% and other ministries 5%. Per capita expenditure
on health in Brazil in 1982 was about US$30, excluding state, local, and
private non-INAMPS expenditures. While these averages are appropriate to a
country at Brazil's level of development, they mask important imbalances
between primary, secondary and tertiary care and between geographical
regions.
2.18      In Brazil, primary health care (to the extent that it is
provided) corresponds to the programs of MOH and the SESs or about 15% of
all health expenditures. Because of the inadequacy of these services,
secondary care services are overused, thus adding to its costs, and partly
explaining its 20% growth rate in recent years. Until policies were
recently changed, about 5% of Brazil's national health expenditure was
spent on coronary bypasses and renal dialysis for a few thousand patients.
2.19      Geographical disparities affect both revenues and expenditures.
In 1982, the Southeast region accounted for 44% of the national population
but generated 63% of INAMPS tax revenue (Annex 1, Tables 10-11). The fact
that only 53% of INAMPS expenditures were made in this region shows that
there is some redistribution within the system. The Northeast region has
29% of the population, generates 9% of the revenues and receives 17% of
INAMPS services. The small MOH budget is also slanted to the poorer states
but the fact remains that health expenditures are highest in the richer
states which already have better health status.
Health Sector Issues
2.20      Brazil has made substantial progress in developing its health
care system.  Nearly all citizens have access to some measure of health
care.  The aggregate level of funding is appropriate to Brazil's level of
development and the supply of skilled manpower is not a critical
constraint. However, significant problems remain; the major ones being
equity of access to health services between income groups and geographical
areas; and efficiency in the allocation of financial and manpower
resources. A second level of issues includes: planning and management
capacity; inter-agency coordination; the roles of the public and private
sector; fraud and abuse in the existing financing system; conflict of



-8-
interest; and inappropriate training of personnel. Because of these
problems, Brazil is not achieving the health status that its financial and
manpower resources would suggest.
2.21      Equity.  Whether one looks at health expenditure, staff, numbers
of health posts and centers, or hospital beds, there are wide discrepancies
between states (Annex 1, Tables 9-15) and even wider variations if one
looks at smaller areas - such as remote rural areas, spontaneous rural
settlements and the rapidly growing fringes of the major cities. As the
health indicators (Annex 1, Tables 2-5) show, these underserved poverty
areas are characterized by high fertility, frequent diarrheal and
respiratory diseases, malaria and malnutrition, all of which could be
improved through low cost means. The growth of such a system has been
constrained by the bias among policy-makers andl the medical profession in
general towards higher-cost, curative care, particularly in urban areas, as
shown by the relative growth of INAMPS compared with MOH. This bias is now
changing (para. 2.18).
2.22      Efficiency.  The decreasing share of funding for primary health
care has obvious efficiency implications, resuLting in a rapid increase in
other health care expenditures with only modest improvements in health
status. A root cause of these problems was the system of reimbursement by
INAMPS (which is now in the process of change) on the basis of
fee-for-service, which encouraged the use of urnecessary procedures (for
example, 30% of all births in Sao Paulo are by cesarian section, whereas
only about 10% might be medically indicated), the installation of expensive
equipment, overuse of laboratory tests and X-rays and excessive
specialization of physicians.
2.23      Planning and management capacity in the health sector is weaker
than in other sectors in Brazil. There is also little coordination between
agencies in the operation of programs, leading to overlaps in some areas
and gaps in others. With the encouragement of past governments, the
private sector has grown from its traditional role of provider to the
richer classes to a much broader role as a prirLcipal provider of health
services to the general population, through INAMPS reimbursement. Until
recently, there were few controls on the use of this mandate by the private
sector and fraud and abuse abounded. Recent audits of physician and
hospital bills submitted to INAMPS for payment found "irregularities" in
90% of all bills.
2.24      A major cause of high costs in the health system is what
Brazilians refer to as a dupla militancia, or conflict of interest, which
riddles the system. Virtually every physician works for at least one
public health facility in addition to a private facility. Typically they
use their employment in public clinics as a means to recruit patients into
a private facility in which, from the doctor's point of view, he can offer
better-quality service on a fee-for-service basis, and in which the client
can enjoy more personal attention. The physician can also control service
delivery and profit therefrom in the private facility. Thus, public sector
facilities were, in 1981, responsible for about 43% of medical and dental
consultations but for only 10% of hospital admissions.
2.25      The Bank supports the Government's plans for improving the equity
and efficiency of the health system and expects that future Bank-assisted
projects will likely incorporate both objectives. The Bank's sector and
project work will assist Brazil in these areas.



-9-
Project Rationale
2.26      There are several reasons why a project directed at the
poor areas of Greater Sao Paulo (GSP), and at improving policy formulation
is a logical step in addressing Brazil's many pressing health needs. These
include:
(a) the health needs in GSP are not too dissimilar to those of Brazil
as a whole. While average health status is not as bad as in many
rural areas, it is much worse than the level one would expect in
a fairly developed metropolitan area. Furthermore, the need for
coordination of services, improved management, cost control and
manpower planning are more acute than elsewhere;
(b) there is a strong commitment to changing the orientation and
expanding the coverage of health services in Sao Paulo at the
municipal, state, and federal levels, as shown by the development
of a tripartite project preparation team (para. 1.02); and
(c) a successful health delivery system in GSP and improved federal
policy analysis would facilitate the adoption of new approaches
in basic health care and health policy for the country, because
of Sao Paulo's position as a trend setter, and because of better
foundations for national policy change.
2.27      The analysis below complements the rationale for this health
project as a logical step in addressing GSP health needs and the country's
health sector issues and strategies.
B. The Health Sector in Sao Paulo
General
2.28      Presently, one-half of the 12.6 million population of GSP is
officially considered poor (earning less than five minimum salaries). The
high mobility of the population inside the metropolitan area, particularly
among poor neighborhoods, contributes to urban chaos and weak social
cohesion. This "metropolization" of life creates a paradoxical social
isolation in densely populated areas and makes it difficult for people
living in the periphery to gain access to services such as health, which
are concentrated in the inner part of the metropolitan area.
2.29      For planning purposes, Sao Paulo Municipality (MSP) could be
divided into three zones: the core area contains 1.1 million people (13% of
the total) and is characterized by a dense and slowly growing population
and a high standard of building construction and social services. The
intermediate zone has 1.7 million people (20%) and contains a mixture of
industry, good and poor housing, and varying levels of social services.
The peripheral zone has 5.7 million inhabitants (67%) in a range of
densities but with rapid growth rates. This is where most of the recent
immigrants have settled, some in squatter settlements (favelas), others in
high-density low standard dwellings. Utilities, transport and social
services have not been able to keep up with the growth of these dormitory
areas, which frequently lack local industry and other employment. The
municipalities surrounding MSP share many of the characteristics of the
peripheral zone, apart from a few richer ones.



- 10 -
Population, Health and Nutrition Status
2.30      Population.  As a result of accelerated industrial and urban
expansion during the last thirty years, the population of the Sao Paulo
state is at present concentrated in the cities (89%). The metropolitan
region of Greater Sao Paulo (GSP) covers only 8,053 km2 but contains 12.6
million people (1980), a population density of: 1,562 inhabitants/km2. This
is about 10% of Brazil's population:  About two-thirds of GSP's population
lives in Sao Paulo Municipality (MSP), the remainder in 36 other
municipalities mostly quite small (Map IBRD 17283R). The GSP average
annual population growth rate of 4.5% for the 1970s was almost twice that
of the country as a whole (2.4%). However, about half this growth was from
migration, which is adding 280,000 people per year to GSP. At the same
time, the downward trend in the crude birth rcate, which decreased from
33.4/1000 in 1960 to 26.5/1000 in 1970 was reversed, increasing to 30.5
live births per thousand population in 1980, due to the influx of
immigrants, who are younger, less educated and with lower income than the
general population. This important change in fertility coincided with
others in mortality, especially infant mortality (see para 2.33).
2.31      Recent research on fertility and contraceptive use in Sao Paulo
State showed that over one-half of women of reproductive age were using
effective contraceptives. Oral contraceptives are the most widely used
method through the 15-49 age range (Annex 1, Table 8). However, amongst
the poorest groups (especially recent immigrants), knowledge of family
planning practices is limited and their access to private sector sources of
information and supplies (in the absence of public sector concern) is
constrained.
2.32      Health.  Because of disparities in incomes and services, the
periphery of MSP and the other periurban municipalities of GSP do not
differ greatly in health status from that encountered among the poor
elsewhere in Brazil and in developing countries in general, whereas the
core area presents an improved health pattern similar to that of some
developed countries.
2.33      There has been a downward trend in the GSP crude death rate from
8.6 per thousand in 1960 to 7.1 per thousand in 1980. Infant mortality
rates, after bottoming out at 61 per thousand live births in 1961, suffered
a reversal and reached 95 per thousand in 1973, after which they declined
again to 64 per thousand in 1980. These mortality trends were inversely
related to the real wage index trends between 1.963 and 1979 as well as to
decreasing shares of public health expenditures allocated for preventive
services (from 64% in 1965 to 16% in 1980). Infant mortality rates vary
from 42 per thousand in the core area to 175 in one of the peri-urban
municipalities.
2.34      Infectious diseases account for one-third of all infant deaths in
the core area and almost one-half of infant deaths in the periphery.
Infant death rates for enteritis, diarrhea and pneumonia in the periphery
of Sao Paulo are similar (about 1200 per 100,000 population) and are twice
higher than in the core area. Neonatal deaths predominated over late
infant deaths in the more affluent areas (core and intermediate), while the
reverse has been true for the periphery of Sao Paulo. This pattern
confirms that basic services, such as MCH care and immunizations, are less
adequate in the periphery of MSP and other municipalities than in the
central area.



- 11 -
2.35      While cardiovascular diseases remain the leading cause of death
in all three areas, they make up 20% of total deaths in the core area and
only 10% in the periphery. In contrast, pneumonia is the fourth leading
cause of death in the core area (10% of total deaths) while it shares the
first place with cardiovascular diseases (10% of total deaths) in the
peripheral area.
2.36      The incidence of immuno-preventable diseases has dropped in the
last five years due to special vaccination campaigns, but the incidence of
polio and measles is comparatively higher in the periphery and other
municipalities than in the core area. The fact that 80% of cases of
typhoid fever reported in MSP in 1980 occurred in peripheral areas
underlines the poor sanitary conditions and food control in the periphery.
In a study of hospitalized patients in Sao Paulo during a four month period
(Annex 2, table 4), 95% of diagnoses corresponded to common morbidity
problems for which admissions could be substantially reduced with more
efficient and effective ambulatory care services. Another study carried out
in 1980 showed that 12.7% of babies born in public maternity hospitals have
low birth weight, compared to 9.0% in private hospitals, indicating the
lesser access of poorer mothers to antenatal care. It is considered that
23% of children 6 to 60 months of age suffer from mild malnutrition and
2.2% have moderate to severe malnutrition. These figures jump to 37% and 9%
respectively, in children of families with the lowest incomes, who live
mainly in the periphery of Sao Paulo.
Health Sector Institutions and Resources
2.37      State and Metropolitan health services are the responsibility of
several institutions, which lack coordination in planning, management and
service delivery. MOH activities consist of financial support to the
programs carried out by the State Secretariat of Health (SES). MPAS health
programs are carried out mainly through INAMPS, which provides services to
GSP: (i) directly, through its own network of health facilities consisting
of 23 ambulatory units and five general hospitals with 1,112 beds; and (ii)
indirectly, through contracts with 168 private hospitals with 17,000 beds
(104 of them also provide ambulatory and emergency care); contracts with
public institutions of the state and the municipality, unions, universities
and enterprises ("group medicine"); and contracts with 262 individual
physicians. INAMPS own facilities are highly concentrated in the core area
of MSP.
2.38      State Secretariat of Health (SES).  SES operates through four
Coordination Divisions, for community health (ambulatory services),
hospital services, specialized technical services (production of serum,
vaccines, lab tests), and mental health. SES organizes its ambulatory
services on a geographical basis, into districts and regions. However, the
health district director has no real control over financial resources and
manpower, and the health region director prepares the annual budget to be
approved by SES for the health facilities located in the several districts
of the region. The five health regions of GSP report to the Community
Health Coordination Division of SES. The hospital services of SES are
centrally managed by the Hospital Coordination Division, and are not
coordinated with the ambulatory services for patient referral. In 1980, SES
had 203 health centers and nine hospitals with 3,037 beds in the
metropolitan area, and dealt with 1.3 million ambulatory visits (out of
which more than 80% were MCH visits). The rate of occupancy of the



- 12 -
hospitals was 50%, with longer stays than in the private sector, as many of
the State hospitals are specialized in chronic diseases, such as TB and
leprosy. In addition, SES has seven mental hospitals in GSP with 5,245
beds and had contracted 1,780 more beds with private hospitals. It is
difficult to estimate SES service coverage since there is no coordination
or referral agreements among the health agencies.
2.39      Secretariat of Hygiene and Health of the Municipality of Sao
Paulo (SHS). This institution also has separate hospital and community
health (health post) services and has regionalized its services into five
technical regions, which do not coincide with the state regions.
Facilities included 56 health posts, five emergency units, seven hospitals
with 1,037 beds, and other private hospitals under contract with 1,165
beds. In 1980, SHS services produced 470,000 medical visits (all MCH), one
million emergency visits, and 54,158 hospital discharges. Laboratory
services are entirely purchased from the private sector. The public makes
greater use of the emergency units than the health posts because of a
perception of a broader range of higher quality services and the existence
of back-up facilities such as hospitals and laboratories. SHS also
operates health and sanitary inspection services.
2.40      A few of the other 36 municipalities in GSP operate full health
services (hospitals and health centers) - the best of these (Cotia) is
described in para. 2.47. The remainder contribute only with partial
personnel expenditures to the SES system or an ambulance to take patients
to the downtown area. There are nine University hospitals in GSP which are
not coordinated with the government health services. They provide the most
sophisticated services and are also used by patients with common health
problems, an inefficient use of resources. Seven hospitals with 2,146 beds
provide services to a "closed" population (civil servants or military) but
these are not coordinated with other services.
2.41      Despite the fact that there are relatively few public sector
health posts or centers in the periphery of Sao Paulo, those that exist--
whether State or Municipally run--are underutilized, typically operating at
50% or less of capacity. Significantly, INAMPS clinics do not have this
problem.  The reasons for underutilization include:
(a) a narrow range of services--basically MCH care and distribution
of nutrition supplements. Diagnostic services or treatment for
adults are very limited, and staff, especially physicians, are
not regularly available;
(b) alternative services, especially private group practices and
hospital emergency centers, are perceived as offering better care
and are often closer to work, especially for INAMPS
beneficiaries (the weaknesses of the private sector (para. 2.42)
affect less the individual user and more society as a whole);
(c) limited hours of operation, makes difficult for wage earners to
attend, and sickness certificates issued by health center doctors
are not accepted by employers;
(d) cramped, poorly equipped, unattractive buildings, often built for
another purpose compound an overall image of a second-class
health service.



- 13 -
Any expansion of public sector facilities in Sao Paulo will need to address
these problems (para. 2.49).
2.42      Private Sector.  The private sector includes: medical practice in
private offices; private hospitals; pre-paid "group medicine"; private
health insurance services; and health services provided by factories or
unions. Of a total of 223 hospitals in GSP, 193 are private. The network
of private hospitals in GSP exists mainly through contracts with INAMPS or
with "group medicine" clinics. Most of the services provided by "group
medicine" enterprises are ambulatory. They sub-contract hospital services
with the private hospital network, but dissatisfaction exists with the
quality of these services. The private sector in Sao Paulo epitomizes the
national characteristics of the sector described in paras. 2.09 and 2.20 -
curative in orientation, high-cost (but popular because it is usually
"free" to the patient), tainted by fraud and conflict of interest, and
without proper referral arrangements. However, in the areas where a
curative approach is appropriate (secondary and tertiary levels), the
sector does a good job and its best hospitals are of international
standard.
Health Manpower
2.43      One-fourth of the 108,000 physicians in Brazil, live in Sao Paulo
State and about 20,000 reside in GSP. This number is increasing by about
2,000 per year. The population/doctor ratio for GSP in 1980 was 790/1, and
it is expected to be 520/1 by 1990. The number of professional nurses
registered in Sao Paulo State increased from 3,016 in 1975 to 19,399 in
mid-1981 (a ratio of 650 people per nurse). However, a high proportion of
professional nurses work as administrators. In Sao Paulo, 95% of nurses do
graduate courses in clinical specialties, thus getting better salaries, in
some cases even above the doctors' salaries. This situation is provoking a
severe shortage of general and public health nurses, in addition to the
existing shortage of health technicians and nutritionists. The rapid
expansion of trained manpower originated in the 1960s, when the number of
faculties of medicine and nursing schools increased almost threefold with a
continued concentration in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. Students are
attracted from the metropolitan areas and expect to work there after
graduation. The curative medical care model which reigns in Sao Paulo is
becoming rapidly saturated with general practitioners and specialists.
These physicians typically have limited interest in covering large
populations with basic health services or in limiting costs, as the
curricula at most medical schools emphasize high technology medicine and
encourage specialization. This tendency is exacerbated by the low salaries
given by SES. However, partly as a result of multiple jobs (para. 2.24),
SES is able to employ 3,000 physicians and dentists, SHS 2,000 and INAMPS
1,800.
Health Costs and Financing
2.44      In 1980, the combined federal, state and municipal expenditures
for health services totalled US$683 million in the Greater Sao Paulo
region. Of this total expenditure, about 65% passed through the INAMPS
financing system, 27% was financed by the state government and 8% by
municipalities, with MSP directly responsible for three-quarters of that
total. Private health expenditures, that is, those which involved direct
payments by households to private health-care providers (including



- 14 -
drugstores) were probably at least equal to the sum of public expendi-
tures. More exact data will soon be available from the 1981 Household
Expenditure Survey. In 1980, the estimated total regional health expendi-
tures, exclusive of sanitation and environmental programs, was about
US$1,400 million, or an average per capita health expenditure of US$110 in
Greater Sao Paulo, which is high for a middle income country.
Health Sector Issues
2.45      The main issues for health improvement in Greater Sao Paulo may
be summarized as follows:
(a) rapid population growth, primarily as a result of rural-urban
migration, and extensive environmentally unhealthy areas of
substandard houses for low-income people with limited access to
basic health and family planning services;
(b) sharp contrast between the core areas of GSP, with moderate to
low infant mortality and a disease profile resembling that of
developed countries, and a peripheral area with much higher
infant mortality and a significantly greater prevalence of
diarrhea, respiratory and immuno-preventable diseases;
(c)  concentration of health facilities in the core area and in the
private sector and a trend towards higher-cost, high-technology
care for the fortunate few;
(d) three uncoordinated public sector systems, one oriented to
curative care, the others to MCH and emergency care, none with an
adequate network of facilities in the peripheral areas;
(e) underutilization of existing public facilities because of the
poor quality, limited range and low availability of services and
the existence of a "free" (but high cost) alternative; and
(f) an adequate supply of physicians and nurses but a lack of
knowledge of and interest in basic health care techniques and
poor salaries in the public sector.
C. Health Care Strategy in Sao Paulo
2.46      General.  Dissatisfaction with the current state of health
services in GSP has been building for some years - among health policy
makers and INAMPS, concerned with spiralling costs; among public health
physicians, disturbed by sector inequity and inefficiency and the
widespread prevalence of preventable diseases; among community groups in
the underserved areas; and among political leaders, responding to these
concerns. In developing a new model of services, planners were influenced
by the Cotia experience (para. 2.47), the Curitiba Plan (para. 2.12), which
showed that health services could be improved and costs lowered by more
efficient utilization and coordination of existing facilities, and the
CONASP report (para. 2.12) with its stress on primary health care and cost
control. The SHS also started small changes on the pattern of health
services, in some areas of the municipality, with a view at obtaining
feedback for possible broader changes in the system.



- 15 -
2.47      The Cotia Experience.  In 1975, a group of physicians established
a charitable foundation to construct a 54-bed hospital in the Sao Paulo
peri-urban municipality of Cotia, which was previously without health
facilities. The hospital incorporates a large health center for ambulatory
care. In subsequent years, satellite health posts were constructed in the
surrounding communities, funded by a mixture of private, municipal and
state funds. By integrating ambulatory and hospital services and by
broadening the range of services offered, the Cotia system has had
significant impact in health and expenditure terms (Annex 6, Table 2).
Infant mortality was reduced from 120/1000 live births in 1975 to 54 in
1980, no cases of polio, diphtheria or tetanus have been reported since
1976; the proportion of caesarian births has been reduced to 15% (it is
typically 30% in GSP generally) and only 15% of ambulatory visits are
treated as emergencies. In one sample of 2,000 ambulatory visits seen by a
nurse-auxiliary, only 7% were referred to a higher level. The project has
had strong support from the Kellogg Foundation (USA) and, more recently,
part of the operating cost has been reimbursed by INAMPS. This experience
indicates that much can be done to improve the functioning of health
systems in GSP, by integrating ambulatory and hospital services,
coordinating the activities of the public and private sectors, stressing
primary health care and the roles of allied health professionals, and the
active participation of INAMPS in program planning.
A New Model of Basic Health Services
2.48      Based on these experiences, the health planners developed a new
model of Basic Health Services. The new model was defined following an
epidemiological approach which considered the health needs of typical poor
families living in underserved areas of GSP. Health needs were
differentiated by age group and sex. Appropriate interventions for each
group were then defined along the natural history of each main disease or
condition (starting with interventions to avoid or decrease the risk of
disease, continuing with the provision of specific protection, screening,
clinical diagnosis and treatment, and ending with rehabilitation). The
category of worker with the appropriate skills to administer each of these
interventions was determined. Finally, the defined health interventions
were divided between those which could be self-administered (reinforced by
health promotion and education), those which can be provided through home
visiting, those needing ambulatory visits to a health unit or hospital and
finally those requiring hospitalization (see Annex 3, tables 1 and 2).
2.49      Under the new model, the root causes for the present under-
utilization of health centers (para. 2.41) will be addressed and the
excessive use of hospitalizations will be curtailed through a set of
coordinated activities, which will not only expand the scope, improve the
quality and availability of services but will also counteract the poor
image of the health centers now held by the public. These activities are:
(a) construction of well-planned, properly spaced basic health units and
hospitals, following functional and physical planning; (b) broadening the
range and improving the quality of services to meet all the basic health
needs of the population served; (c) changing the orientation of health
workers and establishing more attractive employment conditions, especially
for physicians and nurses, enforcement of hours of attendance and the
greater use of allied health professionals; (d) promotion of the services
offered, through mass media campaigns, involvement of community groups and
extension of hours of operation to permit workers to attend;



- 16 -
(e) implementation of the CONASP recommendations by changing the INAMPS
reimbursement procedures to require that the health unit be the normal
point of entry to the health system; (f) discontinuance of hospital
outpatient departments and the shift of the bulk of such services to the
basic health units; and (g) community surveillance of the operation of
health units through Community Health Councils. Organizational and
management features of the new model are treated in para. 3.03 and
Chapter V. Financial features are described in para. 4.04.
2.50      While some project impacts will be felt throughout GSP, the major
and earliest impact will be on 2.5 million people located as follows: 1.7
million in five main target areas, in which the model will be fully
developed; and 0.8 million in nine health districts of MSP, where only
ambulatory and referral services will be provided by the Basic Health
Units. Full implementation of the new model in these nine districts,
called extension points, will be part of follow-up phases that will promote
the extension of the new model to the whole GSP, building upon experience
gained under this project. The extension points were selected on the basis
of correspondence to the selection criteria below and the existence of
organized health committees that could help coordinate health services in
those health districts.
The following criteria were used to choose the project areas:
(a) areas in the periphery of the metropolis with varying
population density, known to have poor health conditions,
lack of basic health services, and strong popular demands
for improvement;
(b) areas where management collaboration between the State,
Municipality and INAMPS health services already exists or
can be rapidly obtained;
(c) areas where the new health services model and training
programs can be implemented rapidly, with minimal new
investments in buildings.
2.51      Two of the selected main target areas, the area of Freguesia do 0
(five health districts with a population of 580,000) and Itaquera-
Guaianazes (two health districts with a population of 577,000) are within
the Municipality of Sao Paulo (Maps IBRD 17287R and 17288R). The former
was chosen partly because the unusual level of cooperation between the
various public and private health services wilL allow the concept of
coordinated operation of public and private sector facilities to be
immediately tested. The latter area exhibits particularly acute shortage
of health facilities. The remaining three target areas are outside the
Municipality of Sao Paulo. They are: (a) the area of Cotia (with a
population of 63,000), the site of an existing pilot project which
pioneered many of the aspects of the new model now proposed for wider
application (map IBRD 17286R); (b) the area of Caieiras (five semi-rural
municipalities with 161,000 people); and (c) the area of Maua (three
heterogeneous municipalities with a population of 294,000). The choice of
the latter two areas was dictated by the fact that the new health model can
be introduced almost immediately using existing hospitals (Maps IBRD 17285R
and 17284R). Eight selected extension points are located in the periphery
of the Municipality of Sao Paulo, and the ninth in the central zone (Map



- 17 -
IBRD 17283R). Squatter settlements and high density low-standard dwellings
predominate in these areas together with extremely poor health conditions
and deficient health facilities. These extension points are located in the
districts of Tucuruvi, Vila Maria (north of MSP), Santo Amaro, Jabaquara
(south), Butantan (west), Penha de Franca and Sao Miguel Paulista (east),
Vila Prudente (southwest), and Lapa (center). Detailed data on the five
main target areas and the nine extension points are in Annex 2, Table 1.
III. THE PROJECT
3.01      The two main subjects of this project are:  (a) the development
of a new model of Basic Health Care Services for GSP, and (b) the
development of National Health Policy Studies at the Federal level.
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
A. Objectives
3.02      The objectives of the new model of basic health care services
are:
(a) to improve health status in five main target areas, and nine
health districts of Greater Sao Paulo (GSP) (see specific
health indicators in para. 6.03);
(b) to improve the cost-effectiveness of health services
delivery generally within GSP; and
(c) to assist the Federative Republic of Brazil to develop and
implement appropriate policies on national urban health
sector issues.
B. Components
3.03      The following components are proposed to achieve above
objectives:
Part A: Institutional Development. Aims at strengthening management and
organization of project implementation by:
(a) establishing and operating a project management unit (PMU)
with a project manager and about 20 staff (para. 5.03);
(b) providing 140 man-months of management consultants and 20
man-months of special advisors on health services
organization, delivery and evaluation;
(c) developing a project monitoring and evaluation system;
(d) developing a set of project-related research studies (Annex
3, table 4); and
(e) preparing the follow-up project activities.



- 18 -
Part B: Manpower Development. Aims at providing the organization and
training of the project manpower by:
(a)  establishing a Human Resources Center within SES;
(b) developing a health services staff training program as
follows: (i) about 67 local courses for about 1200
participants; (ii) about 428 in-house courses for about 6000
participants; (iii) about 398 continuing education 2-day
seminars and workshops for about 5000 participants; (iv)
about 395 local scholarships for health visitors, sanitation
agents and sanitation inspectors; (v) about 1380 local
scholarships for hospital attendants and auxiliaries; (vi)
about 425 local scholarships for area and module workshops of
technical and professional staff; and (vii) about 11 overseas
scholarships for senior professional staff (Annex 5, table
3); and
(c) providing, field and lab equipment for a program of
teaching-service experiences of medical students (para.
3.11).
Part C: Health Facilities Network Development. Aims at improving access to
basic health services by:
(a) constructing, furnishing and equipping: (i) about 99 basic
health units (UBS) of which, about 61 will be located in the
five main target areas and about 38 in nine health districts
of MSP ("extension points"); (ii) 5 local hospitals (about
1,100 beds in total) located in the five main target areas
(Annex 3, Tables 2 and 3);-
(b) renovating and equipping about 28 UBS, all located in the
five main target areas; upgrading and equipping (142 beds)
the Juqueri hospital; expanding and equipping (115 beds) the
Cotia hospital; and completing the Itaquera hospital (250
beds);
(c) including the Nardini hospital into the health network (this
is a completed 226-bed private fazility in Maua, not yet in
operation);
(d) providing about 72 ambulances and 180 vehicles for 12 health
modules in the five main target areas and other facilities in
the health areas of the project, as well as the project
management unit and the teaching-service program (part B-(c)
above).
C. Description
3.04       The new model of Basic Health Servicess as defined in para 2.48
will be fully implemented in the five main target areas and partially
(ambulatory and referral services) in the nine "extension points" of the
project. Needs and likely demands were assessed, and coefficients for
expected visits and hospitalizations per capita were estimated (Annex 3,
tables 1 and 2). Model flexibility will be stressed, as users' behavior



- 19 -
and socioeconomic conditions may progressively change during project
implementation. The new model will consist of:
(a) Health Modules: Geographic areas each with 60,000 to 250,000
people who will be covered with ambulatory health services
by 2 to 10 basic health units (UBS) and with inpatient
services by one local 220-bed hospital. A referral system
will integrate the UBS to module and area (specialized)
hospitals. Staff will rotate between ambulatory and
inpatient services;
(b) Health Areas: Geographic areas each comprising 1 to 6 health
modules or 90,000 to 470,000 people.  Some medical specialty
services will be available in one of the Area hospitals.
Logistical functions such as material supplies and drugs,
laundry and ambulance services will be managed at this
level. Each of the five main target areas constitutes a
Health Area;
(c) Health Regions: Geographic areas of GSP each with an average
population of 1.4 million, containing a variable number of
health areas and with a range of services from primary
up to tertiary health care. These regions may cut across
municipal lines of Sao Paulo city in order to balance
population and service distribution. The project will not
include health regions for management purposes, but it will
coordinate referral of patients for tertiary care services.
Emphasis will be on services for health needs which are widespread and can
be cared for at relatively low cost and with safe, effective and
standardized methods. Such services are likely to cover about 90% of the
health needs of the population in a health module.   While many of these
services can be administered by allied health professionals, this
distinction is less important in Sao Paulo than in a typical rural area.
In the context of Sao Paulo, basic health care includes primary health care
plus a substantial part of secondary care, as many basic services (such as
ambulatory surgery) can be performed by local hospitals at an affordable
cost and high quality care.
3.05       The services to be provided are summarized below:
Medical Surveillance, Diagnosis and Treatment: Monitoring of
pregnant women and children nutrition status, childbirth, vaccinations,
screening for chronic diseases (such as tuberculosis, hypertension and
cancer of cervix), treatment of injuries, diagnosis and treatment of common
diseases (such as diarrhea, respiratory and other infections, dental
caries), simple surgery and rehabilitation of convalescent patients. These
services will be rendered to some extent through home visits (for example,
screening) but mainly through UBSs and local hospitals. School children
will be cared for by the school health services mainly. The complexity of
medical and surgical care and the sophistication of medical technology
will be limited, avoiding highly specialized manpower and expensive
technology applicable only to rare problems. Hospitals will have the
following functions: pediatric, gyneco-obstetrics, internal medicine,
psychiatry and surgery. Surgical procedures up to about the level of
complexity of a cholecystectomy (removal of gall bladder) will be included;



- 20 -
more complex surgeries will be referred to a tertiary care facility.
Biochemical tests, X-ray and electrocardiograms in the case of heart
disease, will be performed within the health module; more complex diagnoses
will be done at the tertiary care facilities outside the health module.
Nutrition and Family Planning: As part of the MOH national
program of Integral Care for Women and Children (para. 2.10), the model
will include food supplementation for children, pregnant and lactacting
women, breastfeeding stimulation, early detection and control of breast and
cervical cancer, early detection and treatment of sexually transmitted
diseases, and when requested, family planning.
Promotion and Health Education: Demand creation and education
will be stimulated through advertisement of services, home visits, simple
messages of self-care, personal hygiene, family spacing, and the like.
Environmental Sanitation: The model includes personal health
services mainly but it will include actions in environmental sanitation
such as sanitary household inspections, control of rodents and insects,
food hygiene control, and community participation in trash collection and
appropriate disposal.
Part A: Institutional Development
3.06      To overcome rigidities of the present system and to measure the
effectiveness of innovations, the organization and management of health
services in the five main target areas and the nine health districts will
have the following features:
(a) the health services management, whether by SHS or SES, will
be organized hierarchically, from the health modules, health
areas and health regions, to the 'SES and SHS headquarters;
(b) devolution of managerial and budgetary authority to the
health module. These activities will be complemented by
strengthening of SES and SHS planning capabilities and
accountability of managers at each level of performance based
on specific health improvement objectives;
(c) procedures for referral and counter-referral between levels
in the system (including the tertiary level) will be
established.
(d) outreach services, such as home visiting for health promotion
and education, screening and simple preventive, curative,
nutrition and family planning services, where these are more
cost-effective than in-center care or necessary to reach
those who will not come to the health unit. Home visits will
be made by specially trained home visitors, nurses and,
ocassionally, doctors;
(e) monitoring and evaluation of the main processes of the new
model of health services and its impact on health status and
costs, together with comparisons of alternative approaches;



- 21 -
(f) introduction of simple cost accounting at each level of the
system, to determine the unit costs of each major service or
procedure, and development of improved systems of
record-keeping. During negotiations agreement was reached
that these systems will be in place by June 30, 1985;
(g) encouragement of community participation, through Community
Health Councils monitoring the performance of each health
unit, and representation on committees exercising
surveillance at higher levels. More extensive community
participation in decision-making will be tested at a pilot
scale;
(h) development of a program of project-related research studies
in GSP examining, inter alia, health needs and community
attitudes to health and health providers, leading to further
improvements in techniques and programs of health care (Annex
3, Table 4).
3.07      The Sao Paulo Basic Health Care model will also implement the
following CONASP policy recommendations:
(a) the establishment of the basic health unit as the normal
point of entry to the health system (rather than patients
showing up at a local or even a referral hospital);
(b) reimbursement by INAMPS to SES and SHS for health services
delivered, based on the cost of actual number of visits in
the case of the basic health units and of actual procedures
performed in the case of local hospitals; and
(c) the phasing out of contractural agreements between INAMPS and
private physicians and group practices in the project areas
as when the project health system is able to meet the needs
of the population (these arrangements are relatively few at
present, as most of the project area residents now seek care
in other parts of GSP).
During negotiations, assurances have been obtained that, as each Health
Module (para. 3.04) is established, the above policies will be introduced.
About twenty man/months of special advisers on health services
organization, delivery, and evaluation will assist the PMU in establishing
innovations in the health system; and about 140 man/months of local
management consultants will help the PMU in developing detailed procedures
on hospital and UBS management, monitoring and evaluation systems.
Part B: Manpower Development
3.08      This component involves two main elements: (a) establishing the
Human Resources Center (HRC) of SES; and (b) staffing and training the
personnel for the project.
3.09      Presently, SES manpower management is handled ad-hoc by its
coordinating divisions and by two advisers to the State Secretary. The
project proposes to establish the HRC to ensure SES managerial capacity to
support project manpower requirements. Policies, staffing, training



- 22 -
selection and development of human resources, personnel legislation and
personnel roster are functions assigned to HRC by decree No. 13.350 of
1979. The PMU will include a senior manpower manager in charge of
implementing, with HRC and training institutions, the staffing and training
plans.
3.10      Staffing patterns for UBS and hospitals were defined according to
the functional programming of Health Services f-or a health module, CONASP
criteria, and the Personnel Estimates Study carried out by SHS. The
project will:
(a) orient and retrain existing staff in the operation of
the new model of health services;
(b) provide pre-service training of newly recruited staff, mainly at
the sub-professional levels; and
(c) train selected senior staff as managers.
The proposed training program is summarized in Annex 5, Table 3. About 67
courses and other training programs are envisaged, ranging from one-day
seminars to 13-week courses. There will be about 1,100 courses over four
years, with 11,000 participants.
3.11      The project also provides for about eleven senior professionals
to undertake studies of three to 12 months duration in Brazil or overseas,
as required. These staff will specialize in health administration,
planning, evaluation, manpower development, and metropolitan health care
delivery systems. Courses will be offered by existing training institutions
(including University of Sao Paulo, the Getulic, Vargas Foundation, the
Foundation for Public Administration DevelopmerLt, the Training Center of
SHS and others) and by the project organization itself, by establishing
training-service programs in a few hospitals and health centers. The latter
type of training will include residency programs for medical undergraduates
and graduates, professional seminars, training of trainers and on-the-job
training of auxiliary level staff. The existing residency program with the
Universities of Sao Paulo and Santa Casa in the Cotia Health Area will be
continued and a similar program started in Freguesia do 0, in cooperation
with the University of Santa Casa. The designated training institutions
will have adequate facilities and training capacity to meet the needs of
the Project, but they will be complemented with training equipment and
transport.
Part C: Health Facilities Network Development
3.12      Units with the functions of primary health care (health posts and
centers) and the new approach in service contents, will be named Basic
Health Units (Unidade Basica de Saude) UBS. The existing and new health
facilities in the five main target areas and the extension points are shown
in Annex 3, Table 3. In the main target areas, there now exist about 55
health posts or centers, most of them small and obsolete, of which a few
are rented - usually in cramped unsuitable quarters. Of these facilities,
about 28 will be remodeled, and about 61 new UBSs will be constructed in
the five main target areas. About 38 UBSs will be constructed in nine
health districts (extension points) of the project. Locations were
determined following a mapping exercise, to give access to virtually the



- 23 -
entire population within 20 to 30 minutes walking distance. UBS will
provide all the services listed in para. 3.05 and Annex 3, Table 1 in a 780
m2 facility. All new and remodeled facilities will be equipped as defined
in the detailed functional analysis and technologies study carried out by
the PMU.
3.13      The main target areas now have 11 private hospitals, with a total
of 1,367 beds, not counting specialized hospitals for chronic diseases,
such as TB, or for high-risk deliveries (Annex 3, table 3). Under the
project, about 1,831 new beds will be provided, as follows:
(a) acquisition of the Nardini Hospital in Maua, a 226-bed facility
completed in 1980 by a private group and never opened because of
financial difficulties. This will require only minor
modifications to suit it to the project health services. Both
acquisition and modifications will be completed by March 31,
1985, as agreed during negotiations. Purchase of this hospital
by the Sao Paulo State will be included as part of local
counterpart funds for the project;
(b) during negotiations, agreement was reached to include the
Itaquera hospital for project financing and have it completed by
March 31, 1985. This 250-bed hospital will undergo minor
modifications in order to meet the scheduled hospital services of
the module;
(c) conversion of about 140 psychiatric beds at the state-owned
Juqueri psychiatric hospital to general hospital beds. This
requires renovating 1,393 m2 and extending 2,962 m2, in addition
to new equipment;
(d) the addition of about 115 beds (4153 m2) to the private,
non-profit Cotia Hospital (para. 2.47), together with upgrading
of the technical departments (1,234 m2) and additional equipment
to accommodate the extra patient load; and
(e) construction of five new local hospitals, all in MSP, and each
of about 220 beds.
All the local hospitals will be similar in services - internal medicine,
psychiatry, general surgery, obstetrics-gynecology, and pediatrics (para.
3.05 and Annex 3, Table 1). Each hospital will have an emergency care unit
but no outpatient department - as most such services will, in the future,
be provided at the UBSs and some more specialized functions carried out by
one of the hospitals of the respective health area. However, there will be
some differentiation of services between health area hospitals. The total
constructed area of the five 220-bed hospitals will not exceed 11,660 m2
(or 53 m2 per bed), in accordance with the proposed space program as
confirmed in the letter dated May 15, 1984 sent by the Bank to the
Borrower. Equipment was defined after expert analysis of technologies
required for basic health care services.
3.14      The target ratio of beds/1000 1980 population is 1.4, in slowly
growing areas, ranging up to 2.7 in the most rapidly growing areas (para.
2.29). Some of the facilities (for example, Cotia) will also attract
patients from adjacent poorly-served municipalities. These ratios compare



- 24 -
with the recent CONASP recommendation for 1.8 beds/1000 population for
basic hospital care nationwide.
D. Implementation Schedule
3.15      The detailed implementation schedule for both institutional and
physical components of the model is shown in Annex 5, Table 1. Functional
and physical planning of health facilities and site selection have been
completed for the hospitals and virtually for all UBSs. Purchase or
expropriation is underway. Site acquisition will be completed by December,
1985. During negotations, agreement was reached that the Bank shall have
approved the preliminary drawings for each of the five new hospitals,
before the borrower starts the preparation of final drawings for such
hospitals. The project will cover a period of four years and main
activities in the first six months will be the completion of detailed
managerial plans and detailed drawings of health facilities.
Project-related research studies as well as training programs will start in
the second semester of 1984. The new model of health services will be
established with the first group of Health Modules based on existing
hospitals, in about one year after starting project operations. Each
hospital will require about two years for construction.
NATIONAL HEALTH POLICY STUDIES
A. Objectives
3.16      This sub-project aims at:
(a) strengthening the policy formulation process in the Health
Sector; and
(b) improving the implementation of health policy measures.
B. Description
3.17      The National Health Policy Studies ailm at analyzing current
priority health issues with a view to strengthening the policy formulation
process and establishing medium-term objectives in the health sector. Main
topics to be analyzed were identified at a meeting of key Brazilian health
sector research institutions and policy analysis agencies, in April 1983.
These are: (i) alternative models for expansion of basic health service
coverage; (ii) decentralization of health service delivery and its
technical, political and institutional implications; (iii) economic and
financial aspects of the health system; (iv) technological options and
their impact on cost-effectiveness to the health system; and (v) other
subjects agreed from time to time, pursuant to periodic implementation
reviews, starting in October 31, 1984, and continuing on an annual basis.
Before putting into effect any policy based on or derived from these
studies, the Bank should have an opportunity to express its views on such
policy.



- 25 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimate
4.01       Cost estimates for both sub-projects are described below. The
estimated cost of the Sao Paulo Basic Health Care Sub-project is US$121.6
million, which includes about US$11.0 million in direct taxes. The foreign
exchange cost is about US$24.0 million (20.0% of the total). Details are
given in Annex 4, Tables 1-4 and are summarized in Table 4.1. Construction
costs are based on functional designs and current construction costs per m2
for similar types of buildings in Sao Paulo. Equipment costs were estimated
according to the study on hospital and UBS functional planning carried out
by PMU staff, assisted by local specialists in ambulatory and hospital
care. Physical contingencies amount to US$10.6 million (15% of civil works
costs and 5% of equipment and vehicles). Price contingencies were based on
the following expected rates of increase for international prices: 1984,
3.5%; 1985, 8.0%; 1986 and thereafter 9.0%. The same levels were used for
local and foreign costs as it was assumed that Brazil will continue to
devalue the Cruzeiro in relation to the difference between domestic and
international inflation.
BRAZIL
Table 4.1: SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Project Cost Summary
(US '000)                 Z Total
-   Z Foreign BJSr
Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange  Costs
A. INSTITUTIONMA DEYElNPWT          4,778.8  452.2  5,231.0     8.6    5.1
B. MANPUER DEYELOPMENT              2,880.0  920.0  3.800.0    24.2    3.7
C, HEALTH FACILITIES NETII1RK DEYELOPHENT  74,494.5 19.056.1 93,550.5  20.4   91.2
Total                                82,153.3 20.428.3 102,581.5  19.9  100.0
Phisical Contingencies             8,920.5 1,650.2 10,570.6   15.6   10.3
Price Contingencies                6,532,4 1,779.0  8,311.4   21.4    8.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                  97,606,2 23,857.4 121,463.6  19.6  118.4
Front End Fee                           -   138.3   138.3    100.0    0.1
Total FINANCING REQUIRED            97.606.2 23,995.7 121.601.8  19.7  118.5
4.02       The estimated cost of the National Health Policy Studies is US$2
million, net of taxes, and including the front-end fee (see Table 4.2).
Table 4.2: NATIONAL HEALTH POLICY STUDIES
Project Cost Summary
(US$ '000)
% Foreign % Total
Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange  Base Cost
D. Health Policy Dev.  1,895         100   1,995        5.0        1.9
Front-End Fee                                5
Total Financing Required                2,000.0



- 26 -
4.03      Recurrent Costs.  The operating costs for the existing and new
health facilities of the Sao Paulo Basic Health Care Sub-project will be
about US$9.5 million at the first year end. At the end of the fourth
project year, recurrent costs will be about US$119 million at 1984 constant
values. By full development, new hospitals will account for 20% of
recurrent costs, health units for 77% and central administration and
services for 3%. Incremental salaries in the first year will amount to
about US$5.3 million and US$62.4 million in the fourth year of the project,
or about 52% of the annual operating costs. Present recurrent health
expenditures in GSP are about US$938 million; the value of incremental
project expenditures at full service operations would be US$119 million or
12.6% increase of present expenditures, which could be absorbed by the
system. Further details are given in Annex 4, Table 3.
4.04      The National Health Policy Studies wqill not generate recurrent
costs during project implementation.
B. Financing Plan
4.04      Two Bank loans for the Second Health Project are described
below.  The first Bank loan of US$55.5 million to the Sao Paulo State will
finance 50% of the net-of-taxes total cost of the Basic Health Care
Project, including the capitalized front-end fee of 0.25% (about US$0.1
million), all the foreign costs, and about 32% of the local investment
costs. Financing of local costs is justified on project grounds, because of
the key importance of the project in advancing the goals of Brazil in the
development of the health sector and also the need to make a reasonably
significant Bank contribution to the cost of the project, in view of the
low foreign exchange requirement.
4.05      Participation of the State and MSP in financing the Sao Paulo
sub-project will be as follows: The State will contribute US$39.6
million(30.0%) and MSP US$26.5 million (20%). The State will meet all
investment costs in the three target areas outside MSP (Cotia, Caieiras,
and Maua), and will share the costs equally with MSP in the two target
areas of Itaquera/Guaianazes and Freguesia do 0, and in the nine health
districts containing the 38 UBSs as extension points. The expected schedule
of disbursements is shown in Annex 4, Table 6.
4.06      Both the State and Municipality signed an agreement with INAMPS
and MOH to co-finance recurrent costs. INAMPS will reimburse 50% of
hospital service expenditures and an amount equivalent to the cost of the
total volume of ambulatory service production. MOH will participate with a
fixed amount defined each year.
4.07      During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Sao Paulo
Government will provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, all
the funds needed to carry out the Basic Health Care Sub-project and operate
all public sector facilities in the five main target areas and in the
project extension points, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank. It
was also agreed that the State will consult with the Bank on the financial
and manpower implications of major new investments in the health sector in
GSP, outside the scope of the project.
4.08      The second Bank loan of US$2.0 million will finance 100% of the
National Health Policy Studies total costs, net of taxes. This loan to the



- 27 -
Federative Republic of Brazil is made under separate terms and conditions
from the one to the Sao Paulo State.
C. Procurement
4.09      Procurement arrangements for both sub-projects are summarized in
the table below.
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT SUMMARY (in US$ million)
PROCUREMENT METHOD
PROJECT ELEMENT                 ICB    LCB    OTHER    N.A.    COST
- Sao Paulo Basic Health Care
Civil works                          65.9    2.0a/   4.0       71.9
(26.8)  (0.0)   (0.0)   (26.8)
Furniture, equipment and   7.0    21.8    0.6b/                29.4
vehicles                  (6.3)  ( 8.8)  (0.2)              (15.3)
Professional fees                            7.2                7.2
(7.2)             (7.2)
Maintenance                                           3.0       3.0
(3.0)    (3.0)
Technical Assistance and                              2.9       2.9
Project Related Studies                              (2.9)    (2.9)
Training                                              4.2       4.2
(1.9)    (1.9)
Management                                            2.9       2.9
(1.2)    (1.2)
SUBTOTAL                    7.0    87.7    9.8    17.0        121.5
(6.3)  (35.6)  (7.4)  ( 6.0)    (55.3)
-  National Health Policy                                2.0        2.0
Studies                                              (2.0)      (2.0)
Subtotal
GRAND TOTAL                 7.0    87.7    9.8    19.0        123.5
(6.3)  (35.6)  (7.4)   (8.0)    (57.3)
a/ Negotiated purchase of Nardini Hospital.
!/ Local prudent shopping.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank.



- 28 -
4.10      Civil Works for the Sao Paulo Sub-project:  about 15 major civil
works contracts for new health facilities and 20 minor contracts for
facilities upgrading, amounting to about US$65.9 million will be awarded
after LCB. Given the relative small size of contracts (average of US$4.5
million), the strength of the domestic construction industry and the scope
and nature of the work, there is little likelihood of interest from foreign
contractors, although they will not be excluded. Standard bidding documents
acceptable to the Bank will be developed for (each type of construction.
After their first use, Bank's prior review of bidding documents will be
retained only for hospital construction. Prior review of proposed contract
awards will be required on all contracts above US$1 million, accounting for
at least 90% of all contract values. Other contracts will be subject to
post-award reviews.
4.11      Furniture, Equipment and Vehicles for the Sao Paulo Sub-project.
Procurement of more complex items such as X-rays and surgical equipment
estimated to cost about US$7.0 million will be subject to international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
Brazilian suppliers whose bids contain components manufactured in Brazil
equal to at least 50% of the value of the bid, will be given a margin of
preference of 15% or the applicable import duties, whichever is lower.
Other equipment, plus all furniture and vehicles, will be subject to LCB
procedures, which will have been reviewed and found acceptable to the
Bank. Items that cannot be grouped into economical packages which in the
aggregate are less than US$600,000 will be procured through prudent
shopping after obtaining at least three price quotations. Standard bidding
documents acceptable to the Bank will be developed for ICB and LCB. Prior
review of proposed contract awards, whether ICB or LCB, will be required on
all contracts above US$1.0 million. Other contracts will be subject to
post-award review.
4.12      During negotiations, agreement was reached to include US$4
million of the construction and equipment costs of the Itaquera Hospital as
part of the investment project costs, but no disbursement will be made
against it. It was also agreed that the Sao Paulo Government will forward
to the Bank a report on the procedures used for procurement and quality of
construction and equipment of this hospital.
4.13      Consultants and Advisors. In the case of the Sao Paulo Basic
Health Care Sub-project, most consultants will be contracted from within
Brazil. Selection, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment will be in accordance to Bank policies and procedures. In the
case of the National Policy Studies, the Bank will review the selection,
terms of reference and conditions of employment of consultants and agencies
to carry out the studies.



- 29 -
D. Disbursements
4.14      Disbursements for the two sub-projects are described below.  The
proceeds of the loan for the Sao Paulo Basic Health Care Sub-project will
be disbursed against all eligible project expenditures except for the
Itaquera hospital (see para. 4.10) and the purchase of the Nardini
hospital. The percentages to be disbursed will be as follows: (a) civil
works: 41%; (b) furniture, equipment and vehicles: 100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for goods procured
under ICB, and 41% of local expenditures for other items procured locally;
(c) consultants, technical assistance and project-related studies: 100%;
(d) training and fellowships: 100% of foreign expenditures and 41% of local
expenditures; and (e) project management: 41% (Annex 4, Table 5). In order
to reduce the interval during which the Borrower will finance with its own
resources the Bank's share of the projects costs, the Sao Paulo Government
has requested the Bank to make an advance deposit of US$5.0 million from
the loan account into a Special Account to be opened in the Central Bank.
In addition, the Sao Paulo Government will make an initial deposit in
Cruzeiros of 2.0 billion (equivalent to approximately three months of
project expenditures plus 20%) into a project account in the Bank of Sao
Paulo State (BANESPA), the administrator of a special Fund (FUNDES) within
which the project account will be opened. This sub-project account will be
replenished by disbursements from the Special Account and by monthly
counterpart allocations. A special condition of effectiveness for the loan
will be that satisfactory by-laws governing the operation of the project
account have been issued and the account's administrator appointed. The
Borrower will be entitled to make withdrawals in cruzeiros from the Special
Account upon submission of withdrawal applications by FUNDES to the Central
Bank. Conversion from U.S. dollars to cruzeiros will be made at the
exchange rate that prevailed on the date expenditures on the project were
made. The Central Bank will forward the withdrawal applications supported
by statement of expenditures to the Bank, which will then replenish the
Special Account. Supporting documentation for salaries and operational
expenses will not be submitted to the Bank, but will be retained by the
agency responsible for their certification and will be made available for
inspection by the Bank during project supervision missions. Standard
documentation covering contracted civil works, vehicles; equipment and
technical assistance will be made available for Bank inspection.
Retroactive financing up to a limit of US$3.5 million of expenditures made
after January 1983 on technical assistance, Droject management and civil
works will be accepted. Disbursements will be conditional upon receipt by
the Bank of satisfactory evidence that (a) an agreement, satisfactory to
the Bank, has been entered into by the Borrower and the owners of the Cotia
hospital defining the terms and conditions of the participation to and
operation of the hospital under the project for project investments
relating to that hospital; and (b) each participating municipality has
adhered to the CRIS agreement under terms aad conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, for project investments in such participating municipality. The
Sao Paulo loan is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1989.
(There are no disbursement profiles available for health project in
general. There is one ongoing health project in Brazil, with a disbursement
period of 5-1/2 years, which is disbursing ahead of schedule).
4.15      The proceeds of the loan for the NAtional Health Policy Studies
will be disbursed at the rate of 100% (Annex 4, Table 7). The Bank will
make an initial deposit of US$300,000 from the loan account into a Special



- 30 -
Account to be opened in the Central Bank for the purpose of this
component. The Borrower will be entitled to make withdrawals in cruzeiros,
from the Special Account upon submission of withdrawal applications by MOH
to the Central Bank. Conversion from US dollars to cruzeiros will be made
at the exchange rate in effect at the time each payment was made. The
Central Bank will forward the withdrawal applications supported by
statement of expenditures to the Bank, which will then replenish the
Special Account with amounts equal to payments made up to the equivalent of
the initial deposit. Supporting documentation will be submitted to the
Bank. The Federal loan is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1988.
E. Accounts and Audits
4.16      Participating agencies in both sub-projects will maintain
separate accounts of project expenditures, which will be audited annually
by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. Copies of the
participating agencies audited statements, will be provided to the Bank
within six months of the end of the calendar year. These reports will
include an opinion (and comments as necessary) on the methods employed in
compiling the statement of expenditures, their accuracy, the relevance of
supporting documents, eligibility for financing in terms of the project's
legal agreements and the standard of record-keeping and internal controls
related to the foregoing. The Special Accounts and the FUNDES Sub-project
account will be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank.
4.17      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the borrower
will:
(a)  cause the Sao Paulo PMU to maintain adequate, separate accounts
with respect to the parts A, B, and C of the Basic Health Care
Sub-project and of the annual, recurrent costs of operating the
public sector health system in the project areas and extension
points;
(b)  cause MOH to maintain adequate separate accounts in respect of
the National Health Policy Studies Sub-project;
(c)  cause the Sao Paulo PMU to introduce, not later than June 30,
1985, a simple system of cost accounting satisfactory to the Bank
for the public sector health system in the project areas;
(d)  cause the accounts referred to in (a) and (b), as well as the
Special Accounts and the FUNDES Project Account, to be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and
(e)  furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank, not later than six
months from the end of each fiscal year, copies of the auditors'
report on such accounts.



- 31 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
A. Organization
5.01      The Ministries of Social Security and Health, the President of
INAMPS and the Governor of Sao Paulo signed an agreement in October, 1983,
establishing the mechanisms for implementing the CONASP "Program of Compre-
hensive Health Care" (PAIS) in the State of Sao Paulo. This agreement cre-
ated an Interinstitutional Commission of Health (CIS) responsible for
health policy implementation and management of the public health sector in
Sao Paulo State. Its members are the State Secretary of Health (President),
the State Superintendent of INAMPS and the Federal Representative of MOH in
Sao Paulo. CIS, in turn, has created the Regional Interinstitutional Health
Commission (CRIS) for the Health Regions of GSP, and the Municipal
Interinstitutional Health Commission (CIMS) for individual municipalities.
The role of CRIS and CIMS is to coordinate the PAIS execution in the Health
Regions of GSP and the remaining municipalities of the State. CIS will be
also the governing board for the Metropolitan Health Program (MHP) carried
out by SES. The Sao Paulo Health project is the central component of MHP
and its manager is appointed by CIS (see 5.04 below).
B. Management
5.02      Overall responsibility for the Sao Paulo Basic Health Care
Sub-project will rest with CIS. It will:
(a) provide health policy guidelines for the Metropolitan Health
Program (MHP);
(b) select the Project General Manager who will be appointed by
the State's Governor;
(c) approve plans and budgets for investments and operations;
(d) sign agreements and "convenios" with health sector and other
agencies.
5.03      Major responsibility for implementing the Sao Paulo Basic Health
Care Sub-project will rest with a Project Management Unit (PMU), which has
been established within the cabinet office of SES. The PMU will be
responsible for detailed project planning and programming, procurement,
construction supervision and project finances (budgets, expenditure
control, accounts and improvement of accounting systems). The PMU will have
strong liaison functions with the Human Resources Center (para. 3.09) for
manpower planning, staffing and training and with the SES and SHS Health
Information Units for monitoring and evaluation. Finally, the PMU will
liaise with a small unit to be established within the cabinet office of
SHS, to coordinate the project with other plans and activities of SHS. The
PMU will review the operation of health services in the project areas and
extension points to ensure that the new model of health services is
implemented as planned, including appropriate adjustments in the light of
experience, and that agreed targets for the delivery of services and for
improvements in efficiency are met. The PMU was officially established in
December 1983 by the State Governor's decree No. 21.862. A special



- 32 -
condition of effectiveness for the loan will be that the regulations
governing the activities of the Project Management Unit be in force.
5.04      The Project General Manager will be the head of the PMU with
day-to-day responsibility for all aspects of project implementation and an
oversight function for the delivery of health services in the project areas
and the project extension points. He will be supported by section heads for
Planning, Construction, Finance and Administration. The Bank will be given
an opportunity to comment on the qualifications and experience of
candidates for the PMU project manager. The PMU will have about 20
professional staff, as well as consultants and advisers (para. 5.11). PMU
manager functions include:
(a) managing the project;
(b)  proposing agreements and "convenios";
(c) preparing project plans and reports and submit them to the
Interinstitutional Commission;
(d)  submitting the names of the regional and module managers for
approval to the interinstitutional Commission;
(e) supervising and implementing the project in the target areas, and
extension points;
(f) managing the implementation of the investment and the expansion
of health services in the project areas.
5.05      During the first phase of project implementation the largest
share of service delivery will take place in the Sao Paulo municipality.
In the two health areas within MSP (Freguesia do 0 and Itaquera-Guaianazes)
and in the nine districts where the extension points are located, SHS will
assume operational control of all public sector health services. New
facilities in these areas will be owned by SHS; over time, SES facilities
currently located in MSP will also be owned by SHS and its staff
transferred. In the Caieiras and Maua Areas, SES will continue to be
responsible for the operation of public health services but plans will be
developed for rapid municipalization of service delivery. In the Cotia
Area, the present cooperative arrangements between the State, Municipality
and private charitable bodies will continue.
5.06      The Health Module (para. 3.04) will be the basic organizational
unit of the new health service for both SES arid SHS. A Module will
normally include one local hospital and its satellite Basic Health Units,
each of which will be a cost center.  The Module Manager will have
authority in personnel and budgetary matters, including recruitment and
training of staff, and division of budgets between ambulatory and
in-patient services and among facilities. The Module Manager will be
accountable to the Project Manager for the use of this authority and for
performance based on specific health improvement objectives. The Module
Manager will be assisted by Directors of Ambulatory Services, In-Patient
Services and Administrative Services. Staff will be expected to rotate
between ambulatory and in-patient services, where appropriate, to further
the integration of basic health care. Each Basic Health Unit Chief will
respond to the Director of Ambulatory Services; and will be advised by a



- 33 -
Community Health Council of elected community representatives. SHS will
appoint the 38 UBS chiefs for the project extension points; these chiefs
will be responsible for implementing the ambulatory care services according
to the project model, and their performance will be monitored by PMU.
5.07      The Health Area office - consisting of one to six health modules
- will concern itself mainly with common services such as laboratories,
ambulances, drug supply and the like. It will also have a small monitoring
and planning capability, to analyze any differences of project impact among
Modules. The Area Manager will be advised by a council consisting of the
Module Managers and representatives of the municipalities concerned,
INAMPS, the private sector and the community.
5.08      The Health Region will coordinate a number of health areas.  In
the course of expansion of the project, the metropolitan area will be
organized in health regions. Given the limited geographic scope of the
project at present, the health region concept has not been implemented yet.
5.09      Assurances.  During negotiations, the following agreements have
been reached:
(a) the Borrower will consult with the Bank on any proposed major
changes in the PMU or the five Health Area organizations
managingthe project;
(b) the Borrower will ensure that the PMU and the SES and SHS
organizations in the project areas are fully staffed at all times
with suitably qualified and experienced personnel;
(c) physicians and other staff employed by SES or SHS in the project
areas will normally be engaged on a full-time basis (eight hours
per day) and will be paid adequate salaries and allowances
adjusted periodically in line with the January 1984 Law No. 341
on health personnel classification.
C. Technical Assistance
5.10      Since Sao Paulo SES has never previously implemented a large
multifaceted project, it has limited planning and construction experience
and very few non-medical professional staff. Therefore, there will be a
need for consultants to assist the early implementation of the project.
Management consultants (about 140 man-months) will help establish the
organization and its personnel, budgetary and management information
systems. Architectural consultants will complete final drawings of all
project buildings and supervise construction. Engagement of consultants
in management and in architecture will be under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank.
5.11      The project also provides for one long-term and two short-term
internationally-recruited advisers (20 man-months in all) to assist Sao
Paulo project management in the areas of health services organization,
delivery and evaluation respectively. They will be hired not later than
July 1, 1985.



- 34 -
D. Staffing and Training
5.12      The staff requirements of the Sao Paulo Sub-project are
summarized in Annex 5, Table 2. Over the project implementation period,
about 9,000 additional staff will be needed, of whom 1,300 will be
physicians, 650 nurses and 4,800 other skilled workers (nurse auxiliaries,
attendants, health visitors, technicians, bookkeepers, maintenance workers,
secretaries and the like).
5.13      No problems are expected in recruiting staff for the Sao Paulo
Sub-project. There are currently over 25,000 phLysicians in the State of
Sao Paulo and their number is growing by about 2,000 per year, compared to
the project's requirements of 1,340 over four years. There are about 7,000
professional nurses in the state and the state's schools are graduating
1,600 per year,while the project will need to recruit only 640 over four
years. For other skilled workers, supply and demand are now in balance so
it has been assumed that most recruits in these categories will be high
school graduates, to be trained under the projec.t. Initially, recruitment
will be the responsibility of the personnel divisions in SHS and SES, with
HRC gradually taking over the latter role. No problems are expected in
increasing recruitment capacity to meet the project's needs.
E. Maintenance
5.14      Under the Sao Paulo Sub-project, adequate budgetary provision for
maintenance will be made and maintenance staff will be fully trained in
their jobs in the project training program. During negotiations assurances
were obtained that all facilities in the Sao Paulo project areas, including
those to be constructed and equipped under the project, will be maintained
in accordance with generally accepted standards and that adequate financial
provision for such maintenance will be made in the annual recurrent budgets
for such facilities, equal to at least 1.5% of the cost/m2 of civil works
in the case of buildings and 1.3% of the facility equipment cost.
Furthermore, the PMU will prepare a detailed plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, for the organization and staffing of a maintenance system for such
facilities by June 30, 1985.
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.15      Two types of Sao Paulo Sub-project monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) activities will be undertaken under the project. The first will be
the establishment of a management information system to indicate whether
the health system is functioning efficiently and producing the desired
benefits for the target population, allowing corrective action by
management where needed. The second is longer-term in nature and is called
Project-Related Studies (para. 3.06 (h)). Studies of management issues,
efficiency of health services, diagnostic technology and project impact are
included in the provisional list shown in Annex 3, Table 4. Some of the
studies will be directed at improving the data base for project
implementation and others at comparing the results of alternative service
delivery techniques. Studies will be carried out either by the PMU itself
or by local consulting groups. Primary responsibility for monitoring will
be with the manager at each level. PMU will coordinate and consolidate
these monitoring activities. PMU will submit to the Bank quarterly progress
reports on project activities, and a mid-term evaluation report on project
activities as of June 30, 1986 no later than September 30, 1986.



- 35 -
NATIONAL HEALTH POLICY STUDIES
A. Organization and Management
5.16      The federal Ministry of Health (MOH) would be responsible for the
implementation of this sub-project and would establish a special executive
group reporting directly to the Ministry's Secretary General. MOH would
receive technical support from the National Human Resources Center (CNRH),
a division of the Social and Economic Planning Institute (IPEA). In
particular, CNRH would assist MOH in the preparation of yearly study
programs and terms of reference for specific studies, the selection of
consultants and executing institutions for carrying out the studies, the
supervision of the consultants' work and the evaluation of studies
results. The terms and conditions of CNRH assistance to MOH for purposes of
the sub-project would be defined in an agreement to be entered into, no
later than October 31, 1984. The terms and conditions of this agreement
would be satisfactory to the Bank. Coordination of health sector agencies
would be provided by the Interministerial Planning and Coordination
Commission (CIPLAN), which would be responsible for reviewing and approving
the studies program, related budgets, and implementation measures to be
prepared by MOH. CIPLAN would, for sub-project purposes, be enlarged to
include representatives of IPEA/CNRH. Terms of reference for the studies,
their execution arrangements and schedules would be satisfactory to the
Bank. MOH would review with the Bank by October 31 each year, starting
October 31, 1984, the progress of ongoing studies, the study plan for the
subsequent year and the proposed policy actions resulting from the findings
of the studies already completed.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.01      The Second Health Project is expected to have two major types of
impact: on health status and cost-effectiveness of health services delivery
in GSP; and on policy formulation in the country as a whole. In the case
of National Policy Studies, qualitative benefits in the process of policy
formulation and in the definition of mid-term health sector objectives are
expected. In the case of the Sao Paulo Sub-project, health improvement
quantification is given in epidemiological terms (reduction of mortality,
morbidity and the like). The environmental impact of the project is
described below and an analysis made of project risks.
A. Impact on Health Status
6.02      A list of key indicators is shown in Annex 6, Table 1, with
variables related to project implementation, cost-effectiveness and the
project's impact on health status in the Sao Paulo five project areas and
the nine health districts. As project implementation begins, similar
matrices will be developed for each Area and Module to provide target
levels for management performance. For some indicators, special surveys in
the first year of the project will be needed to establish area-specific
baseline rates.
6.03      Infant mortality is expected to decline by 30% over eight years
(including three years of continuous delivery of the new model of health
services) and child mortality by about 20%, as a result of the project
services as a whole, particularly improved access and the use of home



- 36 -
visiting, health and nutrition education, antenatal care, the breastfeeding
campaign and improvements in immunization. In other words, about 750
children's lives would be saved each year in the project areas. Infant
mortality for the most common diseases, diarrheaLl and acute respiratory,
would decline by about 30%, the main factors here being early dignosis and
treatment, health and nutrition surveillance, oral rehydration and the
breastfeeding campaign. An increase of 35% in the proportion of mothers
breastfeeding for six months is expected. This, plus nutrition education,
especially at the weaning stage and improvements in overall health, should
lead to a 20% reduction in the prevalence of child malnutrition. By
doubling the proportion of children vaccinated, the incidence of measles is
expected to decline by half and tuberculosis by a quarter. In the area of
chronic diseases, an objective would be to identify and monitor (on an
ambulatory basis) 60% of all cases of hypertension. Some of the indicators
shown in Annex 6, Table 1 are proxies for groups of diseases and
interventions but they have been chosen to represent the major dimensions
of the health problems of Sao Paulo, to be reasonably independent of each
other and to be relatively easy to measure.
B. Impact on Health Costs
6.04      A principal justification of the Sao Paulo Sub-project is that it
would reduce health-care costs as compared to what they would be without
the project. Part of the reduction would be achieved by the elimination of
waste, fraud and abuse in the current system through the new accounting
monitoring and reimbursement procedures. The major cost reduction would
result, however, from a systematic change designed to expand primary care
and to reduce hospital inpatient care.
6.05      The intent of the project is to improve the coverage of the
health system so that both hospitalizations and ambulatory visits are
expected to increase in the future, but with fewer hospitalizations than
without the project. Hospitalizations for Sao Paulo State in 1980 exceeded
CONASP guidelines by 20%, that is, the guidelines provide for 0.1
hospitalization per person per annum whereas 0.12 actually occurred.
Separate data for Greater Sao Paulo, which constitutes about 50% of the
total population of the state, are not available. Assuming that GSP
region exceeds the CONASP guidelines by the same rate as the state as a
whole, then the population overuses hospitals by 20%. If CONASP service
plan parameters had been achieved in 1980, then there would have been more
ambulatory visits and fewer hospitalizations. Assuming the same service
costs would prevail (ambulatory visit = US$6; hospitalization = US$125), a
savings of US$22 million or 6% of actual expenditures would have resulted.
6.06      Comparing health costs with and without the new system in
metropolitan Sao Paulo, 1984 to 2000, demonstrates the substantial savings
to be realized by the combination of the Sao Paulo project and CONASP
health policies for GSP (Annex 6, Table 3). The savings that could be
achieved, when compared to projected expenditures without the policy
reforms proposed by CONASP, rise from about 10% of aggregate health costs
in 1983 to about 20% of prospective health costs in 1990.
6.07      It would be inappropriate to attribute all the cost savings  to
be derived throughout GSP to the project investments which will largely
finance physical facilities serving only 20% of the metropolitan
population. It may be assumed that 20% of the estimated overall savings



- 37 -
shown in Annex 6, Table 3 over the period 1984 through 2000 are
attributable to the total project investment of US$121.6 million in GSP.
C. Environmental Impact
6.08      As the project will be directed towards improving the health and
well-being of the project area population, it will clearly have a positive
impact on the human environment. In addition, by expanding the network of
sanitary inspectors and through health education, the project will have a
minor impact on the physical environment, though it does not provide the
major investments needed to provide safe and convenient water supply and
excreta and solid waste disposal to the entire population. No negative
environmental impacts are foreseen, either for the project areas or
beyond.
D. Project Risks
6.09      On the basis of many documented cases around the world, there is
little doubt that the expansion and re-orientation of health services in
GSP under the project, if carried out as planned, would lead to
improvements in health status of at least the magnitude estimated. Based
on the experience of Curitiba and Cotia, there is also little doubt that
the proposed changes in referral systems, reimbursement formulas and staff
utilization would lead to cost savings of the order just described. The
remaining risks are in the area of management and future political support
-- whether the project management will have the insight, energy and skill
(as well as the logistical support) to carry through the changes in health
services delivery and financing that will be needed -- along with the
ancillary programs of health promotion and education, improvement in
employment conditions, staff training and motivation -- in the face of
bureaucratic inertia and possible opposition from private sector health
entrepreneurs. These risks tend to decrease with the present strong
political commitment in the state government; careful selection of the key
project managers; the inclusion of management consultants; the
incorporation into project planning and implementation of INAMPS, which has
a strong commitment to reform and a short but impressive record of success
elsewhere in Brazil; the inclusion of private sector elements in the
project design; and the phasing of project implementation in line with
expected management capabilities.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
7.01      At negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) the Bank shall have approved the preliminary drawings for each of
the five new hospitals, before the borrower starts the
preparation of final drawings for each hospital (para. 3.16);
(b) CONASP policy recommendations will be introduced as each Health
Module is established (para. 3.07);
(c) by March 31, 1985, the borrower shall have acquired the Nardini
hospital, completed and equipped the Itaquera hospital including



- 38 -
the necessary modifications to suit it to the Health Module
(para. 3.13);
(d)  the total constructed area of the five 220-bed new hospitals will
not exceed 11,660 m2, or 53m2 per bed (para. 3.13);
(e)  the Borrower will provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, all the funds needed to carry out the project and operate
all public sector facilities in the five main target areas and
the project extension points under arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 4.07);
(f)  the State will consult with the Bank on the financial and
manpower implications of new major iLnvestments in the health
sector in GSP outside the scope of the project (para. 4.07);
(g)  the Borrower will:
(i)   cause the Central Bank to open a Special Account on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Payments out of
the Special Account shall be made exclusively to pay the
cost of goods and services required to carry out the
project and to be financed by the Bank in accordance to the
allocation of loan proceeds (para. 4.13);
(ii)  cause FUNDES to open a Project Account to be administered
by BANESPA on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
This Project Account will be replenished by disbursements
from the Special Account and by monthly counterpart
allocations (para. 4.13);
(iii) cause the Project Management Unit to maintain adequate,
separate accounts in respect of parts A, B, and C of the
project and of the annual, recurrent costs of operating the
public sector health system in the project area
(para. 4.16);
(iv)  introduce, not later than June 30, 1985, a simple system of
cost accounting satisfactory to the Bank for the public
sector health system in the project area (para. 4.16-c);
(v)   cause the accounts referred tci in (i), (ii), and (iii) to
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank (para. 4.16-d); and
(vi)  furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank, not later
than six months from the end of each fiscal year, the
auditor's report on such accounts (para. 4.16-e);
(h) the Borrower will consult with the Bank on any proposed major
changes in the PMU or in the organization of the five target
areas and extension points of the project (para. 5.09);
(i) the Borrower will ensure that the PMU and the SES and SHS
organizations operating health services in the project areas are
fully staffed at all times with suitably qualified and
experienced personnel (para. 5.09). In particular, the Bank will



- 39 -
be given an opportunity to comment on the qualifications and
experience of candidates for the post of Project General Manager
(para. 5.04);
(j) physicians and other staff employed by SES or SHS in the project
areas will normally be engaged on a full-time basis (eight hours
per day) and will be paid adequate salaries and allowances
adjusted periodically in line with the January 1984 Law No. 341
on Health Personnel Classification (para. 5.09).
(k) advisers in health services organization, delivery and evaluation
acceptable to the Bank will be engaged on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank, by July 1, 1985 (para. 5.11);
(1) all facilities in the project areas, including those to be
constructed and equipped under the project, will be maintained in
accordance with generally accepted standards, and that adequate
financial provision for such maintenance will be made in the
annual recurrent budgets for such facilities, equal to at least
1.5% of the cost/m2 of civil works in the case of buildings and
1.3% of facility equipment cost. Furthermore, the PMU will
prepare a detailed plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
organization and staffing of a maintenance system for such
facilities by June 30, 1985 (para. 5.14); and
(m)  PMU will submit quarterly progress reports on project activities
to the Bank. An evaluation report on project activities as of
June 30, 1986 will be submitted to the Bank no later than
September 30, 1986 (para. 5.15).
7.02      Special conditions of effectiveness will be that:
(a) satisfactory by-laws governing the operation of the project
account had been issued and the accounts' administrator appointed
(para. 4.13);
(b) the regulations governing the activities of the PMU be in force
(para. 5.03).
7.03      Special conditions of disbursement will be the receipt by the
Bank of satisfactory evidence that:
(a) an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been entered into by
the Borrower and the owners of the Cotia hospital defining the
terms and conditions of the participation to and operation of the
hospital under the project for project investments relating to
that hospital (para. 4.13);
(b) each participating municipality has adhered to the CRIS agreement
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for project
investments in such participating municipality (para. 4.13).



- 40 -
B. NATIONAL HEALTH POLICY STUDIES
7.04      At negotiations, assurances were reached that:
(a) the Federal Republic of Brazil will designate MOH as executive
agency to carry out the National Health Policy Studies. MOH will
prepare terms of reference for specific studies, and select
consultants and institutions acceptable to the Bank for carrying
out the studies satisfactory to the Bank. MOH will coordinate
with CIPLAN ans IPEA/CNRH the preparation of policy actions
derived from the analytical studies (para. 3.18), and maintain
adequate separate accounts (para. 4.16-b).
(b) before putting into effect any policy based on, or derived from
the studies, the Bank should have an opportunity to express its
views on such policy (para. 3.17).
7.05      With the above conditions and assurances the Second Health
Project will be suitable for two Bank loans: US$55.5 million for the Sao
Paulo Basic Health Care Sub-project, and US$2.0 millions for the National
Health Policy Studies Sub-project, both with repayment over 15 years,
including 3 years of grace. The borrower for the US$55.5 million loan will
be the State of Sao Paulo, and the borrower for the US$2.0 million loan
will be the Federal Republic of Brazil.



- 41 -
ANNEXES



- 42-
ANNEX 1
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Supplementary Data on Brazil
Table 1     Population, Health and Nutrition Indicators
Table 2     Infant Mortality Rate
Table 3     Crude Death Rate
Table 4     Ten Leading Causes of Mortality
Table 5     Morbidity Indicators
Table 6     Nutrition Indicators by Region
Table 7     Percentage of Women Age 15-44 at Risk of Unplanned Pregnancy
and Corresponding Number of Women in Need of Family Planning
Services, Brazil, El Salvador, Guatemala, Panama, and Paraguay
Table 8     Status of Contraceptive Prevalence Information for Latin
America
Table 9     Health Expenditures
Table 10    INAMPS Expenditures
Table 11    Percentage Distribution, Five Major Regions (Federal Revenues,
SINPAS Revenues, Non-medical Expenditures under Social
Security and Medical Expenditures of INAMPS
Table 12    Preventive and Curative Shares o:f Brazilian Health Expenditures
Table 13    Health Manpower
Table 14    Geographical Distribution of Population and Services
Table 15    Rural and Urban Ambulatory Visits as Registered by INAMPS



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Population, Health and Nutrition Indicators
Total population (mid-1981)                               120,500,000
Population growth rate (1970-81)                              2.5%
Project population for year 2000                          177,000,000
Crude birth rate (1981)                                      30/1000
Crude death rate (1981)                                       8/1000
Total fertility rate (1980)                                   4.0
Rate of natural increase of the population (1980)             2.1%
Life expectancy at birth (1981)                             64 years
Infant mortality rate (aged 0-1) (1981)                      75/1000
Child death rate (aged 1-4) (1981)                            7/1000
Nutrition (1980):
Calorie intake as % of requirements                      109
Per capita protein intake (g/day)                      64.4
Source: World Development Report, World Bank, 1983, and Economic
Indicators, May 1983.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Infant Mortality Rate
(per 1000 live births)
1976         1980                          1976         1980
Brazil            97.7         68.1      Southeast            83.9         34.4
North            127.1         89.1      Minas Gerais         84.1         58.2
Rondonia         159.9         87.3      Espirito Santo       83.3         57.5
Acre             100.0         95.0      Rio de -Janeiro      91.1         62.4
Amazonas         114.4         63.5      Sao Paulo            81.2         54.2
Roraima          180.5         89.6
Para             132.7        102.6
Amapa             87.8         67.8
Northeast        150.9        107.2      South                67.8         46.1
Maranhao          53.8         39.1      Parana               77.7         53.1
Piaui             70.1         61.2      Santa Catarina       61.2         41.6
Ceara            130.2        108.0      Rio Grande do
Rio Grande       166.6        104.4       Sul                 57.5         40.6
do Norte
Paraiba          206.1        146.0
Pernambuco       240.8        196.6      Center West          81.2         45.2
Alagoas          209.7        148.1      Mato Grosso do Sul                60.6
Fdo. de Noronha  81.1         187.5      Mato Grosso          85.5 a/      33.7
Sergipe           65.7         50.1      Goias               79.2          43.1
Bahia            108.4         65.5      Federal District   79.6           43.6
a/ Includes Mato Grosso and Mato Grosso do SuL.
Source: Anuario Estatistico do Brasil, 1981.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Crude Death Rate
(per 1000 population)
1980                                       1980
Brazil                          6.9
North                           5.7           Southeast                     7.4
Rondonia                        6.7           Minas Gerais                  7.4
Acre                            5.5           Espiritu Santo                6.6
Amazonas                        5.4           Rio de Janeiro                8.3
Roraima                         5.9           Sao Paulo                     7.1
Para                            5.8
Amapa                           4.9
Northeast                       7.0           South                         6.5
Maranhao                        3.6           Parana                        6.5
Piaui                           4.5           Santa Catarina                5.7
Ceara                           6.5           Rio Grande do Sul             6.8
Rio Grande do Norte             6.5
Paraiba                         9.5
Pernambuco                     10.1           Center West                   5.5
Alagoas                         9.4           Mato Grosso do Sul            5.9
Fdo. de Noronha                 4.7           Mato Grosso                   4.8
Sergipe                         6.4           Goias                         5.7
Bahia                           6.3           Federal District              5.2
Source: Anuario Estatistico do Brasil, 1981.



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Ten Leading Causes of Mortality
by Regions (1977) a/
Ranking
C a u s e
North  Northeast  Southeast  South  Center-West
Enteritis                     1         1           1         3          1
Neoplasms                     4         3           2         2         2
Pneumonia                     2         4           7         4         6
Peri-natal mortality          5         7           8         7         5
Heart ischemia                3         5           5         1          8
Other heart diseases          6         6           4         6         3
Malaria                      10
Other infectious and
parasitic diseases           9                     6         8         10
Obstetrical causes            8         8           9         9         7
Cerebrovascular disease       7         2           3         5         4
Cirrhosis                              10                    10
Meningitis                                                               9
Other respiratory diseases                         10
Tuberculosis                            9
a/ Based on death registrations for representative municipalities.
Source: Anuario Estatistico do Brasil, 1981.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Morbidity Indicators (1979):
Case Rates of Some Infectious Diseases
(Cases per 100,000 persons)
Malaria                                                    64.68
Measles                                                    52.51
Whooping Cough                                             29.40
Tuberculosis                                               25.64
Meningitis                                                 13.14
Leprosy                                                     7.09
Diphtheria                                                  3.85
Thyphoid Fever                                              2.98
Tetanus                                                     2.37
Poliomyelitis                                               2.00
Source: Anuario Estatistico do Brasil, 1981.



BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Nutrition Indicators by Region
and Age Group (1975)
% of age Group
Age Group            Brazil              NE             SE            Frontier
Adequately nourished a/             Birth - 5.99 months        71.3              63.6           76.0             73.9
6.00 -11.99              65.2              53.8           73.6             62.6
1.00 - 1.99 years        56.1              43.4           64.9             53.2
2.00 - 4.99              47.0              36.5           54.6             41.5
First degree malnutrition           Birth - 5.99 months        17.4             20.4            16.1             13.7
6.00 -11.99   "          22.3              26.4           19.6             22.4
1.00 - 1.99 years        32.2              35.5           30.0             33.0         X
2.00 - 4.99              38.1              40.7           35.8             41.5
Second degree malnutrition          Birth - 5.99 months         8.9              12.3            6.6              8.6
6.00 -11.99              11.0              17.0             6.6            12.7
1.00 - 1.99 years        11.1              19.6            5.1             13.2
2.00 - 4.99   "          14.8              22.7            9.6             15.8
Third degree malnutrition b/        Birth - 5.99 months         2.5              3.7             1.4              3.6
6.00 -11.99   "           1.4               2.9            0.3              2.4
1.00 - 1.99 years         0.6               1.5             c/              0.6
2.00 - 4.99               0.2                c/              -              1.2
a/ Defined here as weighing above 90% of the median of
the FAO/WHO standard distribution of weight by age.
b/ Third degree malnutrition may be underestimated because
some children who were obviously far below normal weights
were dropped before the final tabulations.
c/ Less than 0.1%.                                                                                                      > 
Source: Brazil, Human Resources Special Report,
Annex II, World Bank, July 1979.



BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Percentage of Women Age 15-44 at Risk of Unplanned Pregnancy and
Corresponding Number of Women in Need of Family Planning Services, *
Brazil, El Salvador, Guatemala, Panama and Paraguay
% of Women
Total                             at Risk of
Year of        Population          Women            Unplanned         Women 15-44
Country            Survey         (millions)          15-44 **         Pregnancy          in Need *
Brazil
Sao Paulo         1978             25.0            6,209,000             8.6              534,000
Piaui             1979              2.1               459,000           20.3               93,000
R.G. do Norte    1980                1.9              423,000           10.9               46,000
Paraiba           1980              2.8               594,000           11.9               71,000
Pernambuco        1980              6.1             1,354,000           11.0              149,000
Bahia             1980              9.5             2,007,000           18.3              367,000
Parana            1981              7.6             1,782,000            4.9               87,000
El Salvador         1978               4.8              710,000            16.2             115,000
Guatemala           1978               7.0            1,399,000           26.8              375,000
Panama              1979               1.9              405,000            12.3              50,000
Paraguay            1977               3.3              655,000           24.9              163,000
* In need of family planning services defined as fecund, sexually active
women (regardless of marital status) who were not using contraception
and who were not pregnant and did not desire a pregnancy at the time
of interview (as determined by surveys for which FPED/CDC provided
technical assistance).                               
**  For Brazil, from 1980 census; for other countries, estimates for the
year of the survey.
*** Rounded to nearest thousand.
Source: Centers for Disease Control, Department of Health and Human Services, US, 1982.



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Table 8
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Status of Contraceptive Prevalence Information for Latin America-a/
June 1982
Percent of Married        Population
Year of Survey            Women 15-44             Estimate
Field Work          Using Contraception b/  (millions)
WFS   CPS a/   CPS b/  WFS    CPS a/   CPS b/           1980      CBR c/
Caribbean
Cuba                                                                    10.0      18
Dom. Republic  1975  (1983)       1980 d/ 33                 43 d/       5.4      32
Haiti           1977                       19                            5.8      42
Jamaica          1976   1979               41      51***                 2.2      27
Puerto Rico             1974    (1982)             61*                   3.5      23
Trinidad &       1977                      52                            1.2      25
Tobago                                                                 28.3
Middle America
Costa Rica       1976   1978      1981    64**   64          65          2.2      29
El Salvador             1975      1978             22        34          4.8      40
Guatemala               1978    (1982)             18                    7.0      44
Honduras                1981                       25                    3.8      46
Mexico           1976   1978      1979    30*    38          40         68.2      36
Nicaragua               1981                                             2.6      46
Panama          1976   1974       1979    54**   31          61          1.9      28
90.5
South America
Argentina                                                               27.2      26
Bolivia                                                                  5.3      44
Brazil (States)                                                        119.1      32
Sao Paulo             1978                       64                   25.0      24
Piaui                 1979    (1982)             31                    2.1      41
Bahia                 1980                       31                    9.5      42
Paraiba               1980                       43                    2.8      38
Pernambuco            1980                       41                    6.1      33
Rio Grande do         1980                       47                    1.9      38
Norte
Parana                1981                       62                    7.6
Santa Catarina        1981                       63                    3.7
Rio Grande do Sul   1981                         71                    7.9
Amazonas             (1982)                                            1.4
Other States                                                          51.0
Chile                                                                   10.8      22
Colombia         1976   1978      1980    42       46        49         26.7      29
Ecuador         1979  (1982)                                             8.0      42
Guyana           1975                      32                            0.9      28
Paraguay        1979   1977                32      24                    3.3      40
Peru            1977   1981                31                           17.6      41
Uruguay                (1982)                                            2.9      21
Venezuela        1977  (1982)              46                           13.9      32
235.7
354.5
* Ever married women 15-49
** Married women 20-49
*** Ever married women 14-44
a/ Includes countries with 500,000 or more population.
b/ Includes women in consensual union.
c/ Crude birth rate available for year of contraceptive prevalence data;
if no contraceptive prevalence data or contraceptive prevalence data
not yet available, the crude birth rate is for the most recent year
available.
, / r.-rc o)



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Table 9
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Health Expenditures, Total Federal Expenditures
and the Health Share of Expenditures, 1978-1982
(Billions of 1980 US$)
Year             Health              Total Expenditures        Percentage
1978, actual         4.20                      19.57                   21.5%
1979, actual         4.23                      19.82                   21.4%
1980, actual         4.19                      21.59                   19.4%
1981, actual         3.97                      20.26                   19.6%
1982, budgeted       3.49                      20.05                   17.4%
Source: SEPLAN, 1982



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Table 10
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
INAMPS Expenditures by Reg-ion, 1982
Region        INAMPS expenditures, 1982  Populat:Lon  Expenditures to equalize
(US$ billion)          Share       per capita expenditures
%              (US$ billion)
North                   0.09                 4.9                  0.16
Northeast               0.62                29.3                  0.98
Southeast               1.83                43.5                  1.45
South                  0.59                 16.0                  0.53
Center-West            0.20                  6.3                  0.21
General Administra-   0.31                   0.0                  0.31
tion and other
Total                   3.64               100.0                  3.64
Source: INAMPS; IBGE.



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Table 11
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Percentage Distribution, Five Major Regions,
(Federal Revenues, SINPAS Revenues, Nonmedical Expenditures
Under Social Security and Medical Expenditures of
INAMPS, 1981, Except as Indicated)
Federal       SINPAS      Nonmedical Ben.,         INAMPS
Region           Revenues    Revenues         Paid, 1979         Expenditures
North              1.5          1.9               2.0                  2.4
Northeast          6.2          9.0              16.4                 17.2
Southeast         62.7         62.6              63.0                52.6
South              9.7         14.2              15.8                 18.8
Center-West       19.9          4.1               2.5                 6.0
Other              0.0          8.2               0.3                  3.0
Total         100.0        100.0             100.0               100.0
Source: SEPLAN (1982); INAMPS (1982); MPAS, DATAPREV (1980)



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Table 12
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Preventive and Curative Shares of Brazilian
Health Expenditures
(Percentage Distribution, Selectecl Years, 1949-1982)
Medical-Hospita,l                 Primary
Year                             or                            or
Curative                    Preventive
1949                           12.9                          87.1
1965                           35.8                          64.1
1969                           59.2                          40.8
1975                           70.2                          29.7
1978                           81.3                          18.7
1979                           81.9                          18.1
1980                           84.5                          15.5
1981                           82.2                          17.8
1982 (budget)                  84.6                          15.4
Note: Resources of Ministerio de Previdencia e Assistencia
Social counted as curative health expenditures and
all others as preventive.
Source: 1949-75 Knight and Moran (1979), p. 41
1978-82 SPI/CNRH/IPEA



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Table 13
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Health Manpower
Number of
Number of             Ratio             doctors
Year      Population         doctors             Pop./doctor         trained
1971      95,993,400         49,209                1,951/1            3,721
1972      98,690,200         51,700                1,909/1            5,301
1973     101,432,600         55,709                1,821/1            6,613
1974     104,243,300         60,929                1,711/1            7,722
1975     107,145,200         67,128                1,596/1            8,284
1976     110,123,500         73,734                1,494/1            8,641
1977     113,208,500         80,532                1,406/1            9,201
1978     116,393,100         87,720                1,327/1            9,412
1979     119,670,000         94,939                1,260/1            8,929
1980     123,032,100        101,495                1,212/1            9,109
Source: Ministry of Education and Culture; Associagao Brasileira de Escolas
de Medicina; IBGE.
Nursing Personnel
Nurses                Auxiliary Nurses
Number      Ratio          Number      Ratio
Nurse/Pop.                 Aux/Pop.
Brazil (1979)       18,334    1.5/10,000        91,005    8.8/10,000
Latin Am. (1981)        ..    2.7/10,000            ..    7.9/10,000



BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Geographical Distribution of Population and Services
(1978)
Number of Hospital Beds
Trauma
and
Obstetrics/                                       Orthopedic                         Ratio
Area       Population    General   Gynecology   Pediatrics   Surgery  Psychiatric   Surgery   Others   Total    beds/100 pop.
North            4,627,200       2,791      1,575           1,558      1,190         921          270      6,002   14,307       3.1
Northeast 1/   34,487,900       13,676     12,913         12,390       8,443      13,914        1,168    16,562   79,066        2.3
Southeast       48,957,800      47,801     25,083         30,496      24,915      66,709        5,555    62,521  263,080        5.4
South           21,142,500      27,984     10,286         11,964      11,442      12,007        1,285    17,329   92,297        4.4
Center-West      7,177,700       2,692      2,120          2,649       1,550       3,859          391    13,371   26,632        3.7
Total Brazil  116,393,100       94,944     51,977         59,057      47,540      97,410        8,669   115,785  475,382        4.1
1/ Excludes Fdo. de Noronha.
Source: Anuario Estatistico do Brazil, 1981.
m M4
H_ H



BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Rural and Urban Ambulatory Visits as Registered by INAMPS - 1980   1/
('000)
I !                  Number of Visits                             Type of Visits
Internal    Obstetrics
Area        Population    Rural    Urban    Total    Emergency    Medicine    Gynecology    Pediatrics    Others
North  2/             5,893       1,155    4,369    5,524          627         2,027          656            899         1,314
Northeast  3/        34,862       7,376   24,460   31,836        4,439        11,014        3,811          5,480        7,092
Southeast            51,753       6,392   96,216  102,608       26,467        29,429       9,771         12,857        24,085
South                19,036       3,686   28,023   31,709        4,534        12,695        3,597         4,965         5,918
UL
Central-West          7,555         935    7,139    8,074        1,381         2,039        1,037          1,426        2,191
Total Brazil        119,099      19,544  160,207  179,751       37,448        57,204       18,872         25,627        40,600
1/ No data on ambulatory visits available through state facilities.
2/ Excluding Amapa, Rondonia and Roraima.
3/ Excluding Fdo. de Noronha.
Source: Anuario Estatistico do Brasil, 1981.
tln



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Supplementary Data on Saa PauLo
Table 1       Project Area Data (1980)
Table 2       Income (1977)
Table 3       Main Causes of Death in Less Than One-Year-Olds in
the Five Project Areas (:L980)
Table 4       Morbidity:  Diagnosis of Hospital Discharged Patients
in a Four-Month Period (1L979)
Table 5       Morbidity Indicators: Case Rate of Some Infectious
Diseases (1981)
Table 6       General and Psychiatric Hospitals in Metropolitan
Sao Paulo by Bed-Size Category and Ownership
(1980)
Table 7       Number of Hospital Beds in Metropolitan Sao Paulo
by Type of Ownership (1980)
Table 8       Health Facilities by Ownership in the Metropolitan
Area of Sao Paulo
Table 9       Health Manpower Compositior, in Sao Paulo (1981)



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTE CARE
PROJECT AREA DATA
(1980)
1980     Population   Population    Infant        Access     Access        Slum     Poverty
PROJECT AREAS        Population  Growth Rate   Density      Mortality   to Piped  to Sewerage  Dwellers  Incidence
('000)    (C p.a.)    ('000/km2)   (per 1000        Water   (X Pop.)   (% Pop.)  (% Pop.)a/
__________________ __  _   _live births)  (% Pop.)                    (1977)
Main Target Areas
Freguesia do 0       584,304        2.86         12.5          38.2        95.0       40.Oe        4.3        55.0
Itaquera-Guaianazes  565,325        7.99          4.5          69.2        85.Oe       5.0e        3.5        74.0
Cotia                 62,952        7.12          0.2          54.4        30.7       12.1         ..         54.3
Caieiras             153,972        5.25          0.2          64.8        38.0       26.7         ..         50.0e
Maua                 282,365        7.55          2.1          61.6         22.0      16.6         ..         72.0
Sub-total          1,648,918        5.8           6.4          55.9        71.3       21.7         ..         64.0
"Extension Points"
Tucuruvi             462,800        28.8          5.2          75.5         35.Oe      40.Oe       2.0
Vila Maria           131,000        12.3         11.8          78.0         30.0e      30.Oe       8.0
Santo Amaro          766,800       103.3          8.1          90.0         15.Oe      15.Oe      20.2
Jabaquara            266,600       36.3          12.1          70.0         15.Oe      25.Oe       6.4
Penha de Franca      142,500        3.4          12.2          65.0        20.Oe       35.0e       1.0
Butantan             318,400       81.1           5.9          68.0        30.0e       30.0e      14.8
Vila Prudente        496,500        38.2         15.7          60.5        40.0e       40.Oe       7.5
Lapa                 134,500         9.8          6.2          55.0         50.Oe      35.Oe       0.1
Sae Miguel Paulista  445,700      212.4          38.8          65.0        35.0'       40.0o       2.7
Sub-total          3,164,800b/      58.0         13.0          70.0        30.0        32.0        7.0        70..
TOTAL:             4,813,718
a/ i of families with income less than five minimum salaries.
bl About 0.8 million of this population would be served by project UBS.
e: Staff estimates.
Source: IBGE, CIS, SABESP, EMPLASA



BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Income (1977) a/
Freguesia         Itaquera-         Cotia        Caieiras         Maua       Project        G S P b/
do 0           Guaianazes                                                   Area
% of population
earning:
0-3 minimum salaries         27                38.8               ..            ..             ..          ..           23.7
3-5                          28                35.2               ..            ..             ..          ..           24.9
0-5                          55                74.0              54.3           50e            72e         64           48.6
5-12                         37                22.7               ..            ..             ..          ..           34.0
12+                           8                 3.3               ..            ..             ..          ..           17.4
a/  A family earning less than five minimum salaries is
considered below the poverty level. A minimum salary in
October 1981 was Cr$ 8,465, equal to US$ 75/month.
b/  Ten municipalities, accounting for about 100,000 people,
are excluded.
Source: Pesquisa O-D, EMPLASA, 1977.
m ><



BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Main Causes of Death in Less than One Year Olds
in the Five Project Areas - 1980
(Number of Cases)
Causes              Freguesia          Itaquera-        Cotia         Caieiras        Maua        Project             G S P
do 0           Guaianazes                                                     Area             (1979)
Enteritis                     106               270               20              35          168            599              4,788
Pneumonia                    147                290               28              56           86           607              3,979
Birth Injuries               160                173               20              64          134            551             5,291
Other Perinatal diseases    84                  125               17              28           80            334             2,469
Nutritional deficiencies    31                   46               11              28            6            122              1,151
Other infectious               13                38                2              10            5             68                736
diseases
Measles                        20                 30               -               7            7             64                448
Meningitis                      8                31                4               2            4             49                264
Sub-total A          569             1,003              102             230          490          2,394             19,126
Congenital abnormali-         41                 47                5              17           41            151              1,154
ties
Other ill-defined              *                  12               3              20           12             47                463
Other heart diseases            8                 13               -               -            5             26                  *
Other causes                  79                112                9              37           32            269             2,407
Sub-total B           128                184              17              74           90            493              4,024
Total                 697              1,187             119             304          580          2,887             23,150
(of which % of A)            81.6               84.5             85.7           75.7          84.5          82.9                82.6
(*) Included in Other Causes"
Source:  CIS



- 62 -ANNEX 2
BRAZIL                             Table 4
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Morbidity: Diagnosis of Hospital Discharged Patients
in a Four-Month Period - Sao Paulo Municipality - 1979
Total
Diagnosis                   Jan.    Apr.    Jul.    Oct.          No.           x
Normal Delivery                     431     456      4C9      420        1,716        15.08
Direct obstetrical causes           344     358      349      318        1,369        12.03
Ill-defined signs and symp-
toms                             384      301      270     331        1,286        11.30
Other respiratory tract
diseases                         225      247      302      263       1,037         9.11
Diseases of other parts of
gastro-intestinal tract          149      173      199      162         683          6.00
Intestinal infectious diseases   152        103       9.5      75          425         3.73
Genito-urinary diseases             112      93       88      122          415         3.65
Neoplasms                            77     107      10:2     101          387         3.40
Pulmonary circulation diseases
and other heart diseases          84      106       89     104          383         3.37
Endocrine and metabolic
diseases                          53       43       56      44          196         1.72
Other causes                       781      855      893      953       3,482         30.61
T 0 T A L           2,792   2,842   2,852   2,893          11,379       100.00
Source: SEADE - Anuario Estatistico do Estado de Sao Paulo - 1980.



BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Morbidity Indicators (1981):
Case Rate of Some Infectious Diseases /a
(Cases per 100,000 persons)
Causes              Freguesia          Itaquera-         Cotia        Caleiras         Maua         G S P.
do 0           Guaianazes                                                     (1979)
Measles                       8.80               7.48            13.85          23.99          3.07         13.03
Tetanus                       0.16
Diphtheria                    0.83               2.38             -              1.26          0.34          0.78                    a'
Typhoid Fever                 0.49                -               -              2.52           -             0.28
Meningitis
(meningococcal)            2.49               0.85              -              2.52         1.71
Aseptic Meningitis            8.80               4.59            16.92           8.21          4.09
/a As these data are derived from notifications, they probably underestimate
the true case rate, especially for measles.
Source: CIS



BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
General and Psychiatric Hospitals in Metropolitan Sao Paulo
by Bed Size Category and Ownership - 1980
Sao Paulo Municipality                               Other Municipalities                          Total
Bed Size Proprietary Nonprofit Government Subtotal Proprietary Nonprofit Government Subtotal
Category  Gen  Psych   Gen Psych  Gen  Psych  Gen Psych Gen  Psych  Gen Psych  Gen Psych   Gen Psych  Gen Psych All
6-24        3      1       -    -      1      -       4   1      3    -       1    -      2    -        6    -       10   1    11
25-49      15      1       -    -      1      -      16   1      6    -       3    -      2    -       11    -       27   1    28
50-99      27      3       9    1      2      -      38   4    12    2        5    2      2    -       19    4       57   8    65
100-199   25       7      11    3      6      1      42  11    18    2        7    -      I    -       26    2       68  13    81
20u-299     9      4       9    1      5      1      23   6      5    3       4    -       1    -      10    3       33   9    42
300-399     3      2       6    -      3      1      12   3      2    2       1    1      -    -        3    3       15   6    21
400-499     2      -       1    -      1      -       4   -      1    2       -    -      -    -        1    2        5   2      7
500+        -      1       5    1      3      -       8   2      -    1       -    -      -    1        -    2        8   4    12
Total      84    19       41    6    22       3    147  28    47   12    21    3          8    1       76   16    223  44   267
Source:  Sao Paulo State Health Secretariat, Hospital Division.                                                                        >
o x



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
Table 7
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Number of Hospital Beds in Metropolitan Sao Paulo
by Type and Ownership - 1980
Types of        Sao Paulo Municipality                  Other Municipalities            Total
Beds    Proprietary Nonprofit Government Proprietary Nonprofit Government Number            %
General    10,529       10,699       7,366      6,060       2,438          591   37,683   68.5
Psych.       3,482       1,261         635       3,336         481       5,877   15,072   27.4
Tubercu-      -            120         545        -            163       -          828    1.5
losis
Dermatol-    -           -           -           -           -          1,389    1,389    2.5
ogy
Total       14,011      12,080      8,546       9,396       3,082       7,857   54,972  100
X        25.5        22.0        15.5        17.1         5.6        14.3         100
Source:  Sao Paulo State Health Secretariat, Hospital Division



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
Table 8
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Health Facilities by Ownership
in the Metropolitan Area of Sao Paulo
SES    SHS    INAMPS    Private   Other   Total
Health Centers           203    56 a/                                  259
Ambulatory Care                           23                            23
Emergency Care                    5                                      5
Hospitals                 16      7        5          193       16     237
a/ Municipality of Sao Paulo, plus 96 in other municipalities of the
region.



- 67 -
ANNEX 2
Table 9
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Health Manpower Composition in Sao Paulo (1981)
(INAMPS, State and Municipal Health Secretariats)
Total Health
Direct Services        INAMPS         State       Municipal       Manpower in
Health Manpower                                                    Sao Paulo
Physicians         1,750    57%   2,556   17%   1,826    30%        6,132   25.4
Dentists              96     3%      395    3%      114     2%       605     2.5
Nurses               148     5%      216    1%      384     6%       748     3.0
Other Prof.          143     5%      794    5%      316     5%    1,253      5.0
Technicians          141   4.5%   1,994   13%         0     0%    2,135      9.0
Auxiliaries          611    20%   2,775   19%   1,226    20%    4,612    19.0
Atendentes           193     6%   6,158   41%   2,224    36%    8,575    36.0
3,082   100%  14,888  100%   6,090   100%   24,068   100.0



- 68 -
ANNEX 3
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH: CARE
Project Services and Facilities
Table  1                   Project Services
Tables 2 - 3                Project Facilities
Table  4                   Project-Related Research Studies



-  69 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO  BASIC  HEALTH  CARE
Functions and Relative Care Contents of
The New Model of Health Services
RELATIVE CONTENTS a/
HEALTH MODULE              Existing
FUNCTIONS                        Basic Health    General      Referral Health
Unit        Hospital        Facilities
Health Problem
Common and Nonspecific                         3             2                0
Less Common and Specific                       2             3                1
Rare and Complicated                           0             1                3
Site of Care
Ambulatory                                     3             1                0
In-Patient (General Care)                      0             3                1
.  In-Patient (Intensive Care)                    0             0                3
Referral Pattern
Direct Access                                  3             1                0
Referral                                       2             2                3
Extent of Responsibility
Continuing Care                                3             1                1
Intermittent Care                              1             2                1
.  Episodic Care                                  0             1                3
Information Source
Patient and Family                             3             2                1
Epidemiological Data Base                      3             2                1
Biomedical Data Base                           1             2                3
Use of Technology
Office Laboratory                              3             I                1
Regular Lab and X-Ray                          1             3                3
Complex Equipment and Staff                    0             0                3
Orientation
Prevention and Health Maintenance              3             2                0
E Early Diagnosis and Disability
Containment                                 3             3                1
.  Palliation x Rehabilitation                    1             2                3
Training Needed
Broad and General                              3             1                0
Concentrated                                   1             3                2
.  Narrow and Highly Specialized                  0   ,         1                3
a/  Contents:  3 - high; 2 - medium; 1   m minimum; and 0 = none
See page 2 for a specific example on functions and service contents of a UBS
for 0-11 months of age users.



BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Example: Health Care for 0-11 Months Age Group in Basic Health Units
(WHAT)                   (WHEN)             (WHO)         (WHERE)
Health Problem            Activity                   Moment          Responsible       Local    Observe
Low Birth Weight   Control of risk factors   During Pregnancy.  Visitor, nurse   Hone            See prenatal care.
(12%)                                                            doctor             BHU
Clinical diagnosis          1st 24 hrs. of      Nurse, doctor    Rosp.    Ref. Hospital.
life.                                  BIWU
Medical & nursing care    Following diagno-  Nurse, doctor    llone
sis.                                   BIIU
hosp.
Complications manage-       During follow-up   Doctor, nurse    ilosp.    Lab. tests.
ment
Rehabilitation              During follow-up   Nurse, doctor    Hlome       G 6 0 tests.
BIIU
Slow Growth and    Control of risk factors   During pregnancy   Visitor, nurse   Home            See Prenatal care.
Development                                     and lactation        doctor            BIIU      In risk.
-J
(35%)                                                                                                                 o
Screening                   Discretional        Aux. nurse         Home      Factor families.
BHU
Clinical diagnosis          3, 6, 12 month      Nurse, doctor    Hone        Eventual referen-
or In any                              BUll     ces to hospttal
*medical visits.      ,                          for specialized
care of service
cases.
Medlcal 6 nuratng care    following diagno-  Nurse, doctor    Hlome
sts.                visitor            BIIU
Follou-up                  During lst year of Nurse, visitor   Home
life.                                 BIIU
Reliabilitation             During follow-up   Psychologist,    llome
nmrse             R!IU
Respirat.           Control of risk factors   During gestation   Visitor, nurse   Home
Infection                                       ant   ?              doctor            BUl
(6C)           Cllnical diagnosis         With early respi-  Nurse, doctor   BHIIJ
ratory slmp-
tomes                                              
Nursing and medical care  Following diagno-  Nurse, doctor    Hone
Co-oplicatlons man.tgemnent  Im..e.ll.tely .after  Nurse, doctor    BillU
ld-!ntific-ition                      llospttal
NOTE:  The table has been fullv developed, for tlC 1t) most Imnp,rtant health problems durtng the child's first
year of life.



- 71 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
Page   1
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
FREGUESIA DO 0 (MSP):  EXISTING AND PROPOSED BASIC HEALTH UNITS
Health      District         Name of Unit         Size        Population in          Operated by                To Be      To Be
Module                                            (m2)       Catchnent Area    State          Munic.   Rented Renovated constructed
(1981)
Casa Verde   Casa Verde Baixa         -              29,929                                                       x
Jardim Laranjeiras      -               10,327           x                               x
Parque Peruche          568             32,081           K                               x
I          Limao         Vila Barbosa I           255             6,824           x                                x
Vila Barbosa II         --              18,179                                                      x
Vila Siqueira           --              18,092                                                      x
subtotal 115,432
Nosesa Sra.   Vila Albertina                         18,728           x                                x
2          do 0          Vila Bancaria/V.Palmeira--              24,227                                                       x
Monjolo                 -              20,365            x                                          x
Itaberaba               --             16,791                         x                  x
subtotal  80,111
Cachoeirinha Vila Dionisia            --             18,640                                                       x
Vila N. Cachoeirinha   -                13,996                                                      x
3          Nossa Sra.
do 0         Vila Ramos               255            16,810            x                               x
Limao         Vila Santa Maria         190           25,082            x
Vila Espanhola          --              17,320                                                      x
Casa Verde   Casa Verde Alta          365            24,866                                                      x
Sitio Mandaqui          --             13,193                                                       x
subtotal 129,907
Nosea Sra.   Jardim Sao Jose          --              19,717                                                      x
do 0          Cruz das Almas          450            21,892                          x
Vila Zatti              568             20,469           x                               x
Paulistano              -               10,315                                                      x
4           Brasilandia  Brasilandia              469             15,861                                                      x
Sitio Morro Grande      --             12,268                                                       x
Vila Icarai             -               11,265                                                      x
subtotal 111,787
Brasilandia  Vila Penteado            ---             33,320                                                      x
Vila Souza              -               18,920                                                      x
V.Souza/Parque Tiete   146              11,603           x
5                        Vila Guarani             847            36,619                          x
Vila Terezinha           64             14,545                                                      x
Vista Alegre            847             10,747                         x
Cohab                   615                219                         x
Parada de Taipas        ---             16,742                                                      x
subtotal 142,715
TOTAL         579,952           9             5                  7        19



- 72 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
Page 2
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARJI
ITAQUERA/GUIAUZES (MSP): EXISTING AND PROPOSED BASIC HEALTH UNITS
Health      District          Name of Unit          Size         Population in    _   Operated by                    To Be      To Be
Module                                              (a2)        Catchuent Area    State            Munic.   Rented Renovated Constructed
(1981)
Itaquera      Jardim Tiete              198             28,657            x                                x
Cidade Sao Mateos        480             24,000            x                         x
Sao Nateus II-III        -               13,319                                                         x
Sao Mateua I             -               42,135                                                         x
Jardin Colonial           198            16,742            x                                 x
Cid. Satelite Sta.
Barbara                 198              8,317            x                                 x
Jardia Carraoainho       318              6,094            x                                 x
Jardim Colorado          476             13,559                           x
I                        Parque Sao Rafael         565             26,643            K                                X
Par.Boa Esperanca        565             18,284            x                                 x
Jardim Santo Andre       198             11,364            a                                 x
Jardim Laranjeiras       -                3,365                                                         x
Rio Claro                -                5,557            K
Guaianazes   Jardim Roseli              568             13,902            x                                x
subtotal231 ,938
Itaquera      Cohab I                   615              3,267                          x
Cohab II                 615              2,271                           x
Guaianazes   Jardim Sao Pedro           847             21,286                          x
Cidade Lider              113             4,000                           x          x
Cidade Lider A           -               10,087                      priv.                              x
2                         Cidade Lider B            295             10,856                           x
Sta. harcelina                            9,474                           x
V. Carmosina             --              11,984                                                         x
N. S. Do Carmo           -                8,756                                                         x
Jardim Helian            ---              3,273                                                         x
subtotal 85,254
Itaquera      Itaquera                  904             16,536            x                                x
Cid. A.E. Carvalho       -               13,160                           x                             x
V. Regina                -                9,726
3                         Santana                   --              16,359                           x                             x
V. Progresso              847            23,110
N.S. Aparecida            --             16,524                                                          x
Parada XV                 --             17,917                                                         x
Jardim Etelvina          ---              14,107                                                        x
Guaianazes  Jardim Robru 1             255             15,291            x
Jardim Robr. II          ---              6,601                                                         x
subtotal 149,331
Itaquera    Joao Neri                  --              13,186                                                         x
Jardim Aurora            --              17,655                                                         x
Lageado                  --               8,937                      priv.
4            Guaianazes  Chabilandia                 568            18,176            K
Guaianazes                180             4,000            a                         X
Guayanazes A              330            10,679                           x
Guayanazes B             --              17,901                      priv.
Jardim Soares +]Sao
Paulo      847             15,118                          x
Cohab (Prestes MaWa)   615                5,146                           x
subtotal 110,798
TOTAL    577,321            1'            12           3        9        15
(MSP) Districts where 38 "EXTENSION POINTS" will be Located:  1. Butantan (3); 2. Jabaquara (5); 3. Vila Prudente
(7); 4. Lapa (3); 5. Tucuruvi (3); 6. Penha de Franca (6); 7. Sao Miguel Paulista (3); and 8. Santo Amaro (8).



- 73 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
Page 3
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
COTIA (GSp)   RUSTING AND PROPOSED BASIC HEALTHI UNITS
Health     Municipality    Na  of Unit             Size       Population in          operated by                To Be      To Be
Module                                            (m2)       Catch ent Area    State           munic.   Rented Renovated constructed
(1981)
Cotia         Rio Cotia               -               12 .000                                                      x
I                        Ceucaic do Alto          185             15.000          x                                x
Granja Viane             170            12.000          x                                 x
Vargem Gd..  Jardin Belavista          -               9.747                                                       x
subtotal  48.747           2                                2           2
CAIEIRAS (GSP):  EXISTING AND PROPOSED BASIC HEALTH UNITS
Municipality
Caietras      Centro                  -               20 .000                                                      x
Vera Tereza             --              12.000                                                       x
Laranjeiras             -               10 .000                                                      x
Mairipora    Bairro Terra Preta       -               10 .000                                                      x
Centro                  558             17 .489         x                                x
Franco da
Rocha        Centro                   305            20 .000          x                                x
Parque Vitoria          -               15 .000                                                      x
Vila Rosalina                           15.000                                                       s
Francisco
Morato        Parque Paulista         --                                                                           x
Centro                   285            10.000          x                                x
Parque 120               -              10 .000                                                      x
Caja3ar       Centro                1.020              4.000          x                                x
Jordanesia              -               12 .000                                                      x
Bairro do
Polvilho                 ---             6.000                                                       x
TOTAL                                161 .489         4                                4          10
MAUA (GSP): EXISTING AND PROPOSED BASIC HEALTH UNITS
Maua          Jardim Sonia Maria       --             20.000                                                        x
Vila Assis Brazil       --              20 .000                                                      x
Jard. Primavera/Vila   ---              16 .000                                                      x
Mercedes
Parque das Americas    -                12 .000                                                      x
Parque das Americas/
Vila Florida            ---             26,000                                                        x
Jardim Zaira-I/Gleba C ---              16,000                                                       x
Jard.Coimbra/B.Feitol  --               16,000                                                       x
Parque Seo Vicente      --              10,000                         x
Jardim Itapark           196             4,000                         x                   x
Alex. Fleming            196             8,000                         x
Maua Centro           1,365             20.000          x                                  x
I                        Jard. Zairs              618             12,000                         x
Vila San Joao           --               4,000                         x                   x
Jardin Santista          --              9.817                                                       x
J. Zaira/Gleba C        --              12,000                                                       x
Jardim Oratorio          -              12,000                                                       x
Ribeirao      Centro I                --              13,000                                                       x
Pires         Santa Luzia              --             12,487          x                                  x
Ouro Fino                198             4,000                                                       x
Vila Nova Suissa        -               14,000                                                       x
Bairro Alianca          --              13,000                                                       x
Rio Grande   Centro                    -              12,000                                                       x
da Serra      Rio G. da Serra          147             8,102          x                                  x
TO.TAL              294,406           3              5                  5         IT



SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CAR15
EXISTING AND PROPOSED IIBALTH FACILITIES
Basic Health Unit (UBS)
Existing Facilities                                  Proposed UBS
Main                                                                   Of Which
Project Areas   Population '000   State   Municipal  Total (A)  Owned    Ranted   Nev (B)   Remodeling  Total  Grand Total
(A + B)
1. Preguesda             580             9            5         14         14         -          19           7          26         33
do 0
2. Itaquera-             577            14           12         26         22          4         15           9          24         41
Cuajanazes
3. Cotia                  49             3a/          -          3          3         -           2           2           4          5
4. Caietres               161            4            -          4           4         -         10            4         14          14
5. Haua                  294             3            5          8           8         -         15           6          21         23
Sub-totals         1,661            33          22          55         51         4         61           28         89         116
'EXTENSION POINTS"   2,719               -            -          -          -          -         38           -          38         38
TOTAL              4,380            33          22          55         51         4         99           28        127         154
Hospitals
Area                              Existing Facilities                                                                                                Proposed Facilities
State           Municipal              Private            Total               To Be       To Be        To Be       To Be Constructed         Iotal      Total   Beds/1000
NaD     No. Beds   Name   No. Beds    Name  No. Beds   No.  No. Beds             Acquired   Upgraded   Extended          Name    No. Beds    New Beds   Beds    Population
No. Beds   No. Beds   No. Beds
t re    - ."-sia                                                                                                                           LiVso        220
do 0         Cachoei-  (96)          -         -        Verde       97                                 -                                  Nos6a        220
rinha b/                                   Santa                                                                           Sra de 0
Clara      33       3       228                                                Brasilandia  220            660        888         1.42
Nossa
Sra de 0      98
2. Itaquera-                                              Santa
Gunianazes       -          -    Itaquera   258*  Marcellina   310            2       568               -           -           -         S. Mateus   220
Gualanates   220           440        1008        1.71
3. Cotia            -          -         -        -          Cotia      59 c/   1         59               -            _         115                                   115         174        2.70 di
4. Cateiras       Juquan     142e/        -        _     Caieiras      142 e/                                          86          56              _          _        142e/        142
_  airipora     55       3       211               -          -            --             -         -             -        211        2.30   d/
Cajasar      14                                 -            -
5. Saua             -          -         -          -         ?        246
?        123
?        190       3       559             226                                                           226         785        2.77 d/
(Nardini   (226)f /
_ T42              F1   2     58        1l   1I 367        T       1,625            2f6           i86         171           -5        -. 00      1583        3,208    lT.8X8
a/ Operated by the State - ownership various,                                                          / Almost completed and partially included for project financing.                                  I  N
b/ A specialized facility for high-risk mAternity cases - not included in total.
c/ Plus a private, specialized (TR) hospital of 275 beds.
d! To serve other mun.cipaiities and rapid population growth.
e/ 142 general heds of the Juqueri PsychiAtric Nospital.
f/ Completed but not opened.



- 75 -
ANNEX 3
Table 4
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Project-Related Studies-
(Provisional List)
I.   Manpower Management
a) Health personnel, productivity and career development
b) Labor markets for health workers
c) Management alternatives
d) Employment conditions, motivation and personnel turnover
e) Health workers "rotation" through ambulatory and hospital services
f) Evaluation of tr4ining programs
II.  Support and Diagnostic Services
a) Feasibility studies on centralized support services
b) Logistics of drug supply and other materials
c) Effectiveness of milk distribution programs
d) Use of diagnostic aids in basic health units
e) Cost/benefit of diagnostic services centralized in Hospitals
III. Health Care Services
a) Criteria for patient referral and hospital admission
b) Quality control of services
c) Anthropometric measures in nutrition surveillance
d) Pilot testing of improved nutrition inteventions
IV.  Health Consumers
a) Consumer's preferences, health practices and utilization of
services
b) Tracer studies of coverage, treatment and follow-up of special user
categories, such as, phychiatric patients, fam.ly planning clients,
chronic disease sufferers, or alcoholics
c) Special baseline studies for project health indicators
V.   Health Finance
a) Evaluation of project cost-effectiveness



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Project Cost Estimates and Financing
Table 1           Summary Account by Year
Table 2           Summary Account by Project Component
Table 3           Operating Costs
Table 4           Project Component by Year
Table 5           Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table 6           Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
NATIONAL HEALTH POLICY S'UDIES
Table 7           Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table 8           Estimated Schedule of Disbursements



- 77 -
AM:EYf 4
rable 1
Wm
m. F*U 11151 MKN cw
Nissan k66w6. 66 Yew
(kll1.. '6690
Gm Cos"                    FO*d
oWt CM& W.its  SILO   WU   KW    VIE T70                         I   _.M
1.o01 con
A. TUM   e                                       - Am.6  m.             3.6        -   1,99.6    0.         6.
?tics Ct1inJl                                 -       4.7    21.      79.1       -    114.6    *.         6.
obl 0Ci 3                                 D             7.7     6.6 i12.1           -  1717.2    L.o         0.0
I. TEiN7   AS10T
.2IUL                               6.1    1461 62.3   747.3             -      -    91o.6    o.o        o,
9Fm                                   oO     a 11.    17,6 i                5 *       20.0  169.6    269.2
96611 T016 mIInMI                                      212.3   697.         -      -   0,116.6   164.     2A.6
Fr1in CttMuuI                                 -       1.1    52.2        -       -     54.1   16.I        9.2
66-t.0.  13683    1ra2l2                               214.4 T4f.7          -      -   ,646.1   Ibl       209.2
F7n       _                                   -      50.:   1#.7         -      -    209.2      0.       0.Q
C. PEt        _IT    W                           -      92.6    56.6   26.5  516       2,2    t.0 1       22.2
PhIve. C _m ig                                -      62.1    3.0       A.6    .6      M2I.   1.6        31
Pri  C.tuju,                                  -       7.7    34.2    V.2   16.0    277.2   10.6          7.7
-trw  I3IDU   361202                                   091. 6J .2   671.2  736.n   2,625.3   16.          M.2
FThn. 0,_1                                    -      09.2    62.2      7.5   73.6   m2.         6.6       .6
0._
me                                            -       .       C.4    7.    2.         269,6  Ii        30.6
LWA                                           -            LN.6  1 .   1.23  3.    ,169.    23.6        7.6
961.6.  n3112                                          23 .0 140    3,2.   27.   2,7tt.   24.              V
P9i6, Cutiratb                                -       4.9    06.t   1921.   93.1      V.2  2nJ.          9.s
Wtd-0 d ICLAINI 01111                                  9.9  1,1 16.1    1,607.1  46*.1  46076.2   26.1    99.5
Fo,ui   _,6                                   -    126.2   3M.6   361.7  112.7    m.3    0.o              0,o
E. 69T1L   tUlTlI                               -   1,m7.         -        -       -  I1.7. m    3.  A1,07.4
Pris C.,Atidn                                 -      R7.         -       -       -      17.     5.6       9.2
56-T0gl 0DI11         1                              1,I94.b       -        -       -  1,I.4   A5.6  I,9
F ig    _                                     -  1,69.9          -       -       -   1,696.9    6.6       0.0
F. IT5      WIL                                  -  4,696.l        - A              -  4,06.80   6.6         00
,i6l-      r 1331  30 r1                             4,06.6        -        -       -  4,*6.       6.6      6.6
0. CIVIL io
uIc         s WITS                12-n6     127  3.  .  26,97.6          -       - 2M 322.    1.4  2,6a.2
03wIT7S                        310-4,762      6   1.466,6 1,669.1  6,010.6 1.1160,  27172.6   l7.l  4,619.6
snr663                                        -  .7.9  3,979.4   603.2   132.9  5,IL0           6.6       0.6
rT5                                           -      33.6   209.    3.   7M5.'  1,313.6   16.6    131.2
3,6-7.0.1 CIVIL mM                                   7,271.s60,67.2wm1616.9 2,626.6  60,66.5   12.2  7,3i1.2
Ph"ica,. cmt13n0                             -    L,1s.:  6,027.1  1,22.1  166.3  9,491.3   12.2  1,107.2
clo, tI uis6                                   -     76.2  2,73.9  1,7733.5   W.2  1.13.8   12.6    669.0
S.6-TOW   ra3  CMD 673.6 49,769.2 52,406.3 2,2.1  76,636.3   12.2  9,122.4
Tv.                                           -    56.s3  4,1N9,  21,76.s   n7.1  6,709,6    0.6          o.0
Farr s      _ Eh                              -    90.6 1    3.   2,2.1M    M.9  9,1n.    .4    0.6       0.6
6. 0511915(711
MaC 66.3UNITS                      37-s3    13   1,2a7.0 6,626.6         -           7,262.6   15.0  1,4.6a
r.72U                                         6      4,7  9,636  2,167.9  6466,  16,25.A    55.   i062 
T6ra1N1-                                      -      12.6     0,.    35.    106       106.6   20.        26.6
rA1r15                                        -      25.6    12.6   272.   2.6        m.6    2.          46.9
.bb-Total ENMENTn011MO                               2,00.7 13,673.2 53,414.9 1,23,  246.67A    41.1  10,117.1
Ph.ie1 Cotiramin                              -    100.2   M.7   270.7   41.3  1,216.9   n1.1    203.
Prim6                                                 0.31lu  *  -  1.    P70.6   4s    32.0  2,1J.4   42.4    93.2
,-0.te1l INMAN  CT1Mwn                               2,223,2 17 ,6.9  4,S29.1 1,616.2  20,064.3   41.3  11,52.
T'sa.                                         -    244 ,  2,403.6  1.6   12.1  4,162.2    0.6             1.o
Thei  Ehw6                                    -    692.1 6,900.3  1,412.2  236.1  11,35.9   0o.          2.6
1. W111C0L                            6-1      M6        6,  0I,.6   006.6         -  26406   20,         66,:
966au1 Cm9.66l                                -      66.     4.0    60,          -     122.4   20.0      24.5
P9,6, Caritimem                               -       7.1     4.9   127.         -    166.,   20.6       26.4
-W  013     2T                3                        0       M64.    966.7  39   -   2,7154,     0.6   2=22,
I."                                           -      42.2     6.2    492         -    137.7    0.6       0.6
F.,,1   Ewhaai                                -    172.9   101.3   16.           -    21.6    0.6        0,
Yaw.1 1IITNR CO7                                       1t0,111. 61,064.9 11,779.7 4,113.9 162,31.3   19.9  20642.3
90,6c.l  Ci61eui                                -    ,3. 62.69,2  1,063.7   M.6  16,23.6   01.6  1,6360.2
Prim C        if                                 -    139.4 3,927.4  2.6.0 11.12.2   ,211.4   21.4  1.77MA
7.0L 1r61  CUTNE                                       20,676.2 71,ai.  a3,705.  S.729.4 a22,66      19.6  3l5.6
T."                                              -       3.  6,6667 31,2.6  626.2  10,96           0.6       0.0
Fon16   _iatufte                                 -  31.6 1,=2.8  4,4  1,113.2  232,67.6            0.        2.6
11. WI3501 MM37
Tot1l VAL1NE                                            10, It :611.0 61,O6.9 16,779,7 4,1,91602,261.2   19.9  20,42i.
Phnical Cwt wt.                                   -  1,323.9  69.5  1,062.7  293.6  16,370.6   13.   1,62.2
Prim Crwti.u                                      -    132.4  3,97.4  30,62.5 1,122.2  1,311.4   21.4  L,779.0
Total pUSCI  tsm                                        20,074.3 713.9 23,762.J 5,729.6 121,462.4   191.  7232,7.4
7...,                                             -        a023, 6, 66.7  3,02.4  439.2  10,M.      0.0      0.0
F.:-    t                                         -  1.151.1 1223.5.  6,064.4  1,113.2 21,657.6    0.0       b.0
Ma 24, 1904 0911S



-78 -
SJIO P4LOI     HEAmL ACNEX   4
Strmatcout bt hojntEowcnt                                                             Table   2
Dollar  '000)
IEALTH                  Phosocal
FACILITIES             Crntinoocius
INSTITUTIW                   NETtlORIW -ORK
BEVEL W IT  DEJLGP88   DE1E(0816T   Total          Z   Awoit
1. IiNVESTMENT CSTS
A. STUDIES AND RESEARCH                     1,599.0            -            -    1,599.0  0.0       0.0
Pricet Continrgncies                       114.8            -            -      114,8   0,0      0.0
Sub-Total IICLUDIMS CONTINCIES              1,713.8            -            -    1,713.8  0.0       0.0
8. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
LOCAL                                      910.0            -            -      910.0   0.0      0.0
FOREIGN                                    200.0            -            -      200.0  0.0       0.0
Su-Total TECHIUCAL ASSISTANMC               1,110.0                         -    1,110.0   0.0      0.0
Price Cm,tirercies                          54.1            -            -       54.1   0.0      0.0
Sub-Total IICLLDIN  COT1IEIES               1,164.1            -            -    1.164.1  0.0       0.0
Foreisn Exchas                             209.2            -            -      209.2  0.0       0.0
C. PROJECT WIAMSIIDT LUIT                   2.522.0                              2,522.0   5.0   126.1
Physical Contingencir s                    126.1            -            -      126.1  0.0       0.0
Price Contioaoncies                        277.2            -            -      277.2  4.8    13.2
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINSENCIES           2,925.3            -            -   2,925.3   4.8   139.3
Forein Exchrm                              22m.5            -            -      m.5  4.8    13.9
0. TRAININ6
OVERSEAS                                       -        200.0            -      200.0   0.0      0.0
LOCAL                                          -      3_500,0                 3500.0   0.0       0.0
Su-Total TRAINING                                 -      3.700.0            -    3.700.0  0.0       0.0
Price Continfmcis                              -        376.2            -      376.2  0.0       0.0
Su-Total IKCL.00I0  CONTINGENCIES                 -      4,076.2            -    4,076.2  0.0       0.0
Foreisn Exchao                                 -        991.5            -      991.5  0.0       0.0
E. HCPITAL ACUISITIWN                             -            -      1,977.0    1.977.0  0.0       0.0
Price Continshcui                              -            -         17.3       17.3  0.0       0.0
Su-Total INLUDINS CWIGT16ENCIES                   -            -      1,994.3   1,994.3  0.0        0,0
Fortign Exchria                                             -      1,096.9    1,096.9   0.0      0.0
F. IIARb HA  ITN.                                 -            -      4000,0    4,000.0   0.0       0.0
Sub-Total INCLUOINS CCIITIKEKIES                  -            -      4,000.0   4,000.0  0.0        0.0
G. CIVIL WOBS
BASIC HEALTH UNITS                             -            -     26,302,0  26,302,0  15.0  3,945.3
HOSPITALS                                                   -    27,175.0  27,175.0  15.0  4,076.3
SLWEOVISION                                    -            -      5,818.5   5,818.5  15.0   072.8
NAIHTEWAiE                                     -                   1,313.0   1,313.0  15.0   197.0
Sub-Total CIVIL  ORKS                             -            -     60,608.5  60-608.5  15.0  9,091.3
Physical Continwncies                          -            -      9.091.3   9.091.3  0.0        0.0
Price Contiacies                               -            -      5,110.3   5,130.8  13.0   669.2
Su-Total INCLUDING CONTINIENCIES                  -            -     74030,15  74,830.5  13.0  9,760.5
Toon                                           -            -      6,709.9   6,709.9  13.0   875.2
Foreian Exch                                   -            -      9,157.4    9,157.4  13.0  1,194.4
A. E3UIPIOT/FURNITURE
BASIC NEMLTN UNITS                             -            -      7,245.0   7.245.0  S.0    362.3
HOSPITALS                                      -            -     16,295.0  16,2M5.0  5.0   814.0
TRAINIS                                        -        100.0                   100.0  5.0       5.0
MINTCE                                         -            -        977.0      977.0  5.0    48.9
St-Total EGUIPRENT/FLURITIRE                      -        100.0    24,517.0  24,617,0  5.0  1,230.9
Physical Contioacin                            -          5.0      1.225.P   1,230.9   0.0       0.0
Prime Ctorsiaciu                               -         10.7      2,145.1    2.1546   4.8   102.7
Sub-Total INCLUDIN  COIITINENCES                  -        115.7    27,888.1   28,004.5  4.0  1.333.5
Toes                                           -          5.8      4,136.4   4.142.2  4.8   197.2
Fori,n xchas                                   -         23.1    11,535.8  11,558.9  4.8   550.4
1. VEHICLES                                       -            -      2,448.0    2.448.0  5.0   122.4
Physical Cotinaocoin                           -            -        122.4      122.4  0.0       0.0
Price Continnciun                              -            -        184.5      184,5  4.8       8.8
Sb-Total INCUDIKS CONTINBECIES                    -            -      2,754.9   2.754.9  4.0   131.2
Taxos                                          -            -        137.7      137.7  4.8       6.6
Fortian Exchca                                                       551.0      551.0  4.B    26.2
Total INVESTIE1T COSTS                         5,231.0      3,800.0    93,550.5  102,581.5  10.3 10.570.6
Physical Contioo icos                         126.1          5.0    10,439,5   10,570.6  0.0        0.0
Price Cortino cuis                            446.0        3a6.9      7,478.5   0,311.4  9.6   793.9
Total IlCLUDtI8 CWlTIS(ICIES                   5.803.1      4,191.9   111.468,5  121,463.6  9.4 11,364.5
Toxos                                             -          5.8     10,984.0  IA.m9.8 9.8  1,079.0
Fortin Ex,cha                                 501.7      1,014.7    22,341.1  23,857.4  7.5  1.705.0
Na  24. 194  09121



BRWIL
SAO PALID BASIC HEALTH CARE
Table 3. OPERATING COSTS
Detailed Cost Table
(Dollars '0001
Bre*kdem of Totals Iml, Coot
(1US$ '001
Bootitu                                           Base Costs                            Totals Including Continoieies            -      ------------       --- 
----- -  -      --- ----- ---- -----  --- ---- ----   ---- ---- ---- ----- ---- ---- ----o--al---ELoca .(Exc . tiuies I
unit      84/85 85/86 86/87 87/U8 Total  Unit Cost  84/85   85/86      86/87     87/00    Total      04/85   85/86      86/87     97/88    Total     For, oExc,    Taoes)      Taxes    Total
I. RECLDREN COSTS
A. 8AM1AE1f COSTS
* GENEAL MACKNlO
SALARIES                          Nodule/yaro   12   12   12   12   48           110,60  1,328.2  1.328.2   1,328,2   1,320.2   5,312.6  1,339.8  1,405,5   1.525.2   1.662.5  5,932.9              -      5,32.9         - 5,932.9
NONITURIIE 8 EON. STUDIES           koojl         12   12   12   12   48           22.6   271.2   271.2    271.2    271.2   1,004.8    272.6   287.0           211.4     329.5   1,211.5         60.6      1,150.9        - 1,211.5
8THER                               Olobal                                                  22.8   222.0    406.0    432.0   1,094,0         22.2   246.6      466.2    542.0   1.277,0          63.8      1,213.1        - 1,277.0
Stub-Total 86(801 IDMNiOT                                                                    1,621.4  1,822.4   2,085.4   2,022.4   7,491.4  I.6355  1,929.0   2,202,9   2.543,9   8,421.3         124.4      8,296.9        -  8,421.3
Sut-Total rAWMMIOTf COSTS                                                                       1,621.4  1,832.4   2,005,4   2,032,4   7,491.4  I.635.5  1,939.8  2,02,9   2,542.9   8,421.3          124.4      8,296.9        -   8,421.3
3. EIETIID I SCIENT. DIG.
[10008  I IWO SERVICES                 Yeerly         1    2      5     8    16        22,6    22.6    45,2    112.0    100.8    361.6    22.8    47.8            129.8      226.2     426,7        21,3        405.4        -     426.7
COPTIM  EGUIPNENT                      Testis         1    2      5    8    16        3.01      2.0       6.0      15.1      24.1      48.2      3.0 .    6.4      17.2       20,1      56.8,        2.8         54.0        -      56.8
C8NTININII  EIlE ACTIVITIES            Global                                                      -    113.0     113,0     113.0    339.0         -    119.6     129.8      141.4    390.8         19.5        371.2        -     39088
Sub-Total EtirIATIE I SCIENT. DIGS.                                                                25.6   164.2    241.1    217.9    748.8    25,8    173.8          276,8      397.9     874.3        42,7        8306         -     874,3
C. SALARZES INCREMETAL STAFF
HIS                                    Tearly       4.81 93.1  153   152 402.8         253  1,201.8 23,541.7  38,709.0  38,709.8 102,161.4  1,212.3 24,911.0  44,451.5  48,452.1 119,027.7             -    119,027.7        -119,027.7
HOSPITALS                              Testis         1    2   5.3   7,8  16.1       2.891  2,891,0  5,782.8  15,400,0  22,405.3  46,487.3  2.916,3  6,110.5  17,695.0  28.044.7  54,774.5             -     54,774,5        -54,774.5
Sub-Total SALARIES INt0MMOAL STAFF                                                              4,092.8 29,321.7  54,118,0  61,114.3 148,640.7  4,120.6 31,030.3  62,146,5  76,496.0 173,802.1            -    173,002.1        -173,802.1
D. MATERIALS
1.88
INITIAL DRYpLY                      Toads         13   140     -     -   153         91  1,183.0 12,740.0         -          -  13,922.0  1,193.4 13,481.5         -         -14,674.8    1,467.5         13,287,3        -14,674,8
DIIS/UBM./lEBICAL                   TesrIs       4.8  93.1  153   153 402.8         239  1,135.3 22,239.0  36,567.0  36,567.0  96,508.2  1,145.2 23,533.2  41,991.7  45,771.0 112,441.2   11,244.1    101,197,0           -112,441.2
OTHER WPEATING COSTS                Toadsu       4.8  93,1   153   153 403.8         64    304,0  5,955,2   9,792.0   9,792.0  25,843.2    306,7  6.201.8 11,244.6  12,256.7  30,109.8    1,505.5        28,604.3         -30,109.8
SubTotal BUS                                                                                2,622.3 40,934.2  46.359,0  46,359.0 136,274,4  2,645.2 43,216.5  53,236.4  58,027.7 157,225.7   14,217,1    143,008.7           -157,225.7
2. INISITALS
INITIAL S591Y                       Testis         I     1    4      2     0        243    242.0   243.0    973.0    486.0   1,944.0    245.1    257.1   1,116.2         600.3   29226.8       222.7      2,004.1         - 2,226.8
IMME  1 1(13CAL SI8MPIES            Tesris         1    2   5.3   7.8  16.1         399    399.0   790.0   2,126.7   2,092,3   6,415.9    402.5   844.4   2,442.2   3,870.6   7,559.7          756.0       6,801.7        - 7aS59.7
OTHER WERATING COSTS                lorIsu         1     2   5.3   7.8  16.1        294    294.0   508.0   1.567,0   2,278.5   4,727.5    296,6    622.2   1,799.5   2,852.0   5,570.3         278.5       5,291.8        - 5,570.3
Stb-Total HOSPITALS                                                                           936.0  1,629.0   4,665.7   5,056.8  13,007.4    944.2  1,723.8   1,57.8   7,320.9  15,356.8    1,257.2         14,099.6        -  15,356.8
Ittb-Total MATERIALS                                                                           3,5B8.3 42,563.2  51,024.7  52,215.8 149,361.8  3,589.4 45,040.3  50,594,2  65,250.6 172.502.5   15,474.2    157,100.3           - 172.582.5
E. MAINTENW C
OEOIMLES MAINMIECNE I OPER.            Tearis        21   168   252   252  693        4,79    100.6   004.7   1,207.1   1,287.1   2,319.5    101.5   851.6   1,386.2   1,510.9   1,850.1    1,155.0           2,695.1        -   3,850.
OTHER MAINTENNIC  COSTS                Tearlch-                   -                            120.0   952.8   1,552.0   1,732.0   4,394.0    139.2  1,007.4   1,782.2   2,193.0   5,121.8        256.1       4,861.7        -   5.121,8          M   x4
Stb-Total MAINTENANCE                                                                             238.6  1,756.7   2,759.1   2,959.1   7,713.5    240.7  4,859,0   3,168.4   3,783.9   8,971.9    1,411.0        7,560.8        -   8,971.9          wj  4_
Total RECLERENT COSTS                                                     9,536.6~~~~~-- -- -----  ---60.110 -48.  118,639.3 3-3--64,2  9-620.0 --,042,4 126,488.0 140-501.1 364-652.2   17-053.5 ---7------  ----- 364-6-2.2
Total RCRE    CTS9,536.6 75,640.1 110,148.2 118,639,3 312,964,2  9,620.0 80,042.4 126,488.8 148,501.1 364,652.2   17,053.5    347,598,7                                                                                            - 34.652.2
Moo 24, 1984 09129



- 80-
ANNEX 4
Table 4
BRAZIL
SAo PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Project Components by Year
(Dollars '000)
Base Costs                       Total
84/85    85/86    86/87    87/88    Dollars  (US$ '000)
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                    1J587.5  1,990.5  1,093.0   560.0    5,231.0    5Y231.0
B. MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT                           570.0  1,520.0  1,330.0   380.0    3,800.0    3,800.0
C. HEALTH FACILITIES NETWORK DEVELOPMENT    16,453.5 57,496.4 16i356.7 3.243.9   93,550.5   93f550.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                             1B,611.0 61.006.9 18,779.7 4,183.9  102,581.5  102,581.5
Physical Contingencies                         1,323.9  6o989,5  1,863.7   393.6   10,570.6   10570.6
Price Contingencies                              139.4  3Y957.4  3,062.5 1,152.2    8,311.4    8,311.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                              20,074.3 71,953.9 230705.8 5,729.6  121,463.6  121,463.6
Taxes                                            855.3  6,666.7  3.028.6   439.2   10,989.8   10y989.8
Foreign Exchange                              3,151.6 13,525.8  6,064.8 1,115.2   23,857.4   23F857.4
Mav 24, 1984 09:20
BRAZIL
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Project Components bv Year
(Dollars '000)
Totals Including Contingencies             Total
84/85    85/86    86/87    87/88    Dollars  (US$ '000)
A. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                    1Y643.9  2,136.0  1,287.3   736.0    5,803.1    5r803.1
B. MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT                           575.7  1,610.6  1529.3   476.3    4,191.9    4,191.9
C. HEALTH FACILITIES NETWORK DEVELOPMENT    17,854.6 68,207.3 20g889.2 4,517.3  111,468.5  111,468.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                              20,074.3 71,953.9 23,705.8 5,729.6  121,463.6  121,463.6
Mav 24, 1984 09:21



- 81 -
BRAZIL                   ANNEX 4
Table 5
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Project Costs       Loan Amount   Disbursement
(Net of taxes)    (US$ million)   Percentage
Category          (US$ millions)*
(1) Civil Works               58.7            22.0             41%
(2) Goods                     25.2            13.2         100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
under international
competitive bidding
and 41% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally.
(3) Consultant services        8.2            5.0             100%
other than under
Category (6)
(4) Works and goods            3.6            2.0              41%
reserved for MSP
(5) Training and fellow-       4.2            1.6          100% of foreign
ships                                                 expenditures and 41%
of local
expenditures
(6) Project-related Studies  1.7              1.5             100%
(7) Salaries of, and           2.9            1.0              41%
furniture, materials
and supplies for PMU
(8) Initial deposit in         -              5.0               -
Special Account
(9) Front-end Fee             -               0.1
(10) Unallocated                              4.1
TOTAL                  104.5           55.5
*/ Project cost does not include neither the purchase of Nardini Hospital
(US$2.0 million) nor the financing related to the Itaquera Hospital
(US$4.0 million).



- 82 -
ANNEX 4
Table 6
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
Accumulated          Undisbursed
Fiscal Year/        Disbursements       Disbursements          Balance
Semester Ending    Amount       %       Amount      %        Amount    %
1985
12/31/84              3.1      6          3.1      6           52.2    94
6/30/85              3.5      6          6.6    12           48.7    88
1986
12/31/85              7.4    13          14.0    25            41.3    75
6/30/86              7.9    14          21.9    39           33.4    61
1987
12/31/86              8.4    15          30.0    54            25.0    46
6/30/87              8.1    15          38.4    69            16.9    31
1988
12/31/87              7.5    14          45.9    83             9.4    17
6/30/88              4.9      9         50.8    92             4.5     8
1989
12/31/88              3.5      6         54.3    98             1.2     2
6/30/89              1.2      2         55.5   100             0.0     0
Closing Date:  December 31, 1989



- 83 -
ANNEX 4
Table 7
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
NATIONAL HEALTH POLICY STUDIES
Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Project Costs       Loan Amount   Disbursement
(Net of taxes)    (US$ dollars)   Percentage
Category          (US$ dollars)
(1) Consultants           1,995.00           1,600.000        100%
(2) Initial deposit           -                300.000
in Special Account
(3) Unallocated (including   -                 100.000
Front-end fee)
TOTAL                                    2,000.000



- 84 -
ANNEX 4
Table 8
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
NATIONAL HEALTH POLICY STUDIES
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ mission)
1985
12/31/84               0.1     5          0.1      5            1.9    95
6/30/85              0.3    15           0.4      20           1.6    80
1986
12/31/85               0.4     20         0.8      40            1.2    60
6/30/86              0.4      20         1.2      60           0.8    40
1987
12/31/86               0.4     20         1.6      80           0.4    20
6/30/87              0.3      15         1.9      95           0.1      5
1988
12/31/87               0.1      5         2.0    100            0.0      -
Closing Date: June 30, 1988



- 85 -
ANNEX 5
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Project Implementation Data
Table 1                         Implementation Schedule
Table 2                         Staffing Plan
Table 3                         Training Plan



BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
PY 1                     PY 2                      PY 3PY 4 
Activity                          1984                     1985                     1986                     1987                    1988
1  1  1 2  1 3  1 4  1  1  1 2  1 3  1 4  1  1  1 2  ! 3 1    4 11!                2  1 3  1 4 1 1   1 2  1 3  14
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Acquisition                    Land                                     xxxxxxxxxxxx Nardini Hospital                          xxxxxxxxxxxx
Civil Works
UBS under Construction (9)    xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
UBS Renewed (28)                               xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
UBS to be Constructed (90)
Groups of 15: Group 1                         xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Group 2                          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Group 3                              xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Group 4                                 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Group 5                                   xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Group 6                                      xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Hospitals: Construction
Hospital I                       xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Hospital 2                             xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Hospital 3                                    xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Hospital 4                                          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Hospital 5                                                xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Hospital: Expansion (Cotia)                     xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Hospital: Renovation (2)                                                                                                                                                   CD
Nardini                        xxxxxx                                                                                                                     5^
Juqueri                               xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Equipments/Furniture
UBS (New, Renewed, Existing)                   xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Hospitals (5)                                        xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Hospital: Exp(l) Cotia                                    xxxxxxxxxxxx
Hospital: Renovation (2)
Nardini                            xxxxxx
Juqueri                                  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Vehicles                                                 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Information Systems (5)                         xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxkxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Training                                        xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Project-Related Studies                               xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Technical Assistance                                                
Management                                     xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxX                                                                                        F4 cn
Architecture                                         xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
NATIONAL HEALTH POLICY STUDIES                  xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx



BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Staffing Plan
Area           Freguesia        Itaquera-
do 0           Guaianazes          Cotia       Caieiras           Maua              Total
P    F    I a /P        F      I   P    F    I  P    F    I    P    F    I         P      F       I
Basic Health Units
Physicians b/  40   282  242    41    108    67  13   32  19  13   88   75   25  146  121   132    656   524
Nurses           5    68   63      5      28    23   2   10   8   1   16   15    2   42   40    15    164   149
Other Skilled 469   708  239   158    314   156  32   95  63  51  259  208   82  428  346   792  1,804 1,012
Unskilled       77    87   10    51       40   -11   3   11   8   3   31   28   14   52   38   148    221    73
Total      591 1,145  554   255    490   235  50  148  98  68  394  326  123  668  545 1,087  2,845 1,758
Hospitals c/
Physicians b/              333   139    361   222  28   83  55                83             123   167    983   816        X
Nurses                     201    84    218   134  17   50  33                50              74   101    593   492
Other Profess.              72    30      78    48   6   18  12               18              27    36    213   177
Other Skilled            1,554   648  1,684 1,036 130  388 258               388             575   778  4,589 3,811
Unskilled                  612   255    663   408  51  153 102               153             226   306  1,807 1,501
Total               2,772 1,156e 3,004 1,848 232e 692 460               692            1,025 1,388  8,185 6,797
Total Project c/
Physicians b/                                                                                       299  1,639 1,340
Nurses                                                                                              116    757   641
Other Profess.                                                                                       36    213   177
Other Skilled                                                                                     1,570  6,393 4,823
Unskilled                                                                                           454  2,028 1,574
Total                                                                                        2,475 11,030 8,555
a/ P = Present; F   Future; I = Increment.   c/ Public Sector only plus Cotia where private hospital is
b/ Includes Dentists.                               to be expanded under the project.
tS .n



BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAG PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Training Plan
Course             No.                 Participants                Total           Institution *              Duration
Courses          Type                No.                                                      (Weeks)
I. External Courses
1.  Hosp. Admin.           4      Pub. Health MDs.             40           160                 HRC                        8
Hosp. Admins.
2.  Refresh. Courses       6      Clinical Doctors             20           120           Medical School                   6
3.  Refresh. Courses       6      Other Professionals          20           120                 HRC                        1
4.  Home Care
(Visitador Domic.)  19       Nurse Auxiliaries            15           285            Modules + HRC                   8              X
5.  Basic Sanitation       6      New Candidates               15            90                 USP                        8
6.  Sup. In Sanita.        2      Sanitary Agents              10            20                 USP                        8
7.  Admin. (Chiefs)        2      Administrators               50           100           FGV /FUNDAP                     13
8.  Admin. (Directs.)    2        Directors, Mgrs.             20            40           FCV /FUNDAP                     13
9.  Train./Super.          5      UBS train teams               5            25           HRC/Cotia/NSO                    8
Techniques
10. Hosp. Admin            2      H. Services Chief            25            50           HRC/USP                         13
11. Hosp. Nursing
Admin.                2     H. Nurse Chiefs              26             52           HRC/USP                        13
12. Organ. and Func.
of Laundries           2     H. Laundry Chiefs            13             26           FGV/USP                         4
13. Preventive Main-
tenance                2     H. Maint. Chiefs             13            26            FGV/USP                         4
14. Materials Supply       2      H. Mater. Chiefs             13            26           FGV/USP                          4
15. Clinical records
and Statistics         2     Statis. Clerk                13             26           FGV/USP                         4
16. Hospital Costs         1      Module Admins.               20            20           FGV/USP                          4
17. Performance Eval.    2        Services Chiefs              30            60           FGV/USP                          4
Subtotal          67                                              1,246                                                    X   E"
a 
t-.    .XL



BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Training Plan
Course             No.               Participants                 Total          Institution *              Duration
Courses          Type               No.                                                     (Weeks)
II. In-House Courses
18. Interinstitutional   1        INAMPS/SES/SHS              30            30              HRC                       0.4
Metro. Semlnar
19. Area/Region            5      Region. Coord. &            20           100              HRC                          I
Workshop                      Technical Teams
20. Module Workshop       13      Module Tech. Teams          25           325           COORD. MOD                      1
21. Local Train. of       78      Module Profs.                5           380           UBS/Training                    I
Professionals
22. Local Train. of       78      Module Auxs.                10           780           UBS/Training                    3
Auxiliaries
23. In-Service Train       0      Technicians & Aux.           1             -           UBS HOSP.                    0.6
24. Tech./Func. Eval.   10        Area Coords. &
for Area/Region               Tech. teams                25           250           AREA/REG.                     0.6
25. Tech./Func. Eval.   26        Module Directors &          20           520           COORD. MOD.                   0.4
for H. Modules                Tech. Teams
26. Hosp. Attendts.       30      Admitted Candidates         20           600               HRC                        13
Courses
27. Nurse Auxs.            5      Nurse Auxiliaries           20           100               HRC                         4
Courses
28. Auxils. Training              Service Auxs.
- Laundry             13                                 10            130           DIR. HOSP.                     13
- Materials           13          "                       20           260           DIR. HOSP.                     13
- Architecture       13                                  20           260           DIR. HOSP.                     13
- Nutrt./Dietet.    13                                   30            260           DIR. HOSP.                     13
- Hosp. Pharm.        13         -                       10           390            DIR. HOSP.                     13
- Soc. Services       13                                  30           130           DIR. HOSP.                     13
- Preven. Maint.    13                                   10            390           DIR.  OSP.                    13
29. Admin. Train.         26      Secretaries/Hosp.           30           130           ADMIN. HOSP.                    4
registrars
30. Hoop. Infec. Ctrl.  13        Doe.s. Nurses,              20           260           DIR. HOSP.                      4
Administrators                                                                                                 H  
31. Joint Rooming         13      Does., Nurses,              20           260           DIR. HOSP                       4                       w
Administrators
32. Nursing, Pgming.,   39        Module Nurses               20           780           ENF. HOSP.                      4
Procds., Services
Subtotal      428                                             6,205



BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Training Plan
Course             No.                Participants                 Total          Institution *               Duration
Courses          Type               No.                                                      (Weeks)
III.Contin. Education
33. Quality of Med.
Care                78         Clinicians                15          1170           COORD. MODULE                 0.2
34. Qual. of Health
Care                78         Other Profess.            15          1170           COORD. MODULE                 0.2
35. Multi-disciplinary
Meetings            26         Module Teams              50          1300           COORD. MODULE                 0.2
36. Technical Work-
shops                5         Area/Reg. Teams           10            50           COORD. MODULE                    1
37. Refresher Courses   60           UBS Professionals         5            300           COORD. MODULE                 0.4
38. Refreslher Courses  120          UBS Auxiliaries           5           600            COORD. MODULE                 0.6
39. Refresher Courses   26           Health Visitors          10           260            COORD. MODULE                   4
40. Training Evalua-
tion                 5         HRC & Teach. Teams        20           100           COORD. HODULE                 0.6
Subtotal       398                                             4,950
IV. Local Scholarships
41. Health Visitors
Courses (352 hrs)  19          Health Visitors           15           285                                           9
42. Sanitation Agents
Courses (352 hrs)   6          Sanitation Agents         15            90                                           9
43. Sanitation Super-
vision Courses        2        Sanitation                10            20                                           9
Specialists
44. Area Workshops         5                                  20            100                                           1
45. Module Workshop       13                                  25            325                                           1
46. Profess. Training   78                                     5            390                                         0.5
47. Auxiliaries Train-
ing                 78                                   10           780                                           3
48. Hospital Attend.                                                                                                                    m
Course              30          Hospital Attend.         20           600                                           9       m
Subtotal         231                                              2,590



BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Training Plan
Course            No.                Participants               Total          Institution                Duration
Courses         Type                 No.                                                  (Months)
V. Overseas Training
49. The Health Care
System a             1                                  2             2          Minneapolis, USA               12
50. Evaluation &          1                                  2             2          London, England                 6
Planning                                                                     London School of Hygiene
51. Human Resources
Development          1                                  2             2      The John Hopkins Univ., USA         6
52. Health Education      1                                  2             2          Paris, France                   6
53. Health Administra-
tion                 1                                  3             3           USA/England                    I
Subtotal         5                                              11
Total Training
Program          1,129                                          15,002
* Institutions: HIRC - Human Resources Center
USP - University of Sao Paulo (Faculty of Public Health)
FGV - Getulio Vargas Foundation
FUNDAP - Foundation for Development Administration
~-
1&1
n



- 92 -
ANNEX 6
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Key Indicators and Project Impact
Table 1          Key Indicators:  Health Impact
Table 2          Cotia Population, Health Services and
Health Service Cost (1980)
Table 3          Projected Health Care Costs in Metropolitan
Sao Paulo
Table 4          Project Investments Costs and Health Service Delivery
Savings 1984-99



BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Key Inrdicators: Health I-pact-Mortality
(Provislonal estimates to be reviewed after one year of project Implementation)
Moat Recent Eatimate   Eatimated        Percent
Unit                         Year   Rate          Rate 1988   Reduction
I.  NON-SPECIFIC MORTALITY INDICATORS
(Sao Paulo Periphery)
1.  Infant death rate                          per 1,000 live births                       1980       63             44          30
2.  Childhood (1-4 years) death rate           per 1,000 pop. in age group                 1980        2.5            2          20
3.  Maternal Death Rate                        per 1,000 live birtha                       1977        1.8            1.2        35
11. CAIISE-SPECIFIC MORTALITY INDICATORS
(Sao Paulo Periphery)
1.  In less than one year old
(a)  Enteritis and other diarrhea          per 100,000 live births                     1980   1,266            825           35
(b)  Pneumonia and influenza               per 100,000 live births                     1980   1,179            825           30
(c)  Measles                               per 100,000 live birtha                     1980      145             73          50
2.  In total Population                                                                                                                                  OQ t|
(a)  Enteritia and diarrhea                per 100,000 population                      1980       39             27          30                      H H  C
(b)  Pneumonia and influenza               per 100,000 population                      1980       61             46          25                      0
(c)  Birth injury, distocic delivery
and other perinatal anoxic
or hypoxic Injuries                per 100,000 population                      1980       41             27          35
(d)  All accidents                         per 100,000 population                      1980       3/             28          25
* Assuming at least three year. of continuous service delivery



BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Key Indicators: Health Impact-Morbidity and Other
(Provisional Estimates to be Reviewed After One Year of Project Implementation)
Most Recent Estimate    Estimated Rate         X
Unit                   Year        Rate             1988       Improvement
I.   CAUSE-SPECIFIC MORBIDITY
(Sao Paulo Periphery)
1.  Low birth weight               Z live births              1982           12             8            33
2.  Breastfeeding                  X live births               1979          29            45            35
3.  Malnutrition prevalence        % of children
(all degrees)                  under 5 years              1982          25            20             20
4.  Diarrhea severity            per 1000 hosp. disch.        1982           40            20            50
5.  Acute respiratory            per 1000 hosp. disch.         1982         91             55            39
infection severity
6.  Measles incidence            per 100,000 population        1982          13             6            54
7.  Polio incidence              per 100,000 population        1982          0.26           0.1          60
8.  Tuberculosis incidence       per 100,000 population        1980          20            15            25
II. DISABILITY INDICATORS
1.  School children                days/child/year             1982          10e            8            20
2.  Working age group - men        days/person/year            1982          17e           15            12
- women                                1982          20e           18            10
III. OUTCOME INDICATORS
1.  Immunization                % fully immunized              1982          30            65            54
children (0-5 yrs)           18            4
2.  Prenatal Care               X pregnant women               1982         45             80            44
3.  Childbirth                  x supervised deliveries       1982          90             99             9          X
4.  Family Planning             % couples using                1978          57            67            15
contraception                                                                      0
5.  Control of Hypertension   % cases                          1982          30            60            50
e - Staff Estimate



- 95 -
ANNEX 6
Table 2
BRAZIL                          Page 3 of 6
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE
Cotia Population, Health Services and Health Service Cost, 1980
1.     Municipio of Cotia population, 1980                            62,952
2.     Ambulatory visits, 1980                                       102,327
Consultations                               83,364
Child health program visits                 14,059
Maternal health program visits               4,904
3.     Ambulatory Service Rate, line 2/line 1                               1.62
4.     Hospital release, 1980                                          4,393
General medicine                                338
Surgery                                         623
Pediatrics                                      847
Obstetrics                                   2,585
5.     Hospitalization rate, line 4/line 1                                  0.7
6.     Operational Expenditures, 1980, Cr$ 000                    Cr$ 38,264
7.     Exchange rate, 1980, US$                                            52.7
8.     Operational Expenditures, 1980, US$                        US$726,072
(a) Ambulatory care, estimated cost         US$348,515
(b) Hospital care, estimated cost           US$377,577
9.     Average cost per ambulatory visit,
line 8(a)/line 2                                                 US$3.41
10.    Average cost per hospital release,
line 8(b)/line 4                                                 US$85.95
Sources: Sao Paulo project document file, 3, Cotia; Cotia project annual
reports to Kellogg Foundation.



- 96 -
ANNEX 6
BRAZIL                    Page 4 of 6
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTE CARE
Project Impact
1.        Table 1 shows Key Indicators related to project implementation
targets and impact on health status in the project areas.
2.        Table 2 gives information on the Cotia Project.  The success of
the Cotia project in reducing infant mortality and otherwise achieving
health-status improvements was described in para. 2.40 of the main report.
This success was achieved with modest expenditures. For example,
distributing the total Cotia health-care expenditures between ambulatory
visits and hospitalizations on the same basis as the INAMPS Sao Paulo state
data, yields estimates of costs per ambulatory visit of US$3.41 and costs
per hospitalization of US$85.95 (Working Paper No. C-28). Costs are lower
than for the state as a whole because more expensive tertiary level care is
referred outside the Cotia system, resources are much more efficiently
utilized, and facilities were specifically developed to address the basic
health care needs of the population.
3.        These efficiencies were achieved with service levels well within
the CONASP target levels. In 1980, coefficients of 1.62 ambulatory visits
and 0.07 hospitalizations prevailed. Because the Cotia project referred
some patients for tertiary-level care outside that system, the total
service levels were probably somewhat higher. Nonetheless, these cost and
service level data demonstrate the feasibility of offering comparable
service systems in other areas.  Moreover, the Cotia system maintained an
in-service training program along with its health services to the community
within the cost parameters indicated.
4.        As indicated in para. 6.06 of the maLn report, it would be
feasible, with the help of this project, to immnediately reduce per capita
health care costs in GSP by 6%. Future gains would be even greater, as
shown below. Possible constraints to achieving lower costs include the
fact that the GSP population is growing by abouit 4% annually, that the
service parameters for hospitalizations may havre to be exceeded because of
Sao Paulo's level of development and hence prevalence of chronic diseases,
and that it could take some time -- several years at least -- to inculcate
the new attitudes necessary to substitute primary for hospital-based care.
With these factors in mind, numbers of health visits, hospitalizations and
health expenditures by the INAMPS system in Greater Sao Paulo were
projected through 1990, assuming no system change and linear extrapolations
of the 1976-81 growth patterns. Since real prices of medical services may
increase, the resulting estimates of total health expenditures in GSP
represent a lower bound of health costs without changing the new health
system. These data show costs growing 7-8% annually or 65% in eight years.



- 97 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 6
5.        With the gradual expansion of the lessons of the Sao Paulo
project, and the consistent application of the CONASP recommendations in
the whole of GSP, the goals of 2.5 ambulatory visits per person per annum,
and 0.1 hospitalizations per person per annum could be reached by 1985.
The costs of these units of service are then assumed, as with the
alternative projection, to be the same as prevailed in 1980.
6.        Comparing health costs with and without the new system in metro-
politan Sao Paulo, 1984 to 2000, demonstrates the substantial savings to be
realized by the combination of the Sao Paulo project and CONASP health
policies for GSP (Table 3). The savings that could be achieved, when
compared to projected expenditures without the policy reforms proposed by
CONASP, rise from about 10% of aggregate health costs in 1983 to about 20%
of prospective health costs in 1990. These amounts are arguably a
conservative estimate of the likely savings, since prospective costs
without these policies would probably be higher than those shown, and the
possible cost reductions to be achieved by the Sao Paulo project could be
larger than those shown. It should be stressed that implementation of the
CONASP recommendations without the institutional and manpower development
and physical construction elements of the project would not be feasible,
except in those parts of GSP where institutions and facilities are already
adequate (primarily the core area of MSP and some of the more developed
peri-urban municipalities).



- 98 -
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT                ANNEX 6
SAO PAULO BASIC HEALTH CARE             Page 6 of 6
Table 3: PROJECTED HEALTH-CARE COSTS IN METROPOLITAN SAO PAULO
(1980 US$ million)
Projected Costs Without CONASP   Projected Costs With CONASP    Net
Year    Goals and Sao Paulo Project    Goals and Sao Paulo Project   Saving
1983             455.2                            455.2
1984             482.2                            436.3                     45.9
1985             509.2                            423.8                     85.4
1986             536.2                            440.2                     96.0
1987             563.1                            457.0                    106.1
1988             590.2                            474.1                    116.1
1989             617.1                            498.8                    118.3
1990             644.1                            516.7                    127.4
Source: Working Paper No. C-28.
Table 4:   PROJECT INVESTMENT COSTS AND HEALTH-SERVICE DELIVERY
SAVINGS 1984-99
(1984 US$ million)
Year         Investment Costs           Savings a/   Net (Costs) or Savings
(1)                    (2)                      (3)
1984/85           20                      9.2                  (11.8)
1985/86           72                     17.1                  (54.9)
1986/87           24                      19.2                  (4.8)
1987/88            9                     21.2                  +12.2
1988/89            -                     23.2                  +23.2
1989/90                                  23.7                  +23.7
1990/99                                 254.8                 +254.8
a/ Equal to 0.2 x net saving in Table 3 because project covers 20% of GSP
population.
NPV 5 $62 million
i= 11%



- 99 -
ANNEX 7
BRAZIL
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA
AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE



- lOQ -
ANNEX 7
BRAZIL                   Page 1
SECOND HEALTH PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Section A: General Reports on Brazil and the Health Sector
A-1 World Bank, "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report", 5 vols.,
Report No. 2604-BR, July 13, 1979
A-2 Peter T. Knight and Ricardo Moran, "Brazil: Poverty and Basic
Needs Series", World Bank, December 1981
A-3 World Bank, "Appraisal Report of a ]?roposed Nutrition Research
and Development Project in Brazil", Report No. 1096-BR, June 7,
1976
A-4 World Bank, "Brazil - Northwest Region Integrated Development
Program: First Phase - Health Project", Staff Appraisal Report
No. 3537b-BR, November 9, 1981
A-5 World Bank, "World Development Report: 1982", Oxford University
Press, New York, 1982
A-6  W. McGreevey, "Brazilian Health Care Financing and Health Policy,
an International Perspective", (draft), World Bank, August 26,
1982
A-7 Thomas W. Merrick, "Recent Fertility, Declines in Brazil, Colombia
and Mexico", Background Paper prepared for the World Development
Report 1984, Washington, September 8, 1983 (mimeo).
Section B: General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B-1  SES/SHS/INAMPS, Special Commission, "Projeto de Expansao da Rede
de Servigos Basicos da Saude do Grande Sao Paulo: la. Versao
SintEtica," (Project for the Expansion of the Network of Basic
Health Services in Greater Sao Paulo: 1st. Summary Version),
January 1983.
B-2 MPAS/CONASP, Reorientagao da Assistencia a Saude no Ambito da
Previdencia Social, (Reorientation of the Health Services under
the Social Security System), 1982
B-3  A. Jatene, E. K. Yamamoto, E. Rosemberg, J. da Silva Guedes, L.
Barradas Barata, Assistencia a Saude na Regiao Metropolitana de
Sao Paulo-Brasil, (Health Services in the Metropolitan Area of
Sao Paulo-Brazil), Regional Meeting WHO/PAHO, Washington D.C.,
1981
B-4 Ministry of Education and Culture, Sao Paulo School of Medicine,
"Influence of Feeding Practices in the Nutritional Status of
Infants and Pre-School Children", 1980



- 101 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
B-5 MPAS/INAMPS, Estrategia de Implementacao do "Plano de
Reorientacao da Assistencia a Saude no Ambito da Previdencia
Social", (Strategy for the Implementation of the "Reorientation
Plan for Health Services Provided by the Social Security"),
December 1982
B-6 IBGE, Annuario Estatistico do Brasil, (Statistical Yearbook for
Brazil), 1981
B-7 EMPLASA, Sumario Estatistico da Grande Sao Paulo, (Summary of
Data on Great Sao Paulo), 1981
B-8 SEADE, Anuario Estatistico do Estado de Sao Paulo, (Statistical
Yearbook on Sao Paulo State), 1980
B-9  Janowitz, Barbara, John E. Anderson, Leo Morris, Milton S.
Nakamura and Joaquin Barreto Fonseca, "Service Availability and
the Unmet Need for Contraceptive and Sterilization Services in
Sao Paulo State, Brazil", International Family Planning
Perspectives, Vol. 6, No. 1, March 1980, pp. 10-19.
B-10  SES/SHS/INAMPS/PMU:  Programa Metropolitano de Saude la Fase. Doc.
Tecnico, Vol. 1, March 1984.
Section C: Selected Working Papers
c-I 0. Echeverri, "Human Resources in the Brazil Urban Health Sector
with Special Reference to Sao Paulo", December 4, 1981
C-2 0. Echeverri, "Working Paper on Health Services", August 5, 1982
C-3 0. Echeverri, 'Staffing and Training Working Paper," August 18,
1982
C-4 0. Echeverri,"Health Services Components", January 25, 1983
C-5 0. Echeverri, "Manpower, Staffing and Training", February 1, 1983
C-6 W. de Geyndt, "Management of Health Care Programs", December 1981
C-7 W. de Geyndt, "Working Paper on Evaluation", July 29, 1982
C-8 W. de Geyndt, "Planning and Design of Facilities", August 1982
C-9 W. de Geyndt, "Working Notes", December 1982
C-10 H. Barnum, "Urban Health Sub-Sector Issues Paper, Costs and
Financing Issues", 1981
C-11 0. Quintana, "Survey of Health Accounting System", June 1982
C-12  0. Quintana, "Working Paper on Accounting System", August 1982
C-13  0. Quintana, "Cost Accounting", December 1982



- 102 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3
C-14 0. Quintana, "Working Paper on Cost Analysis for Hospitals",
December 17, 1982
C-15  M. Valdivia, "Staff Working Paper on Training", August 1982
C-16  M. Valdivia, "Working Paper oa Family Planning", September 1982
C-17  M. Valdivia, "Staff Working Paper on Com.inity Participation",
August 30, 1982
C-18  M. Valdivia, "Staff Working Paper orn Nutrition", August 25, 1982
C-19  M. Valdivia, "Staff Working Paper oa Health Education and
Promotion", August 25, 1982
C-20 B. Hubert, "Working Paper on Physical Planning, Design and
Procurement", July 23, 1982
C-21 B. Hubert, "Findings on Facility Planning", January 18, 1983
C-22 B. Hubert, "Recommendations for the Design of Project
Facilities", January 5, 1983
C-23 P. Whitford, " Proposed Outline of Staffing and Training Needs",
June 22, 1982
C-24 P. Whitford, "Project Preparation Team", July 23, 1982
C-25 P. Whitford, "Project Preparation Report: Proposed Format",
August 2, 1982
C-26 P. Whitford, "Cost Estimates", August 5, 1982
C-27 P. Whitford, "Project Organization", October 7, 1982
C-28  W. McGreevey, "Economic Justification", January 25, 1983
C-29  A. de Debuchy, "Facilities Planning", March 9, 1984.



IBRD 17283R
l;   fl)\ATZAT<BRAZIL                                                                          t                                                      MAY 198
SOJT H AMERIC A                                  SAO   PAULO  HEALTH  PROJECT                       (                                                 MINAS
3P E Z!L                                                                                                                     -4           \-,GERAIS
-  'Project Locations Within The Greater Sdo Paulo Area                                s
,_ B> , FRANCO DA  ' L: .RIPRA~  g          Greater                                                     SAT  PA IU L O
Y   STEC            .AAMR .                                                         r-sIsRS  B                   /- ),<> -
' - '0,'A'  ,''S:':'i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-
K** IARATA :,                       Y            ,  ~
/N EMEU                                                                         $ PARELAY'POs  U.    ) t\  A   '-5 ,2'  ' J  eARA
< / g ' l H-                      JY(L          !..      \     
,,S~~~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~   T  A  S nA  3 rr 54         L              I>(  'A (/V r/iC; - Rv30
~~~~~~~~~~~~CAJAMAR    _yCAlR,,,:j>/tlLmS 46'rafe E ouoAe
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                  s 2,/--   Inrernational Rounfdor,es 
RO ILOJEALP 
'~~~~~~~~~~~~4Y                                             .                 0Y'.'0. f. ..#.. ,,8A   S   .........A S    l SE
47  oO   ,.                            40 1~~~~~~~UA UL CSA    c



I



f  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6'25                                                                             -          4     Ai NT
BRAZILA                                                                       s>      U
SAD P  AULO HEALTH PROJECT                                                                         SOUTH AMERICA -
MAUA I
S    STATE OFr
- crE5'     so   PAULO   M#AIJL   PiPA   iTsU                                                                                            C FAQLO
5-v/,_=->) '; pEC-/XA.- I 
/ _GLC ;,L  W;GF ,/EBE C,   7_ Pi                                                    --\
\~ ~ ~~~~A PA:;1 i50 1', .    ,.;   .             ,-:                                                                                             23~4,'
.-23'40'   \   VsEr - Sf  = g1;CiwtFEl3j= b/(  
=S:   's         -.             m :,                   F      O,=           '.  fEi-'S,'-;                 I /.            \
S '                                                   - MECDSI' 5        ; .0    t2;               
<o 9 9 ~~~'  '                 FREC' -*'; '; - ' >                                        r   '>        ; -4  / -
-5~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
A  BAA   -u 5
~~~~' '.     IANO9 FAR~  0  - 4                        A                 .                     J       5
s   cN                                                                       w :  . =3 IN                      '' ' ' NOA/  F
'A N,   ' D R E'                                                                         -,
ANDRE         7           .                -~~d EROED   \-t f          o '>                                          N r  =-
-           -                                                              ORNTRO 2
'$--\              MNA          -\             /4                                                       t
MERCEDEI Si
35                           3                                                                                                              5i fEXISTING FACILITIES
FJ                                          N:                           :7A,;=  -V | N04Iu 0- i
G,fARtJ  R D 0 
2)            -
-NN
(~~    ~~~ .                                                                         RIO ORANDE .S SERR         /---    odl  onoe
N                                                    P~~~~~R A
MINAS    .5 B
3/  &} 4        OR                                                         42RAIS    >-N55-s  r'  -  I
/             M         U       -c GREATERPROPOSED  FACILlIiES
>EN=-NNC PAL OAR A
PARANA    
EXISTING FACILITIES
L  /                                                                       4.,   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hospital to be Purchased for Pruiect
Jo                                                ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A Basic Healti. Units
ENEATEERK                                                                                      Main, Roads wljh Bss Traffic Raises
SAC FAA C
AR EA                N                  i         2         3         4                        Buiit-up Areas
E,LOMEIEES                                   -CuAglaSTePado ROAEd-E es
5~0, PAuL0                                                                                                          Modue Bu,d,,-
d                                                                       .......... ~~~~~~~~~~~~San Paula Munacpal Bouclndry
State B3-ulndies
-    ,  temnationai BuAndoFies
A/l/ A  .370  ~~2C5AM         N 51. N5 NI-'5N~  7-  1 -   N.N1 ~  4E' 25'






IBRD 17285R
410 .55                                                                 45 00                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAY 1984
P|% PRCECT ARF,\ ,    -' -   ,  J \       GREAT' R       46' I S                                                                                                       46' 00
.  ~''J'  L,SEC PAULO                                                                                BRAZIL
t !  ,-    s X A.RA                                             SAO PAULO HEALTH PROJECT
0.' 'A': FL'L; " "''   \.  r .>- -CAIEIRAS
7            MNi.iNIIPALTM  C A
'C   C, vJ  -               - ,,  m    U NDIA    l  > '  NAZARE
JUNDIAI
.__ <;uo'                                 9.~ATIBAIA                                                                         TfSRA   ETA
i           MOJDR                  / ATO
-N.    - -
C A B R I U VA  R' .0  C-                                                                         H A-\v)/\                                                                                    ,
\\st   >   xF R A NFC O          DA                 DA ROCHAA                                  MAIRIPoRA
"I                                        ~~~~~~~~     ~    ~~~~CAIEIRAS(AAROA
CAI        A         7~                            M A  9I4 \\  '  - @? R I R I P-0  R A
RANCHO GRANDE
PRAPO%  C A J A M Ati                                                           g,i                                                                                     -!                 f
SANTANA  -, ~~~~~~~~~~~A-                                                                   GUARULHOS~~~~~~AUJ
CA                     A    Ei ,P A.
ARUERi ~~~~~\                                                    :*        OU         R
PARNAIRA                                              -       S                            ..                                    L HOS~~~........
!  II-- ___   \  I  .-N  .   .   S   :  .Ws,                    EXISTING FACILITIES
SANTANA    DE  `_X                    4, ,.'                                   .,                  J                                                             I     Hospital
PARNAIBA___________________  'x.   f,r,                                      ...                                                                              A      Basic Health Units
._  1   X   5f   46 45'                       ..  ,      ,.'1:              ,,./''                                     -         Main Roads with Bus Traffic Routes~~Mfn oadswithBusTrafic Rute
I___I_______________SAO_PAULO                                                                          PROPOSED  FACILITIES                Built-up Areas
MINAS    .7 -~       ~"'~               SAO  PAULO                                                     B Ht  i                       
<t  MINAS                                                                                                            B S   A R   ML  TAN    A   A  asic Health Units  - .-  Module Boundaries
- GERAIS   l  SOUTH AMERICA ME TR OPOL I TAN    ARE3A                                            I                                                      Municipal Boundaries
g   SAO  XPAU IC)                                                                                                                                                 .......... SP  I    /  0  5  Sao PauloMuncipal Boundary
0 tAO                 ~BAR[A             RASILIA                               KILOMETERS                      7
0  j C AREA5 iAw--                                                                                                                                         State Boundaries
PA RANA  }            .ss >  <,    4c,,t               {;>  t                                                                                                              ---  International Boundaries
go r 4tVJ/C t rE4iV   3     t/  CCEAV       Zn1;Ctd           bm.mG . iMRHP    .t  S                                                     46' 00
L_~~~~~~/A,r    0A                           I    p     V   OCE! AN l






IBRD 17286R
I  ,    .   GREATER  47O00'                                                                                                   MAY 1984
SAO PAULJO                                                        BRAZIL
Aj-----   REA                           SAO  PAULO  HEALTH PROJECT
S AC PAL LO ; I
'     ;  U"'C' ALITY               \C T 
COTIA
_   .  -  /--  <                                                      ,   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J A N D I R A 
<t'-~ Ji >  ^ t -  C CtEA                                                v o/                                            CARAPICUIBA
ITAPEVI
J   >                    J                          ~~~~~~          ~       ~~~~CENTRO             ASSA
SAO ROGUE/                                 \                                  lA"<_
;/<~~~~~~~ /   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ 7~~~~ ~RIO  COTIA /-
VARGEM  GRANDE
.E  B U
234| 0                                                                                                          -     -                                      2340-
c                       ~~~T    I                        A
ITAPECERICA  DA SERRA
it                     /  ~~~~CAUCAIA 
\                  /    ~~~~~DO ALTO 
9   (  )/<(   V     /                             PROPOSED FACILITIES
S5900 8g \'-  P'   EIC8T  A       /                            Basic Health Units
SOUTH AMERICA                                          CA/A Ah I eSIv0/ I                                                EXISTING  FACILITIES
A     Basic Health Units
-a  ) BRAS iLAs},                                                                 / .ml ' |                    Hospital
'-5. b  |                                                                                  ,1 GaY+sJ>troL  )    /         Main Roads with Bus Traff[c Routes
b' p                                                                                     7 yg OCE4   y  ,'                Built-up Areas
'Sr Na/C                                                (                                  Conglomerodo Boundaries
Module Boundaries
a,                            -\ ) Municipal Boundaries
......... Sao Paulo Munic[pol Boundary
>;$ ~< ~ GERAIS\ \- 1} 6 Stote Boundaries
N           ---  International Boundaries
C     SAO PA LO AREA       ,       ,I
PARANA 4             ')       <        1/                                                                            0               I 2    3    4    5
J/-v           I                   D < 'I'.C hdS sPn nrerl/s > 1Z  W  Los ol rhe aeva Las AD fr Y .nt8.%t{.pd  K | LOhl E T EYES
< / 4z 4tv/ / f1 47 0 0n Le eN ,'dU ....... CO n) I .. S C'f'  d1V <rntKLOMETERSes
47I    0






-   r (N. qREATER            1         < 
.- ,SAO 7AUIO        ,       -                                                         BRAZIL
-AREA
AAETROPSyLiTH AMERIC -L    RA                                                        SAO  PAULO  HEALTH  PROJECT
AREA                                 l'. .RASI IA~                                                         -
AREA_,k -  TAT-OF, 'Itaquera    Gucianazes  Area
.<     J  \_        Xp,rS :X1  I  S  _PAU-
t- _  ;tj-."' -                                                 .7  :9; q>-,<-?'0*
A
N~~~~~~~~
'Ak~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
)                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G U A IA N A Z ES
A~~~~~~~~~~~'
'S..~~~~~~~~P
'A~~~~~~~~0A
PROPOSED  FACILITIES
*-\    Ks 2' ,'-  f Hospitals to be Constructed
Aui /.= ,,                                [V ,,.iLI il   ,SF   ./    Basic Health Unfts
>5f                                 -                                  |- F; = I  A/l Af/ EXISTING  FACILITIES
'5                                            S'e-.,, 4i                         . /     Hospitals
A     Basic Health Units
Main Roads with Bus Traffic Routes
MINAS                                                                                                 Built-up Areas
GERAIS                                                                                        - -   Conglomeracdo Boundaries
Ijr SAO                             ,, \A            i   O                                                      Module Boundaries
- -.-,. >'u 'i"'""'" | .5                 _    r        Tbe                                   5               0                    -  Municipal Boundaries
iFASER   1- -    ~     c--.n'Te,,i
SePSATSI AtEA
o PoA  <4   onttS m                            KILOMETERS                         *.-----   Sao Paulo Municipal Boundary
PARANA                                                                               Aprxon  uS
PA R A N A  \ P_    _    msnrwtl n>5 e7 r.mE ration                 PPuxor mOte Scr e                       -  - -  State Boundaries                 >-r
S._.   ,A,vnC C FAA     ,,,,-'bme ,,.0ur/Ca-                                                     ----  International Boundaries              Z
,Z 7.                                                                                                                                         11.  






WY"             --~- . 
BRAZIL                                                          M I N A S
,SOUTH AMERICA   \                  SAO PAULO HEALTH PROJECT                                                             GERAIS
_ BRASiLIAF-    i                     reguesia  do O
-S A II, P.z:.ILOF  |    '                       ,--           t          a 4,           GREATER
O PARAN5
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~E A, Nj  I                      j   *    H X                                               (,_
,^ .. i                          N-      A
A'
jAi '   t       '; ''      I ;I' i''
iT.    =:   t  1,       t      tr ~~~~~~~~~---2                 I.        4
I A.~~~~~~~~~   l
t;~~~~>                               >NE=.;  s  'CsU    1
A  ~~~~~A
iOT                                         PROPOSED FACILITIESR =
:it                  ",'   i,>1"' A                                                            k
t-~ ~ ~ ~~~~Ap-t Sw-=                                                 Hosptal to be Con5- t  j p'   istruc ed E
N 
O            I           2                                                           _        _
KIpOMETES oliPROPOSED FACILITIES
Aproxiaie Scole             C           -'    Hospitals to be Constructed
r'      \   ~~Basic Health Units
E nm soriSewn onstne ul r:s *nbU3qs nos ff /U o roEX1ISTING FACI LITI ES
4      Hospital
GREATER                         A      Basic Health Units
_       FO PzT                 ARS   PAULO                       -      Main Roads with Bus Traffic Routes
A LA,::    "V AREA
7 :   i:.-   X ;\,   ,             - -: j); t Built-up Areas
/  .   ,  SAO PAJ)LO  '"  ~            ---  Conglomerado Boundaries
S NICIPALITY      -.O                      -      Module Boundaries
. .. .__                                     District Boundaries
......... Sao Paulo Municipality Boundary
I                                    Sta_R-  <   ; Cfk9;  ----State Boundaries            >
International Boundaries                               14co



