                                      Document of
                                     The World Bank

                               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                     Report No: 53757-TZ.




                                    PROJECT PAPER

                                           ON A

                     SECOND ADDITIONAL FINANCING CREDIT

     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 23.1 MILLION ( U S 3 5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
              IN PILOT CRISIS RESPONSE WINDOW RESOURCES


                                         TO THE

                          UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA

                                        FOR THE

                            . SECOND SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT

                                       May 13,2010




Eastern Africa 1
Human Development
Social Protection Unit
Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective March 31,2010)


                         Currency Unit = TSh
                          TSh1,357.50 = US$l
                          US$1.51824 = S D R l

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                July 1 - June30
                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF       Additional Financing
BA       Beneficiary Assessment
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CB-CCT   Community Based Conditional Cash Transfer
CCT      Conditional Cash Transfer
CDD      Community Driven Development
CE       Capacity Enhancement
CMC      Community Management Committees
CMO      Chief Minister's Office
COMSIP   Community Savings Investment Promotion
CPPR     Country Portfolio Performance Review
CRW      Crisis Response Window
csc      Community Score Card
EL4      Environmental Impact Assessment
E-PRA    Extended Participatory Rural Appraisal
ESMF     Environmental and Social Management Framework
FI       Food-Insecure
IDA      International Development Association
JAST     Joint Assistance Strategy for Tanzania
LGA      Local Government Authority
MIS      Management Information Systems
NSC      National Steering Committee
NVF      National Village Fund
PDO      Project Development Objective
WF       Resettlement Policy Framework
SDR      Special Drawing Right
SP       Service-Poor Community
SPIF     Subproject Interest Form
TAMFI    Tanzania Association of Microfmance Institutions
TASAF    Tanzania Social Action Fund
TMU      TASAF Management Unit
VG       Vulnerable Group

                        Vice President:       Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                     Country Director:        John Murray McIntire
                 Acting Sector Director       Tawhid Nawaz
                       Sector Manager:        Lynne D. Sherburne-Benz
                    Task Team Leader:         Ida Manjolo


                                          1
                                                                                                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                   UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA

                  SECOND ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR TANZANIA SECOND SOCIAL
                                       ACTION FUND

                                                              TABLE OF CONTENTS

           I.             INTRODUCTION ................................................................................................... 1
           I1.            BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING ..........1
           111.           PROPOSED CHANGES .........................................................................................                    5
           IV .           CONSISTENCY WITH THE COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ..............7
           V.             APPRAISAL OF SCALED-UP PROJECT ACTIVITIES ......................................                                               8
                          A . Economic and Financial Analyses ......................................................................                     8
                          B . Technical .............................................................................................................    8
                          C . Fiduciary Analysis ..............................................................................................         9
                          D . Safeguards .........................................................................................................      10
                          E . Expected Outcomes ...........................................................................................             11
           VI .           BENEFITS AND RISKS .......................................................................................                    11
           VI1.           FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE ADDITIONAL
                          FINANCING .........................................................................................................           12
           Annex 1: Revised Results Framework and Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements ........ 13
           Annex 2: Support for the Food-Insecure Group of Beneficiaries ..........................................                                     21
           Annex 3: Support for Vulnerable Groups ..............................................................................                        26
           Annex 4:Risk Assessment .....................................................................................................                28
           Annex 5: Summary of Components Financed by the Original Project, First and Second
                    Additional Financing .............................................................................................                  29
           Annex 6: TASAF NSC Composition, Original and Current ..................................................                                      30
           Annex 7: Procurement Plan for AF-I1 for FY2010/1 1 ...........................................................                               31
           Annex 8: Draft Action Plan for Completion of the Outstanding Subprojects ........................                                            34
           Annex 9: Country at a Glance ................................................................................................ 36
           Annex 10: Map ....................................................................................................................... 40


           Table 1: Key Project Data and Performance of TASAF-I1 (April 2 1. 201 0) ...........................                                          3
           Table 2: Subproject Interest Forms Submitted and Subprojects Funded .................................
                                                                                                            4
           Table 3: Allocation of Additional Financing to the Original Project (US$ Million) ...............6




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                                       TANZANIA
                 SECOND ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR TASAF I1
                                    PROJECT PAPER
                                         AFRICA
                                         AFTSP
                            Basic Information (Original Project)
Project ID: PO85786                            Project Name: Tanzania Second Social Action
                                               Fund
Team Leader: Ida Manjolo                       Expected Closing Date: June 30, 2013
Environmental category: B                      Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan
Partial Assessment
                         Basic Information (Additional Financing)
Date: May 13,2010                              Team Leader: Ida Manjolo
Country Director: John Murray McIntire         Sectors: Other social services (1 00%)
Sector ManagerDirector: Lynne D. Sherbume- Themes: Social safety nets (1 00%)
Benz
Project ID: PI20881                            Environmental category: B-Partial Assessment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan Additional Financing Type: Scale Up /Cost
                                               Overrun




                  Source                          Local           Foreign        Total
BORROWERRECIPIENT                                    0.00             0.00         0.00
International Development Association               35.00             0.00        35.00
(IDA)
Total:                                              35.00             0.00         35.00
Borrower:
United Republic of Tanzania, Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
P.O. 91 11
     Box
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Tanzania
Tel: 255-22 21 1-2854 Fax: 255-22 21 1-7090 / 21 1-0326
www.mof.go.tz
Responsible Agency:
TASAF Management Unit
Old Kilwa Malindi Street
PO Box 9381
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
Tel: 255-22 212-358314      Fax: 255-22 212-3582
info@tasaf.org


                                            iii
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Re$ Section Appraisal of Project Activities                                        [ ]Yes [XI No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                        [ ]Yes [ ] No
Does the project include any critical risks rated ?substantial? or ?high??
                                                                                   [ ]Yes [XI No
Re$ Section Project Risks and Mitigating Measures
Project development objective Re$ Section Bank Response

The Development Objective of the Second Additional Financing is the same as the revised
project development objective of the Original Project, namely, to improve access of beneficiary
households to enhanced socioeconomic services and income-generating opportunities.

Project description Re? Section Bank Response

The Second Additional Financing for TASAF I1 will be implemented under the two components
of the Original Project, namely, the National Village Fund and Capacity Enhancement.

a)      The National Village Fund Component (US$3 1.O million) will finance interventions for
food-insecure households, vulnerable groups, and service poor communities. Under this
component, funds will be channeled to the food-insecure households to help them cope with food
shortage and food-price emergencies. The vulnerable groups will receive support to implement
small-scale economic subprojects, which will generate income to help them cope with the risks
they face. Community Savings and Investment Promotion will be carried out to facilitate savings
and investment in poor community groups. For the service-poor communities, the component
will fund completion activities for subprojects (including provision of furniture to schools) that
were funded under TASAF 11.

 b)    The Capacity Enhancement Component (US$4.0 million) will support development
communication, technical assistance and capacity building, project management, participatory
monitoring and evaluation, transparency, and accountability.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Re$ Section Appraisal of Project Activities
The safeguard policies triggered by the Second Additional Financing are: Environmental
Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12), which are the same as in
the original Project.




                                               iv
I.      INTRODUCTION

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors for a proposed credit
in the amount of SDR23.lmillion (US$35 million equivalent) from the Pilot Crisis Response
Window (CRW) resources to the United Republic of Tanzania for the Tanzania Second
Social Action Fund (TASAF-11), ID PO85786 consisting of Credit Nos.4002 TA for SDR87.9
million (US$129 million), 46360 TA for SDR20.2 million (US$30 million), and Grant No.
H134TA for SDR14.4 million (US$21 million).

2.      The proposed Second Additional Financing (AF-11) will scale up TASAF-I1 activities
in vulnerable districts in the Mainland and in Zanzibar as determined by the Rapid
Vulnerability Assessment Report of October 2009. According to this report, the number of
food-insecure districts increased from 42 (40 in the Mainland and 2 in Zanzibar) in
2008/2009 to 63 in 2009/2010, leaving 1.6 million people in need of assistance. The AF-I1
will also fund the cost overruns that have arisen because beneficiary communities have not
been able to make available the expected contribution for the subprojects due to the negative
impacts of the financial and food crisis, as well as natural calamities such as drought and
floods on their livelihoods. There have also been price increases for materials and
transportation which have contributed to the subproject cost overruns. Completion of the
subprojects is required in order to achieve the intended outcomes in the targeted
communities.

3.     The proposed AF-I1 will support all three beneficiary groups that are supported under
TASAF-11; name1 the food-insecure (FI), vulnerable groups (VGs) and service-poor
communities (SP) ?, It will finance social protection initiatives such as public works, and
                    .
support interventions aimed at reaching these three groups to minimize the negative effects of
the global financial and food crisis, drought, and flash floods. Since May 2005, TASAF has
received 102,517 subproject interest forms (SPIFs) from communities. To date TASAF-I1 has
financed 485 public works subprojects for the FI and 2,327 subprojects for VGs, at a total
value of US$35.8 million, as well as 3,225 subprojects for SP, valued at US$ 94.6 million
(See Table 2). The first Additional Financing (AF-I) approved on June 9, 2009 will finance
approximately 1,000 additional subprojects, and the proposed AF-I1 is expected to support
another 467 subprojects; and completion of about 1,000 subprojects that were funded under
TASAF 11.

11.     BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING

4.      Background. The Tanzania Social Action Fund is a community-driven development
(CDD) operation launched by the government of the United Republic of Tanzania in 2000 as
one of the instruments for fighting poverty. TASAF delivers critical basic infrastructure
services and social assistance to the urban and rural poor while addressing institutional,
organizational, and capacity-building needs at village and district levels. TASAF-I1 was
approved by the Board on November 30, 2004, and became effective on May 11, 2005. The
International Development Association (IDA) support for TASAF-I1 consists of a credit of


' TASAF-I1 has three beneficiary groups: (i) service-poor communities (Le. those that lack health, education,
and other social infrastructure services); (ii) able-bodied but food-insecure individuals; and (iii) vulnerable
groups (which include orphans, widows and widowers, people affected and infected by HIV/AIDS,
unemployed youths and the elderly).
SDR 87.9 million (US$129 million equivalent) and a grant in the amount of SDR14.4 million
(US$21 million equivalent). Additional financing (AF-I) in the amount of SDR 20.2 million
(US$30 million) was approved for scaling up TASAF-I1 activities on June 9, 2009. The
TASAF is funded by the IDA, the participating communities, and the United Republic of
Tanzania. Its coverage is nationwide, operating through the local government authorities
(LGAs) in the Mainland and Zanzibar (Unguja and Pemba).

5.       Project objectives and components. The project development objective (PDO) of
the Original Project (referred to as TASAF-I1 and AF-I in this paper) is to improve access of
beneficiary households to enhanced socioeconomic services and income-generating
opportunities. The Original Project has two components: The first is the National Village
Fund (NVF) (US$145.5 million), which enables communities to: (i) access resources that can
stimulate economic activity and enable poor households to increase their incomes; (ii) reduce
their vulnerability by empowering them with instruments to protect against the risks they
face; and (iii) improve their access to and use of social services. The second component is
capacity enhancement (CE) (US$34.5 million), which builds the capacity of sector staff at the
district, ward, and community level to undertake activities that help realize the PDO.

6.       Project Status and Performance. The project is making satisfactory progress
towards meeting the development objective. Both the implementation progress and
development objective ratings in the Implementation Status and Results Report ratings have
been rated satisfactory throughout the project's life, with the exception of the first year.
Initially, there was a slow uptake because it took a long time to put the projects' roll-out
systems in place. A Beneficiary Assessment (BA) Report (January 2008) indicated that 87
percent of sampled communities expressed satisfaction with the improved access to services
because of the project. Furthermore, in September 2008, the analysis of the baseline data of
the ongoing TASAF I1 Impact Evaluation Study indicated that the project has targeted the
right beneficiaries as per the project design and selection criteria. A more thorough impact
evaluation report will be available in April 201 1.

7.     The first project component, namely the NVF, provides support to communities for
implementation of subprojects that enhance their access to services, increase employment
opportunities, and increase incomes for able-bodied but food-insecure individuals and
vulnerable groups. To date, the NVF component has supported 6,037 community subprojects,
valued at US$130.5 million. This has led to substantial increases in the number of people
with improved access to socioeconomic service facilities, as follows:

       increase in the number of people with access to improved socioeconomic services by:
            10 million people for access to basic package of health, meeting the target;
            1.2 million people for access to improved water sources, meeting the target;
           880,000 people for access to improved sanitation, against a target of 889,250;
         . 2.2 million people for access to all-season roads, against a target of 2.7 million;
           202,000 people for access to irrigation, against a target of 381,000;
           326,000 people for access to markets, against a target of 158,000;
       an improvement in the student-classroom ratio in targeted areas from 1:70 to 1:45;
       14.8 million increase in person-days provided in labor intensive public works against
       a target of 14.3 million;
       85% of citizens satisfied with the quality of delivery of basic social services
       according to the community members from sampled areas; and



                                              2
(v)      15.3 million direct project beneficiaries (of whom 55 percent are female) reached over
         a target of 15.9 million.

8.     TASAF has developed a robust outreach capacity over the years, and both the
organizational infrastructure that has been developed and the management and monitoring
approach that it uses are much in demand for reaching more communities. The Government
has channeled part of the proceeds from other sources, including three IDA-funded Projects,
through TASAF to use its implementation infrastructure to support community
interventions*. In addition to 6,037 subprojects financed by the TASAF I1 project, these ring-
fenced funds under TASAF I1 total US$33.6 million, providing support to about 1,400
communities.

9.       The second component-the CE-provides support for building capacity among
communities, as well as district and national stakeholders, in technical skills required for
NVF implementation. A total of 137,784 community implementers and 5,522 district-level
facilitators have been trained since TASAF-I1 began. The Project has developed the use of
community scorecards (CSC) as a social accountability tool for service delivery by providers,
which is quickly being replicated at the district level. TASAF is also managing the
implementation of a four-year Community-Based Conditional Cash Transfer (CB-CCT) Pilot,
funded by the Japanese Social Development Fund in the amount of US$1,879,915. The
overall objective of the pilot is to test how a conditional cash transfer program could be
implemented through a social fund using a CDD approach, and develop systems that need to
be in place for scaling up to achieve positive results. As of March 3 1, 201 0, the effectiveness
of the pilot project?s delivery systems was assessed and found to be satisfactory to handle a
scale-up planned under the AF- 1.
Table 1: Key Project Data and Performance of TASAF-I1 (April 21,2010)

      (a) Key Data                                   (b) Project Performance
 Total grant and credit amount: US$I80m          Legal covenants: substantially complied with
 (Credit: USS129m; Grant: US$2lm;                Development Objective: Satisfactory
 AF-I Cr.: US$30m)
 Effectiveness date: May 1 1,2005                Implementation Progress: Satisfactory
 Closing date: June 30, 2012                     Financial management: Satisfactory
 Current disbursement:                           Procurement: Moderately Satisfactory
 Credit-US$l2 7. lm; Grant-US$22.18m;
 AF-I Cr.: $6.lm
 Remaining balance: *                            Environmental and Social Safeguards: Satisfactory
 Credit-US$5.27m; Grant-US$O. 3m;
 AF-1 Cr.: $23.9rn


10.     Rationale. An assessment of income-poverty levels in Tanzania since 2001 shows
that in Mainland Tanzania the reduction in income poverty was moderate, decreasing from
35.6 percent of the population in 2000/01 to 33.4 percent in 2007 (Household Budget Surveys
2008). However, this gain could be offset due to the impact of the food and financial crisis of



  These include the Tanzania Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project, the Tanzania Forestry Community Management
Project, the Marine and Coastal Environmental Management Project as well as the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries Fund.


                                                     3
         the last two years. Real Gross Domestic Product growth has dropped from 7.4 percent in
         2008 to 6.0 percent in 20093. Many sectors of Tanzania's economy have been affected by the
         global crisis. Tourism, manufacturing, and agriculture have all experienced declines due to a
         drop in both demand and prices. In the case of agriculture, the coffee and cotton subsectors
         were the most affected by the global crisis. This has led to many people losing their jobs and
         livelihoods, falling below the poverty line, and requiring support for survival. The October
         2009 Rapid Vulnerability Assessment indicated that 1.6 million people in 63 vulnerable
         districts (61 on the mainland and 2 in Zanzibar) are in dire need of assistance. In FY08/09,
         the economy faced enhanced and sustained inflationary pressures even though the
         international commodity prices had declined significantly. The rising inflation was driven by
         the food prices reflecting the effects of the drought, the situation led to annual inflation of 10
         percent in 2008 and 11.9 percent in 2O0gn4Consequently, food prices have increased in both
         rural and urban areas, and the social impacts are estimated to be considerable, negatively
         affecting nutritional status-particularly for children and the elderly. The welfare impacts of
         high prices are especially serious for poor and food-insecure people.

          11.    There is a significant demand for TASAF I1 safety net interventions among
         communities across the country which remains unmet. During preparation of TASAF-I1 in
         2004/05, the government estimated a financing requirement of about US$400 million for 121
         LGAs, of which only US$120 million was secured from IDA. During implementation a surge
         in demand resulted in a total of 102,517 Subproject Interest Forms (SPIFs) being submitted to
         the TASAF Management Unit (TMU) for funding consideration. Less than five percent of the
         community demand for FI and VG subproject interventions has been financed. Based on
         experience in assessing SPIFs readiness for financing, about one third of the unfunded
         submissions (Le,, 20,931 SPIFs), with a monetary value of US$626 million, would have
         qualified (see Table 2). An analysis by the LGAs indicates that about 1,000 SP subprojects
         funded are incomplete due to either communities not being able to meet their contributions or
         due to the high price escalations for materials and transportation that have led to the cost
         overrun. The LGAs estimate that the total amount needed to complete these subprojects is
         US$21 million, out of which US$14.2 million is required for education sector, US$5 million
         for the health sector, and the remainder for subprojects for water, roads, markets, and
         vulnerable groups. The number of the uncompleted subprojects and resources required will
         be verified by the TMU.


`        Table 2: Subproject Interest Forms Submitted and Subprojects Funded



          (a)
      Beneficiaries
                        (b)
                       Total
                                       (4
                                   Estimated
                                       of "IFs
                                                     (d) Number
                                                       of sub
                                                                            (e)
                                                                          Value of
                                                                            sub-
                                                                                                (0
                                                                                             Number of
                                                                                             SPIFs not
                                                                                                                 (! )
                                                                                                              Number of
                                                                                                              SPIFs that
                                                                                                             can pass for
                                                                                                                                       (h)
                                                                                                                                   Estimated
                                                                                                                                 Value of SPIFs
                                                                                                                                  passing for
                       SPIFs        Received
                                                      Projects            Projects
        Group         Received                        Funded              Funded              .Funded        Funding out            Funding
                                   (`000 us S)
                                                                         (`000   us $)          -
                                                                                              (b) (d)            of (0             as Per (9)
                                                                                                             (33.3% of (0)        (`000   us $ )
                                   1,426,900.0          485               11,806.7            31,224            10,408             468,360.0

                                    508,920.0          2,327              24,073.2            31,601            10,523             157,845 .O
      Groups
                                                 I                   I                   I               1                   I
~~~




      Subtotals       65,637       1,935,820.0         2,812              35,879.9            62,825           20,931              626,205.0




          Economic Survey 2009, Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs.
          Tanzania Eighth PRSC, 201 0.


                                                                 4
Service Poor     36,880        1,659,600.0        3,225         94,569.0       33,655         11,207         504,315.0
Communities
Total            102,517       3,595,420.0        6,037         130,448.9      96,480        32,138         1,130,520.0



   12.    The government has responded to these situations by increasing budgetary allocations
   to expand safety nets to reach deserving individuals and groups. At the request of the
   government, the Bank has also responded by supporting emergency projects, including the
   Accelerated Food Security Program and Supplemental Financing for the Seventh Poverty
   Reduction Support Credit. As part of the Accelerated Food Security Program, a US$30
   million IDA Additional Financing Credit (AF-I) to TASAF I1 was approved by the Board on
   June 9,2009. This amount is used to finance subprojects for both FI households and VGs (see
   Table 3).

  13.      The proposed AF-11, to be funded under the Pilot Crisis Response Window, is a
  response to the impacts of the global financial and food crisis and natural calamities. It is
  intended to provide an effective safety net for targeted poor people who are food-insecure and
  have limited employment opportunities. The safety net schemes will do so by promoting
  labor-intensive activities, thereby creating job opportunities, improving food security, and
  creating community assets. The AF-I1 will also fund completion of SP subprojects so as to
  increase access by the poor to services in order to improve education and health outcomes. In
  so doing, the proposed AF-I1 as a multisectoral Project is in line with the CRW objective of
  providing financial assistance for initiatives to protect core spending on health, education,
  social safety nets, infrastructure, and agriculture.

  111.     PROPOSED CHANGES

  14.        AF-I1 proposes no changes in the project objective, components or other design
  features. The Development Objective of the Second Additional Financing is the same as the
  revised project development objective of the Original Project, namely, to improve access of
  beneficiary households to enhanced socioeconomic services and income-generating
  opportunities. The project will fund the cost overruns for the subprojects completion
  activities. The project will also scale up safety net interventions in selected food-insecure
  districts on the Mainland and in Zanzibar. The number of food-insecure districts increased
  from 42 in 2008/09 to 63 in 2009/2010, according to the Rapid Vulnerability Assessment
  Report on food shortage areas in Tanzania (October 2009). AF-I supports the initial forty
  districts on the Mainland and two in Zanzibar. The proposed AF-I1 will finance the additional
  25 districts identified in the 2009 report (see Annex 2), in addition to the original vulnerable
   district^.^ The Results Framework has slightly been revised to include one of the IDA15 core
  indicators on Direct Project Beneficiaries. Similarly the wording of indicators has been
  aligned to the core sector indicators (see Annex 1).

  15.     The AF-I1 will be implemented under the two components of the Original Project-
  the National Village Fund and Capacity Enhancement.



    The October 2009 Rapid Vulnerability Assessment Report confirmed that, out of 40 districts in the Mainland
  and 2 in Zanzibar identified in the 2008 survey, all but four were still food-insecure. Four districts were removed
  from the list because they are in better condition. However, 25 new districts were labeled food-insecure,
  bringing the total number of food-insecure districts for 2010 to 63.


                                                          5
         a) The National Village Fund Component (US$31.0 million) will finance
         interventions for FI households (US$8 million), VGs (US$3 million) and SP
         communities ( U S 2 0 million). (Details of the kind of support given to these
         beneficiary categories under the NVF are provided in annexes 2 and 3.) Under this
         component, funds will be channeled to the FI households to help them cope with food
         shortage and food-price emergencies. The VGs will receive support to implement
         small-scale economic subprojects, which will generate income to help them cope with
         the risks they face. Community Savings and Investment Promotion initiative will
         facilitate savings and investment in poor community groups. For the SP, the
         component will fund completion activities (including the provision of furniture to
         schools) for the subprojects that were funded under TASAF I1 but had cost overruns
         or financial shortfalls so that the anticipated benefits to the targeted communities are
         realized. In order to ensure completion of the remaining activities in these 1,000
         subprojects, the Government is required to submit to the Association by June 30,2010
         a final action plan, acceptable to the Association, identifying all the remaining
         activities and the associated costs as well as the proposed actions. The Government
         will be further required to implement this action plan by no later than December 3 1,
         2010, before any new subprojects can be funded under Category 1 (c). The National
         Village Fund component supports a combination of public works subprojects for the
         food-insecure, income-generating activities for the VGs, savings and investment
         promotion for savers, and infrastructure for the service-poor communities.

      b)      The Capacity Enhancement Component (US$4.0 million) will support
      development communication, technical assistance and capacity building, project
      management, participatory monitoring and evaluation, transparency, and accountability.


      Table 3: Allocation of Additional Financing to the Original Project (US$Million)



      1. National
      Village Fund
                                         120   I                25.5   1             31.0     I   -   176.5   1
      (a) Food                          10.0                    16.5                   8.0             34.5
          Insecure
      (b) Vulnerable
          Groups
                                        11.0                     4.5   I               3 .O            18.5

      (c) Service Poor                  99.0                       0                 20.0             119.0
      (d) Cornmunity-
          Based
          Conditional                      0                     4.5                  0.0               4.5
          Cash
          Transfer'
      2. Capacity                        30                      4.5                  4.0             38.5
      Enhancement
      Total                            150.0                    30.0                 35.0              215



  As mentioned in paragraph 9, the ongoing Pilot Community-based Conditional Cash Transfer is financed with
the US$] million grant from the Japanese Social Development Fund
        .9


                                                     6
16.      The Implementation Arrangements will remain the same as that of the Original
Project. The project will be organized in a decentralized manner to facilitate greater
autonomy and empowerment to local government structures and the community. It will
operate within the three spheres of government, namely national, LGA, and village levels.'
At the national level, the project will be administered under the President's Office with
oversight being vested in the National Steering Committee (NSC), appointed by the President
of the United Republic of Tanzania. The government has indicated that the following changes
will be made in the composition of the NSC to improve its effectiveness: (i) include a
member from the Ministry of Agriculture Food Security and Cooperatives; (ii) include
representation from the Tanzania Association of Microfinance Institutions; (iii) remove
representation by the Planning Commission of the Vice President's Office because this
portfolio is now under the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs and this Ministry is
already represented; and (iv) remove the Presidential Trust Fund for Self-Reliance (see
Annex 6). These changes in the NSC's composition reflect the operation's focus on
enhancing food security and livelihoods.

17.     The implementation of the project will be managed by the TASAF Management Unit
(TMU) and will follow the TASAF-I1 methodology of delivery without any changes.
Guidelines developed over the years and the operational procedures currently in effect will
apply. Communities will manage subprojects with oversight from the LGAs, supported by the
TMU.

18.      Credit Closing Date. The Credit Closing Date for AF-I1 would be extended to June
30,2013, which thus becomes the new Closing Date for the Original Credit. With the original
closing Date of June 30, 2010, the cumulative period extended is within the three-year limit
stipulated in OP13.20, Additional Financing for Investment Lending.

19.      Partnership Arrangement. The project is not co-financed by other development
partners.

IV.      CONSISTENCY WITH THE COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
20.      The current Joint Assistance Strategy for Tanzania (JAST) Report No. 38625 (2007-
2010) of March 2007 is aligned to the National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of
Poverty (the MKUKUTA) of the Government of Tanzania through the three Clusters: (i)
growth of the economy and reduction in income poverty; (ii) improvement of quality of life
and social well-being; and (iii) governance and accountability. The social protection objective
under Cluster I1 particularly focuses on reaching the poorest and most vulnerable groups and
reducing inequalities across geography, income, age, gender, and other strata. The JAST also
supports one of the five main goals of this cluster, namely, provision of adequate social
protection and the rights of vulnerable and needy groups to basic needs and services. One


' In Zanzibar, the operational set up is at national, island (Unguja and Pemba), and Shehia levels. Whereas on
the Mainland, funds are disbursed directly to communities or through the LGAs for compliant or non-compliant
LGA to Local Government Development Grant, disbursement to Unguja and Pemba is done through the Chief
Minister's Office (CMO) designate for each island, who in turn disburses 90 percent ofthe subproject budget to
respective Community Management Committees (CMCs) accounts. The CMO retains the entire 10 percent for
supervision and monitoring as the Shehia Advisory Councils do not have fiduciary powers to operate bank
accounts. In practice therefore, unlike the case for LGAs on the Mainland, subproject implementation,
supervision, and monitoring is paid for by the respective CMO-in-charge officers for Unguja or Pemba.



                                                      7
way the JAST addresses these issues is through its support for TASAF and extensive use of
the social protection initiatives that empower communities to request, implement, and
monitor subprojects that improve their livelihood. Consistent with the JAST goals, the
Original Project and the AF-I1 serve the needs of households with limited access to and use of
specified service packages, vulnerable individuals needing assistance, and FI households with
limited employment opportunities.

V.         APPRAISAL OF SCALED-UP PROJECT ACTIVITIES
A. Economic and Financial Analyses
2 1.     The economic and financial analysis carried out for TASAF-I1 and AF-I fully apply
to AF-11.' AF-I1 will continue to use the existing implementation strategy to secure the
economic and financial benefits discussed in the TASAF-I1 Project Appraisal Document and
AF-I Project Paper (PP). The same resource allocation formula, which is based on population,
physical size of the district, and poverty indicators, will be used to broaden and deepen the
poverty reduction objective of the project in the targeted districts. According to the recent
baseline data analysis for the project impact assessment, a significant number of grassroots
community assets for social service provision have been created. The demand-driven nature
of the selected subprojects has ensured that TASAF funds allocated for such interventions
flow to where they are most needed. The direct involvement of communities has generated
significant cost-savings when compared to the cost of similar interventions executed by other
public sector agencies. This is especially true for interventions in the education, health, and
water sectors. For instance, the Technical Audit (October 2007) found out that TASAF-
funded subprojects were implemented at a cost of US$102 per square meter in contrast to
US$132 per square meter, achieved by public sector implementers under the Secondary
Education Development Program.

22.      Communities have improved their incomes through income-generating activities in
crop and livestock production and are highly motivated to undertake the project activities,
While the grant is a one-time support, the communities contribute five percent towards the
investment cost and they take full responsibility for operation and maintenance. The active
role that communities take in subproject selection and implementation engenders a strong
sense of ownership, which helps to improve quality and the likelihood of the investment's
sustainability. A recent rapid assessment of the public works program concluded in March
2010, revealed that investing in a public works program for the food insure households yields
positive results as indicated below and is therefore economically justifiable:

      i.   About 90 percent of all respondents who received wages from the public works
           program spent their income on food purchases.
     ii.   Public Works Program beneficiaries have acquired skills. For example, about 28
           percent indicated having acquired skills in batching and mixing of concrete during
           road construction, 28 percent in cement-block making, 25 percent in road
           construction, 7 percent in culvert making and 12 percent in other unspecified skill
           areas.

B. Technical


  The TASAF-I1 Project Appraisal Document and AF-I PP discuss the economic and financial aspect of the
project in detail.


                                                    8
23.      The design of TASAF-I1 has benefited from the experience of implementing the first
phase of TASAF. Project interventions have been tested and lessons integrated in the design
of TASAF-11, AF-I, and, now AF-11. To further ensure technical viability, communities are
advised to embark on schemes that are simple, small in size, labor intensive, and
economically and socially viable. Subprojects are also expected to be of the type that the
communities can maintain and operate in a sustained way, and comply with the Resettlement
Policy Framework (RPF) and the Environmental and Social Management Framework
(ESMF) approved for the Project. Communities get technical assistance from the relevant
departments of LGAs, or contractual service providers, to ensure conformity with the sector
norms and standards. All subprojects are first screened and approved at the LGA level and
finally reviewed at the national level by the sector expert teams before funding approval can
be given by the NSC.

24.       A technical audit conducted at mid-term (March 2008) examined whether the
allocated resources are being used in a cost-effective manner and for the intended purpose
including: the quality of works; the conformity of construction works to the designs; the
appropriateness of the contract price; the implementation of environmental mitigation
measures against the identified negative impacts; the effectiveness of community supervision;
the performance of local service providers; and the relevance of the selected intervention. The
audit showed that subprojects implemented by communities are technically sound and that
the works are also of acceptable standard. Grassroots communities, according to the report,
have demonstrated the capacity to manage large sums of development funds on their own,
illustrating the high level and depth of community participation under the project. Therefore,
the interventions supported by the AF-I1 will use the existing technical guidelines and
procedures while addressing the challenges identified by the technical audit report, namely
transition issues that include functionality, sustainability, and completion.

C. Fiduciary Analysis

25.      Financial Management. The most recent financial management review was carried
out in March 2010 and covered budgeting, staffing, account systems, internal and external
audits, flow of funds, and banking arrangements. The findings show that the financial
management of TASAF-I1 is adequate and rated as satisfactory. Annual audited financial
statements have been received on a timely basis. The Controller and Auditor General issued
an unqualified opinion on the project's financial statement. Audit observations included in
the management letter of the audit for the period ending December 2009 are being followed
up with at the LGA level. There are no outstanding audit issues pending from previous years.
Format, content, and the frequency of Financial Monitoring Reports have been adhered to as
agreed. Financial covenants with regard to the submission of audit reports and Financial
Monitoring Reports have been complied with. Taking these factors into account, thejinancial
management risk associated with the project has been rated as moderate, and the same
system will be used for AF-11. To handle the additional funds that will flow to target districts,
the TMU will assess the absorptive capacity of the additional allocation to the districts and
make provisions to strengthen the capacity of the LGAs to deal with the additional demands.
Adequate provision is made under the CE component to cover capacity-building expenditures
arising from new demand. In addition, the findings and recommendations of the Field Review
of Decentralized Investments (July 2009) will be taken on board in order to strengthen impact
on the ground.




                                               9
26.      Procurement. Procurement for the Original Project, the AF-I and the AF-I1 would
be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits'' dated May 2004, revised October 2006; "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers'' dated May 2004, revised October
2006; Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed
by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006; and Guidelines and
the provisions stipulated in the Financing Agreement. Procurement for all International
Competitive Bidding will be carried out using the Bank's current Standard Bidding
Documents (SBDs) and Standard Evaluation Forms. The Government's SBDs for National
Competitive Bidding procedures have been found acceptable to the Bank except for the
provision of domestic preference to domestic suppliers/contractors, which is not as per the
Bank's Guidelines. In accordance with paragraph 1.14(e) of the Procurement Guidelines, each
bidding document and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall provide that:
(i) the bidders, suppliers, contractors, and subcontractors shall permit the Association, at its
request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the bid submission and performance
of the contract, and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the
association; and (ii) the deliberate and material violation by the bidder, supplier, contractor,
or subcontractor of such provision may amount to an obstructive practice as defined in
paragraph 1.14(a)(v) of the Procurement Guidelines. For each contract to be financed under
the project, the various procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for
pre-qualification, the estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time-frames have been
agreed on between the Borrower and the Bank, and are presented in the Procurement Plan
(Annex 7). The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect
the actual Project implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity.

27.      Implementation of procurement activities under TASAF-I1 and AF-I has been
successful and procurement for AF-I1 will continue under the same arrangement. According
to the Country Portfolio Performance Review 2009 Survey and the Public Procurement
Regulatory Authority, TASAF's procurement performance is commendable. Nevertheless,
the performance rating is moderately satisfactory because the TMU failed to fill the key
position of procurement manager for over a year. The TMU has now identified a person for
the position and the IDA has provided a No Objection. Under the ongoing project, the bulk of
the procurement is carried out by communities through CDD procurement. Procurement
under the AF-I1 will also be CDD procurement and will benefit from past experience. There
will be a need to continue to broaden and strengthen the capacity enhancement activities at
the LGA and community levels, particularly for the latter. Additional procurement training
will be provided to participants in the target districts and supervision and monitoring
capacities will be strengthened. The TMU at the national level will be responsible for
oversight while the LGAs will continue to provide support at the subproject level. Given the
demand-driven nature of the subprojects; community-level procurement cannot be planned up
front, However, key rules, procedures, and process steps have been agreed on and are
incorporated in the Project Operational Manual. The Procurement Plan for the Original
Project, as well as for AF-I have been updated, and the Procurement Plan for the AF-I1 is in
Annex 7.

D. Safeguards

28.      Environment. The Original Project has an Environmental Category B classification
and this remains the same for AF-11. An Environmental and Social Management Framework
is in place, which will also be used for AF-11. At the community-planning stage, where


                                              10
Extended Participatory Rural Appraisal (E-PRA) takes place, potential environmental
impacts will be identified and a limited impact assessment will be conducted by LGA staff
trained in environmental issues. Where no negative environmental impacts are identified, the
LGA officer will sign off at appraisal and confirm that the assessment has been conducted for
subprojects. Subproject proposals that require an environmental impact assessment (EIA) will
be sent to the NSC for evaluation by the Sector Experts Team, which will assign
environmental specialists to conduct the assessment. The additional financing allocated for
public works will target subprojects that enhance communities' natural resource management
awareness and skills. Implementation of these public works subprojects will take measures to
mitigate the negative impacts on the environment, with a view to promoting sustainable
livelihoods and development.

29.      Social impacts. Social impacts are expected to be positive, with Project activities
gradually leading to an improved quality of life for food-insecure and vulnerable groups by
enhancing their access to social and economic opportunities. In addition to the benefits
accruing to the target beneficiaries, there will be increased economic activity in the area
surrounding the subprojects and in the rural economy. Beneficiaries will be selected through
community-based participatory methods as in the Original Project, which have been found to
reach the intended beneficiaries successfully, as confirmed in the TASAF-I1 Impact
Evaluation baseline analysis. The Original Project triggered OP 4.12, which necessitated
putting the Resettlement Policy Framework in place. This instrument facilitates the
mainstreaming of community involvement at each appropriate subproject implementation
stage. In this regard, the RPF provides detailed social safeguards policies and procedural
guidance. The same arrangements will continue to apply under the proposed AF-I1 as needed.

E. Expected Outcomes

30.      The results framework for AF-I1 is similar to that of the Original Project. The
additional activities to be financed by the AF-I1 will reinforce achievement of the PDO. Key
performance indicator targets of the Original Project are revised, taking into account the
effect of the scaled-up interventions. The following improvements will be realized as a result
of the scaling-up: (i) improved access to basic socioeconomic services leading to improved
learning environment; increases in rural access roads, irrigation infrastructure, and markets;
(ii) increased access to income-generating opportunities in targeted districts leading to a 5
percent increase in the income of targeted vulnerable beneficiaries; and (iii) improved quality
of basic services, leading to 80 percent citizen's satisfaction with the delivery of basic social
services in targeted areas. AF-I1 is estimated to directly benefit an additional 155,738 people,
increasing the total number of direct TASAF I1 beneficiaries to 9.9 million (See Annex 1,
Table A 1.1. indicator number 6).

VI.    BENEFITS AND RISKS

3 1.    The proposed AF-I1 is expected to benefit about 155,738 individuals directly, leading
to about 778,690 indirect beneficiaries among urban and rural vulnerable groups. It will
achieve this by (i) increasing physical assets and natural community resources through
completion of construction and rehabilitation works; (ii) enhancing sources of livelihood
through income-generating activities; and (iii) empowering people through earned wages,
capacity building, skills development, and community-institution building. The interventions
will engender employment opportunities, enhance incomes, and reduce food insecurity. The
AF-I1 will open opportunities to people with different social, cultural, and economic standing


                                               11
so they can participate in decision-making on their own development. This will also increase
social capital among the community members, improve the provision of social services,
increase skills among the target beneficiaries, and improve the community's ability to
manage risks at the household level.

32.       Recent reviews identified a few operational challenges. The financial management
and technical supervision need improvement at the district level to ensure effective and
timely support to communities as they implement their subprojects. To address this, TASAF
is deploying its staff from the national and cluster levels to augment the capacities at the
districts and urging the LGAs to engage local service providers to augment the capacity at
that level. Some projects remain incomplete due to price escalation of construction materials,
while some completed subprojects need more resources to have all the required inputs to
make the subprojects functional. TASAF management is currently undertaking a
functionality exercise to determine the scope of the financial implication and appropriate
measures to complete all subprojects and make them fully functional.

33.       The implementation risks of the additional financing are similar to what was
identified for the Original Project. These include limited capacity of the LGAs and
inadequate organizational and technical capacity of communities where intervention will be
scaled up. In the past, these were mitigated through capacity-building interventions and
assistance from the TMU for technical support. The same mitigating measures will be carried
out for AF-11, focusing on the districts targeted through the additional financing. To
overcome these challenges, a strong link will be forged between communities, public sector
agencies, civil society organizations, and the private sector working in natural resources
management. The TMU will provide technical backstopping and ensure that the handbooks
are simplified and copies of the Operational Manual are available to communities. These
manuals (translated into the local Swahili language) are already in place (See Annex 4 for the
Risk Identification Worksheet). Extensive sensitization on the project rollout activities will be
conducted to ensure a level playing field for successful subproject implementation in the 25
districts which are additional to the 42 covered by the AF-I.

VII.   FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE ADDITIONAL
       FINANCING

34.      The additional financing will take the form of IDA Credit on standard terms of 10
years' grace period and 40 years' maturity.




                                               12
Annex 1: Revised Results Framework and Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements

     Table A1.1: Results Framework

                                                                                                                  Project


                                                                                                   2013)



                                                                                              ts   and incl m generating
                                                                                                             e

     1 .Number of people with                                                                                    Document
      access to:                                                                                                contribution
      (i) Basic package of healthg     6,146,533              10,388,861        10,449,859    10,449,859             to
      (ii)Improved water sources         350,000               1,284,461         1,310,256     1,310,256        MKUKUTA
      (iii) Improved Sanitation                0                 879,583           889,250       889,250         indicator
      (iv) All-season Roads              612,000               2,240,591         2,688,822     2,823,263           target
      (v) Irrigation                      33,000                 201,587           247,105       248,291
      (vi) Markets                        48,000                 325,500           348,115       348, I82

     2.Student classroom ratio (in
       targeted areas)
                                             70:l      I            45: 1             45: 1            45: 1

     3.Increase in income of                                                           5 Yo             5Yo
       targeted vulnerable
       beneficiaries (%)
     1 Person-days provided in
      .                                5 4 3 1,992            14,822,080       16,813,797     17,833,797
        labor intensive public
        works program (number)
     5 . Citizens satisfied with the         78%                    85%               85%              85%
        delivery of basic social
        services (YO)
     5. Direct Project Beneficiaries
        (Number)" (IDAIS)              7,192,269              16,198,355       16,888,328     17,044,066

     Df which YOFemale
                                               54                     55                55                 55


*EOP = End of Project




     For indicator I(i) to (iii) target values will not change as no new subprojects will be funded.
lo    Figures will be made available when the study is completed.
I'    This figure includes SP, VG and CB-CCT beneficiaries


                                                           13
                                                 i
intermediate Outcome
Indicators

1.1 Communities receiving        1,483   6,037   6,500           6,967     Assess impact of
  subproject grants (number)                                               assets created o n
                                                 6,500           6,967    improved services;
I .2 Community Management        1,940   6,037
                                                                              and review
   Committees for Service Poor
                                                                             sustainability
   and Food Insecure
                                                                               strategies
   beneficiaries who have at
   least 50% of elected women
   (number)
1.3 Subprojects with             90%     95%
  permanent maintenance
  mechanism in place (%)
1.4 Health facilities             312     843
  constructed, renovated
  and/or equipped (IDA15)




                                                 T
  (number)
1.5 Additional classrooms        2,586   9,210   9,210           10,306
  built and/or rehabilitated
  (IDAIS) (number)
1.6 Other facilities built
  and/or rehabilitated for
  improved learning
  environment (IDAI 5)
  (number)
(i) Hostel/dormitory                13    121
(ii) Laboratory                     18    148     148             148
(iii) Library                       0      5       5               5
(iv) Administration block          26     177     177        '    177
(v) Staff office;                 468     608     608             608
(vi) Teachers' house              335     475     475             475
1.7 Markets rehabilitated/          16    70      70     1        70
  constructed (number)
1.8 Roads rehabilitated/         2,174   5,245   5,295   I       5,325
  constructed (km)
1.9 Irrigation systems
  constructed (number)
                                    11    51
                                                  I1O    I        123
1. I O Hectares of land
  conserved in target areas
                                     0    500
                                                 49000   I       4,000




                                         14
1.1 1 Improved water sources                           1,754   I               1,800   I     1,800    I
                                                                                       1              I
      constructed or rehabilitated
1.12 Vulnerable individual
   getting support (number)
                                          2,736
                                                    8713772    I            932,339        932,450

1.13 ShweofPWPwage                         40%
   biiVtotal subproject cost (%)
I. 14 Beneficiaries of public
    works program                        113,414    217,315    1            238,635    1   238,635    I
Men                                      60,000     114,124                 124,900        124,900
Women                                    53,414
1.15 Beneficiaries of Conditional             0


                                                                                       I              1
   Cash Transfer (CCT)
   (number )
2.1 Individuals participating in
    community savings
    (number)
                                              0
                                                     229192    I             33,600         33,,600        Assess impact of
                                                                                                          individual skills on
                                                                                                              emciency of
                                                                                                               subprojects
2.2 Communities' satisfaction                 0        90%                     85%            85%
    with support provided by                                                                              implementation by
    LGAs/CMO (%)I2                                                                                         communities and
                                                                                                          institutions; review
2.3 Trained trainers facihating             732       5,522                                                 effectiveness of
    the LGAs and communities                                                                                 public-private


                                                                                       1              1
    on subproject cycle                                                                                     partnerships in
    management (number)                                                                                      responding to
2.4 Trained Community                    22,687     137,784                 142,000        142,284         community needs
    Management Committee
    members in subproject

                                                               I                       I
    implementation (number)
2.5 O&M committees members
    trained (number)                 I        o      51,207                  50,000
                                                                                           549000     I
2.6 Subprojects completed
    according to design
    (number)
                                          1,483       3,490

                                                                              6'ooo    1     7'300    I
2.7 Subprojects completed
    within time of subproject
    cycle (number)
                                          1,483       3,490

                                                                              5'500    I     6'958    I



  This indicator is captured using Community Score Card. With the inadequate support from LGAs the target value for
EOP 2013 has been maintained at 85%
                                                        15
-
3


     0
r.
3    k-
     e    z
          00

     2
-

.-
w
n
I




r

3



-    %
     c
          E
h
0    m    00
     P
     n
     I


-
.-
E
e n
%-




-

      z   2
 w


      c   2
w
-


w
-

 In
 In




      z   2


 n
 I




-

 w    z
      f   f


 n
 n




          P
          c1
              -
i             i
3
E=
;F            ;E
              Is,      3
                       E
2             i




                  n

 I
     c
     N
     c        5        f
                            0
                            OD
                            e

 3
 r
     -        -        -

                  x    s
     c            IC
                  0    0    0

     P                      s
                            c

 3
 W
 0


 r




                       0
     2
     r                 Q

                       r
                       N


     -                 -

                       z:
                       0
     r
     P                 c




          F            0
                        .
                       u)
                       0




     m
     (D                0




     -                 -
     W
     0                 0




                       -
                       0
    i   i




                 i




            N

            J
            N        c    M
                          2
                                a
                                -
                                r
                                f
                                 .



                     $2
                     m




    0
            B
            r
            c
            N
                     s
                     m
                          B
                          I -
                          n
                                5-
                                I
                                Wn




                     $2   R.
                          -
                                t
                                c?
                     0)
                          c)    ct




                          t      C
                                -f
.
-
h
W

W
    0   0            0
                          r
                          c




    0   0        0




            .-
             C
            3
            In
            OD




D

            x
0


2      2
       0    0




2
%-
       OD   m
            OD

       *
       '4   n
            W.




2
%-




:-     5
In     In

            2
            In

n




-4-
            P
            %-




0
       P
      ' n
       F
            P
            %-
                  Annex 2: Support for the Food-Insecure Group of Beneficiaries


1.      The Food-Insecure (FI) beneficiary group is one of the three groups under the National Village
Fund component in TASAF-11. This subcomponent is designed to specifically provide an effective
safety net for poor persons with limited employment opportunities.

2.      The objectives of supporting this beneficiary group are to increase their cash income, enhance
their skills and opportunities for future employment so they can improve their food security and other
basic needs, and prevent them from falling even deeper into poverty. The interventions supporting the
FI beneficiaries will promote labor-intensive activities that provide jobs for the poor and, in the
process, create or improve community assets.

3.     The following principles will guide the interventions for this beneficiary group:
       a) Making poverty ranking the main instrumentfor targeting. The ranking will give weight
          to communities with: (i) low literacy rates and a high share of children who drop out of
          school; (ii) a high percentage of female-headed households and a marked lack of job
          opportunities; and (iii) a high incidence of shocks, such as seasonal droughts and crop
          failures (with their resulting food shortages), and other disasters. Additional criteria that are
          important for targeting communities in Mainland and Zanzibar Island districts include (iv)
          inaccessibilityhemoteness; (v) whether the communities are persistently short of food; and
          (vi) whether they lack access to cash income.
       b) Having subprojects promote labor-intensive technologies, with at least 50 percent of the
          subproject budget allocated for wages for unskilled labor.
       c) Protecting prevailing employment opportunities in targeted areas by paying less than the
          average wage in the area (a self-targeting wage that is 10 percent less than the prevailing
          market wage rate for unskilled labor).
       d) Adhering to sectoral work norms and technical standards in all subproject activities.
       e) Complying with safeguardpolicies.
       f ) Implementing within local government structures.
       g) Creating active community participation in identifying subprojects, targeting beneficiaries,
          and implementing the subsequent subproject activities.
       h) Ensuring gender inclusiveness.

4.     Food insecurity. Locally grown crops are the major source of food in Tanzania. Food security
among rural and urban households is generally stable in the aggregate term nationwide, and a variety
of food is available in local markets. Even so, pockets of food insecure areas exist. Food prices remain
higher than the five-year average and higher than last year's prices. These high prices continue to
constrain access to food, particularly among households that greatly depend on buying their goods in
the market. As food prices begin to rise again, which typically occurs between September and January,
these poor, market-dependent populations face increasing pressure, and especially as high
transportation costs and general inflation contribute to higher food prices.


                                                   21
5.      Food insecurity and vulnerability are present everywhere in rural Tanzania, but these problems
vary by region. The central band of the country has the highest proportion of FI households. In regions
such as Dodoma, Singida, and Tabora, 45-55 percent of households are food-insecure. In the Mwanza,
Manyara, and Kagera regions, food insecurity affects 20-30 percent of households. In some areas
traditionally considered food secure, a 2007 survey by the World Food Program found that a large
proportion of the population was in fact food-insecure-notably, 15 percent of households in the
Ruvuma and Iringa regions. The most food-insecure and vulnerable groups are: (i) groups with low
incomes, mainly derived from food crop production; (ii) small-scale farmers, whose income comes
mostly from subsistence food production; (iii) wage laborers, whose income is from agriculture or
unskilled labor; (iv) people who rely.on remittances and grow food crops as well; and (v) people who
rely mainly on growing food crops but supplement their income by selling natural resources,

6.      Rapid Vulnerability Assessment. Based on the Rapid Vulnerability Assessment carried out in
October 2009, 61 districts on the Mainland and Pemba and Unguja in Zanzibar, which are widely
viewed as food-insecure, were selected for the intervention under TASAF Additional Financing in the
first year of the Project (see Table 2A.1). Within each district and community, households will be
selected for participation in the public works program and safety net schemes on the basis of criteria
developed for this purpose.

7.      Targeting and selection criteria. Within a district, a target group consists of poor households
with able-bodied persons. As noted, these households share many characteristics. They have high
levels of illiteracy, are often headed by women, and lack job opportunities. The children often must
drop out of school, and the household is affected by shocks such as natural disasters (droughts,
earthquakes, and floods) and crop failure. The procedure for selecting eligible households will be
based on the subproject interest forms, which demonstrate community interest in initiating a
subproject. The Village Fund coordinator will sort and compile the forms by sector for presentation to
the TASAF Management Team for review, targeting, and decision by E-PRA. The targeting of
resources within an LGA will be guided by poverty and service coverage indicators as well as by
community demands in line with their capacities. Interested communities will be notified if an E-PRA
team will be deployed from the district.

8.     The community members targeted under public works investments will identify the FI
households among them (using a participatory process using the wealth-ranking tool). Targeting will
also occur through the self-targeting wage rate discussed previously. Female-headed households and
youth groups will be particularly taken into consideration.

9.      LGAs will target local areas for funding based on chronic food insecurity, poor access to
services, and conformity to the guiding principles discussed in paragraph 3. Subprojects will be
appraised by the LGA and approved by the Village Council or LGA, depending on the NVF
contribution. The CMCs will manage implementation with the support of a local service provider,
while technical supervision will be carried out by the Village Council, LGA, and (at the national level)
by the TASAF Management Unit.


10.    Service packages. Potential service packages to be funded under the AF-I1 will include:
       a) Works that conserve and restore the natural resource basefor livelihoods, includingfood
          production, such as water-shed restoration, reforesting degraded areas, setting wind breaks,

                                                  22
           stabilizing gullies, constructing dykes in flood-prone areas and setting up waste disposal
           pits.
           Water retention structures like community earth dams and structures adapted for fish
           breeding and small-scale irrigation.
           Economic infrastructure, including community markets with associated facilities such as
           water supply, storm water drainage, waste disposal pits, and latrines.
           Improved accessibility to marketplaces, health centers, schools, and other social services,
           including community earthlgravel roads with associated small structures like culverts,
           footbridges, and drifts.

 I 1.   Degraded natural resources and reduced biodiversity directly threaten food supplies and the
incomes of FI people, unleashing a vicious cycle of poverty, environmental degradation, and hunger.
Some agricultural practices harm soils, biodiversity, and water resources-for example, land clearing
and mono-cropping negatively affect biodiversity. Poverty and population pressure fuel deforestation
and overharvesting of vegetation. To reduce hunger and malnutrition, it is vital to explicitly integrate
agricultural production, soil conservation, and nutritional goals to the greatest possible extent. Given
the rationale for the AF-11, the public works program will focus on ways of coping with risks and
disasters that can cause food insecurity. Investments to sustain the natural resources that are essential
to food security generate important synergies with other actions to reduce food insecurity. Natural
resource management enhances biodiversity and raises agricultural production and productivity by
increasing the supply of natural inputs. Such investments improve the availability of micronutrients
while reducing the impact of natural climatic risks and disasters on food security.

12. Monitoring. The LGMsland technical staff and the TMU conduct monitoring to ensure that
intended objectives are achieved within the set time frame in the subproject management cycle. A format
provided in the Community Subproject Management Handbook requests specific information on physical
progress and the corresponding expenditures, and compares them with the original plan. Additional
information for monitoring includes:
       0   Adherence to planned cash transfers to the beneficiaries with the set gender balance.
       0   Adherence to technical standards and work norms as per sector ministries' specifications.
           Impact assessment in regard to poverty alleviation.
       0    Value of the asset created (to assess whether the undertaking is cost-effective).
13.      Synergies with other interventions. GOT has other rural and urban programs that are aimed at
improving the livelihoods of the poor. These interventions are managed under different sectors and
institutions, but most make efforts to reach the vulnerable and food-insecure groups. TASAF-11,
through LGAs, has a depth of experience in working with these sector institutions and their programs,
and at times manages their interventions through a ring-fenced financing arrangement. In all these
cases, an effort is made to combine these sector-led programs with TASAF-I1 interventions so that
benefits to the target beneficiaries are maximized. AF-I1 will continue this tradition and make a special
effort to coordinate with other programs, particularly with the Accelerated Food Security Project. This
project aims to contribute to higher food production and productivity by improving farmers' access to
critical agricultural inputs. The food-insecure farmers participating in the public works program
activities will earn wages and they might decide to use the income they get to access subsidized
agricultural inputs through the National Agricultural Inputs Voucher scheme.

                                                   23
                                                                  1 1 re:
               Table A2.1: Food-Insecure Districts in the Mainland and Zanzibar

                                                    iew list of Regions and Districts




                                                                                            1
Region                                              Region       I Numberof I District
                                                       -           Districts
Arusha                                     1        Arusha                    Lon ido

                                                                               Monduli
                                                                             I Ngorongoro   I
   Subtotal          4
Lindi                        Kilwa
                             Lindi Tc
                             Lindi DC
                             Liwale
                             Nachingwea

Subtotal
Kil imanjaro

                             Rombo



Subtotal             3
Manyara                      Babati Dc     4
                             Kiteto
                             Hanang
                             Mbulu
                             Simanjiro
  Subtotal           5
Mara                         Bunda



                                                     I,
                                                    ---
                             Rorya
                             Musoma                                           Musoma

  Subtotal                                             Subtotal
Mor ogoro                    Morogoro


                                                                                            I
                                                                             3
                             Mvomero                                          Kilosa

                                                                              Shinyanga

                                                                              Kishapu
                                                                              Maswa
                                                                              Meatu
                                                                              Shinyanga
               I           H                                                  DC
                                                                              Kahama
   Subtotal    I     4                                 Subtotal       6

                                               24
                        Kibaha DC
                        Mafia




                   2
                                           Mtwara                  Masasi
                        Nanvumbu                                   Nanyumbu
        Subtotal   n


11   Tanga                                                         Handeni
                                                                   Kilindi
                                                                   Korogwe V
                                                                   Lushoto


        Subtotal   6                 -                             Bahi
                                     12    Dodoma
                                                                   Chamwino
                                                                   Kondoa
                                                                   Kongwa
                                                      I            MDwaDwa




                                     -
                                     17
                                     -
                        Unguia       -
                                     18

                        _1
                                 '




                   2    Pemba              Subtotal   I   2    I               I
                   42                      TOTAL      1   63




                                      25
                              Annex 3: Support for Vulnerable Groups

1.     Objective. The main objective of the support provided to vulnerable groups is to empower
them and their foster families to manage subprojects that will enable them to respond to vulnerability
associated with different risks and shocks and thus improve their quality of life and social well-being.
The specific objectives are to: (i) support sustainable income-generating activities for vulnerable
groups through financial grants and technical resources, and (ii) increase the capacity of vulnerable
groups to cope with and mitigate risk. The following principles will guide the selection and
implementation of subprojects:

    a) Subprojects will be supported if they are in line with the sector norms and standards listed in
       the community service packages.
    b) Funds will not be used to make transfers for immediate consumption-for example, buying
       food, paying school fees, and buying clothes, except in the case of CB-CCT.
    c) Subprojects to be funded will be selected by the beneficiaries (target group).
    d) Income-generating subprojects will be financed if they are projected to break even within five
       years, (In other words, if the subproject will have recovered all of the money invested over the
       first five years and continue to generate a profit.)
    e) Women and men must participate equally in managing subprojects.
    f ) Transparency and accountability are required in all activities and operations.
   g) Beneficiaries and community members must participate effectively in designing and
      implementing subprojects.
     h) Adherence to the Environmental and Social Management Framework and the Resettlement
        Policy Framework are mandatory.
2.      Targeting and selection criteria. The eligibility of vulnerable persons and foster families
requesting support from the National Village Fund will be assessed once a subproject interest form is
received by the Village Finance Committee and the particular vulnerable group is targeted for E-PRA.
Confirmation of such eligibility will be made in a participatory and transparent manner through
village/Shehia/Mtaa assembly meetings, which will be organized on the first day of the E-PRA. In
selecting the most vulnerable households, food insecurity and inability to meet other basic needs are
the basic criteria. Vulnerable persons to be supported will include orphans, the chronically ill, persons
infected and affected by HIV/AIDS, the elderly, people with disabilities, malnourished children, and
children who head households. Other vulnerable individuals include abandoned children, street
children, widows and widowers, unemployed youth, and single mothers.

3.     Delivery methodology. Subprojects will be appraised by the LGA, and depending on the size
of the NVF contribution, Village Council or LGA will approve them based on vulnerability and
conformity to guiding principles. The CMCs, supported by a local service provider, will manage
implementation. The Village Council and LGA will supervise. At the national level, the TMU will
provide technical backstopping to the LGAs.



                                                   26
4.      Service package. Resources will be provided to vulnerable persons and foster families for
increasing their household income. The service packages defined by respective sector ministries will
guide communities on the kinds of activities that are eligible for support. Examples of typical
community subprojects to be supported include: alternative income-generating activities based on
fisheries, agriculture and raising livestock; and training in carpentry, masonry, tailoring, and other
vocational skills, as well as the provision of start-up kits.

5.      Monitoring. The LGNIsland technical staff and the TASAF Management Unit monitor to
ensure that the intended objectives are achieved within the set time frame. The format in the
Community Subproject Management handbook specifies the information required on physical progress
and corresponding expenditures for comparison against the original plan. Additional monitoring
information includes: (i) verification of the existence of the operation and maintenance plans to ensure
sustainability; (ii) adherence to technical standards and work norms as per sector ministries'
specifications; (iii) an assessment of impacts with respect to poverty alleviation; and (iv) the
availability of markets for the products and the potential to break even.




                                                  27
                                    Annex 4: Risk Assessment
                          Risk Identification Worksheet Appraisal Stage

Risk                                        Risk b h g a t i o n Measure

Capacity development         H       i) Extensive simplification of handbooks    M
in LGAs is too low to                and operational manual with resources
adequately respond to                to support capacity-building work is
community demands                    ongoing
                                     ii) TASAF is deploying staff from
                                     national and cluster levels to augment
                                     LGA capacities
                                     iii) TASAF will conduct extensive
                                     technical workshops to level ground for
                                     implementation
Village Councils fail        N       i) Disbursement of funds split between      N
to become accountable                Village Councils and CMCs and
to the Village                       resources available for capacity
Assemblies over use of               building.
resources                            ii) Use of community scorecards to
                                     enhance the governance and
                                     accountability structure
CMCs continue to            M        CMCs only receive fbnds once the            N
resist being fully                   Village Councils approve subprojects
accountable to Village               and reports on the accounts
Councils
Local service               M        The menu for local service providers        M
providers are not                    has been widened to include non-
readily available to                 governmental organizations,
meet demand for                      community-based organizations, and
subprojects needing                  skilled individual consultants and firms
support
Government                  N        Under the President's Office, TASAF         N
counterpart funds are                has a budget line in government
not available on time                expenditure schedules from the Ministry
                                     of Finance
Implementation of            S       Clear division of responsibilities          M
decentralization in the              between LGAs (supported under the
:ountry slows down                   Local Government Support Project and
                                     Village Councils (under TASAF-11)
Overall risk rating         M                                                    M
Note: Risk rating H (High), S (Substantial), M (Modest), N (Negligible or Low)



                                                 28
     Annex 5: Summary of Components Financed by the Original Project, First and Second
                                Additional Financing




c
                        Original Project         Additional Financing           Second Additional Funding
                       - CreditUS$129
                  ~~




                                               Credit US$30 million             Credit US$35 million
                          million
                       - Grant US$21
                          million

Components             -   National Village       -        National Village        -       National Village Fund
Supported                  Fund                            Fund                    -       Capacity Enhancement
                       -   Capacity               -        Capacity
                           Enhancement                     Enhancement



Beneficiaries          -   Food-insecure          -        Food-insecure           -       Food-insecure

                       -   Vulnerable groups      -        Vulnerable groups,      -       Vulnerable groups.
                                                           including CCT                   (CCT not included)
                                                           beneficiaries

                       -   Service-poor                                            -       Service-poor
                           communities                                                     communities


Coverage        Nationwide                     Districts targeted yearly           -       Districts targeted
                                               using Food Vulnerability                    yearly using Food
                                               Assessment reports                          Vulnerability
                                                                                           Assessment reports
                                                                                   -       Districts with recent
                                                                                           disasters (floods and
                                                                                           flash floods)
                                                                                   -       Selected districts
                                                                                           targeted with the
                                                                                       ,   Voucher Scheme
                                                                                           under the Accelerated
                                                                                           Food Security Project
                                                                                   -       Districts with
                                                                                           incomplete subprojects




                                                      29
                   Annex 6: TASAF NSC Composition, Original and Current

Position          NSC Composition at Start of            Current NSC Composition
                  Project
Chair             PS, Prime Minister's Office         I  PS, Prime Minister's Office           I
                                                       1 Executive Director for TASAF          1
                                                                                          ~~




Secretary         Executive Director for TASAF
Representatives   Planning Commissioner in the           Ministry o f Agriculture Food
                  President's Ofice                      Security and Cooperatives (1)
                  Ministry of Finance and Economic
                  Affairs (1)
                  Ministry of Community
                                                      I  Ministry of Finance and Economic
                                                        `Affairs(1)
                                                         Ministry of Community
                  Development, Gender, and Children Development, Gender, and
                  (1)                                    Children (1)                          I
                  Prime Minister's Office Regional       Prime Minister's Office Regional
                  Administration and Local               Administration and Local
                  Government (1)                         Government (1)
                  President's Offices, State House (1) President's Offices, State House (1)
                  Ministry of Labor and Youth            Ministry of Labor
                  Development (1)                        Employment and Youth
                                                         Development (1)
                  1 x Regional Administration (1)     1 Regional Administration (1)            I
                                                          Tanzania Association of




                  Chief Minister's Office (2)             Chief Minister's Office (2)




                                                30
                          Annex 7: Procurement Plan for RF-I1 for FY2010/11

 Details of the Procurement Arrangements Involving International Competition and other
 Methods

 (a) List of consulting assignments with short-list of international firms and other selection methods.

  Table 7A.1: Consulting Services

     1          12             13              14            5             6            17

     Ref.        Description    Estimated       Selection    Review   Expected           Comments/
     No.         of             cost US$        Method       by Bank Proposals           Implementin
                 Assignment                                  (Prior / Submission         g Agency
                                                             Post)    Date
     1           AF         I1 500,000          QCBS         Prior    November
                 Impact                                               20,2010
                 evaluation
                 follow up
                 survey

 (b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$200,000 equivalent per contract for firms and
 single-source selection of consultants will be subject to prior review by the Bank. Prior review of the
 evaluation process for individual consultant contracts above US$ 100,000 will be done in exceptional
 cases only (e.g., when hiring consultants for long-term technical assistance or advisory services for the
 duration of the Project).

 (c) Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short lists of consultants for services
 estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of national
 consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

 Table 7A.2: Subprojects

1 Ref. I Category
             - -                                             I EstimatedTotal Amount FY       I
                                                              2010/11 (US $)
 1          Completion and functionality of Subproiects                      20,000,000.00
 2          Food Insecure Households Subprojects                              3,750,000.00
 3          Vulnerable Groups Subprojects                                     2,250,000.00




                                                    31
Table 7A.3: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review

    Expenditure        Contract     Value Procurement/              Contracts Subject to Prior
    Categorv
        Y   ,
                       Threshold(US$)     Selection Method          Review
    Works              >5,000,000         ICB                      /All
                       <5,000,000         NCB                      /None (Post Review) unless
I




                   I                      I                        I
         -
Consulting       ~>100,000                IIC - Qualification      /None (Post Review) unless
Services        -                                                   specified in the PP3.
Individuals (IC) <100,000                     IC - Qualification    None (Post Review)
                       All Values             IC - sss                 All
Subprojects4        >45,000                   Community                All
                                              Participation

NOTES:
General - TOR for all contracts shall be cleared by the Bank
 1.     Shortlists for consultancy services for contracts estimated to be less than US$200,000
equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.      QBS, FBS, and LCS for assignments meeting requirements of paragraphs 3,2, 3.5, and 3.6
respectively of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.      The selection of Individual Consultants will normally be subject to post review. Prior review
will be done in exceptional cases only, e.g., when hiring consultants for long-term technical assistance
or advisory services for the duration of the project and prior review of these contracts will be identified
in the procurement plan.
4.      Procedures for CDD Components Subprojects are as per paragraph 3.17 of the Procurement
Guidelines. Specific subproject thresholds under the National Village Fund Component will be
according to Table 7A.4, with further details in the Project Operational Manual.




                                                      32
Table 7A.4: National Village Fund Revised Subproject Thresholds by Beneficiary Category
                                and by Subproject Type

                                                                                     Ceiling     in
    1. Food Insecure                                                                 USD
Type of subprojects
   I.      Irrigation, earth dams, dykes, stabilization of gullies                      45,000
   ii.     Watershed restoration. reforestation. setting windbreaks                     35.000
   iii.    Fish ponds and valley tanks                                                  25,000
   iv.    Tree nursery                                                                  15,000


   2. Vulnerable Group Support
Type of Subprojects
   1.     Fishing subprojects                                                           20,000
   ii.    Fish farming                                                                  15,000
   iii.   Tailoring, poultry,      horticultural    gardening,       dairy   goat,
          beekeeping                                                                    10,000


   3. Service Poor
Type of subprojects
   1.     Classrooms, dispensary unit, teachers' house                                  45,000
   ii.    Administration block                                                          40,000
   iii.   Boreholes, other water points                                                 25,000




                                                   33
                  Annex 8: Draft Action Plan for Completion of the Outstanding Subprojects

 There are about 1,000 subprojects funded under the National Village Fund component (Part A of the
Project described in the Original Financing Agreement) that were supposed to be completed by February
2010 but still not completed as of March 31, 2010. These subprojects have not been completed for the
following main reasons: a) inability of the Beneficiary Communities to make available the expected
contribution for the Subprojects due to the negative impacts of the financial and food crisis and other
calamities on their livelihoods; b) price escalations for materials and transportation; and c) inadequate
technical capacity of Local Government Authorities to support Beneficiary Communities in the
implementation of the subproject within the Subprojects' cycle benchmarks. As a result, completion of
these Subprojects is necessary in order to achieve the intended outcomes in the targeted communities. To
ensure successful completion of these outstanding activities, the Government *isrequired to submit to the
Association by June 30, 2010 an action planI6, acceptable to the Association, identifying those remaining
activities as well as the proposed actions. The Government will be further required to implement this
action plan by no later than December 3 1,2010.

 Action Plan to Ens re Completion of St
                              '


                                                                                                      Responsible
SN              Issue                   Actions                        Sub-Activities                                   Time

          Delayed
          completion of
                                  Undertake an
                                  engineering
                                                             .   Compile list'of all funded sub
                                                                 projects per district, Ward &
                                                                                                                        frame


          sub-projects            verification of all            village.

                                                             .
                                  infrastructure sub-            Prepare TOR for an                                     June 30,
                                                                 Engineering Verification                TMU
                                  projects with a view                                                                    2010
                                  of ascertaining the            Submit a report to IDA
                                  resources required to
                                  complete sub-projects
                                                             .   Review district subproject

                                                             .
          Subprojects             Ensure adherence to
          under-                  standard Bills of              budgets and costing
          budgeting and           Quantities and unit            Timely production of quarterly
          price                   prices of common               reports and processing of
                                                                 Financial Monitoring Report

                                                             .
          escalations             items

                                  Timely disbursement            Stop financing new
                                  of subproject funds            subprojects except those under                         On going,


                                                             .
                                                                 AFl.                                                     to be
                                                                                                         TMU
                                                                                                                        reviewed
                                                                 Based on the verification                              quarterly
                                                                 report, estimate the cost of
                                                                 completing subprojects and
                                                                 making them functional within
                                                                 the project guidelines

                                                                 Submit a report to IDA
                                                                                                  I                 I
 l6   This is a draft Action Plan which will be finalized with the Government by June 30,2010.


                                                                     34
 SN                                                                                    Responsible   Time-

                                                      .
               Issue              Actions                     Sub-Activities
                                                                                         Entity      frame


                                                      .
3.        Inadequate       Provide quarterly              Prepare and execute
                                                                                                     On going,
          technical        technical                      supervision plan
                                                                                                     to be
          supervision by   backstopping                   Conduct technical
                                                                                                     reviewed
          LGAs             /supervision of                backstopping at all levels   TMU           on
                           district level technical
                                                                                                     quarterly

                                                      .
                           staff
                                                                                                     basis
     4.   Unauthorised     Carry out quarterly            Disseminate standard designs


                                                      .
          change of        inspectiodsupervise            and technical specifications
                                                                                                     On going,
          designs and      the use of standard            to district
                                                                                                     to be
          technical        designs, drawings              Conduct quality assurance at
                                                                                                     reviewed
          specifications   and technical                  stages of sub project          TMU
                                                                                                     on

                                                      .
          at               specifications                 implementation and during
                                                                                                     quarterly
          implementatio                                   completion
                                                                                                     basis

                                                      .
          n stage                                         Augment TMU capacity by
                                                          out sourcing
     5.   Inadequate           Form and train             Unpack O&M and clarify


                                                      .
          attention to         O&M committee              activities and process that
          post                 at sub project             need to be undertaken
                                                                                                     On going,

                           .                          .
          completion           inception                  Form & train O&M
                                                                                                     to be
          activities                                      committees
                                                                                                     reviewed

                                                      .
                               Provide for O&M            Commission completed sub       LGA, TMU
                                                                                                     on
                               in village/                projects                                   quarterly
                               mtdshehia                  Sub project budgets to
                                                                                                     basis
                               budgets                    include provision for O&M


                                                      .
                                                          training and implementation
                                                          of environmental activities
     6.   Inadequate       Increase technical             Assess social and


                                                      .
          monitoring of    support to                     environmental safe guard for
          social and       communities in                 old sub project
                                                                                                     On going,

                                                      .
          environmental    implementation of              Undertake an environmental
                                                                                                     to be
          safeguards       social &                       assessment                                 reviewed
          during           environmental                  Intensify information          LGA, TMU
                                                                                                     on
          implementatio    safeguards                     education and
                                                                                                          I




                                                                                                     quarterly
          n                                               communication campaign on
                                                                                                     basis
                                                          implementation and


                           .                          .
                                                          monitoring of the mitigation
                                                          measures
     7.   Need to
          strengthen
          levels of
                               Conduct Rapid
                               Results Initiative
                               to improve district    .   status
                                                          Publicize district
                                                                                       .
                                                          Update district accountability
                                                                                           TMU
                                                                                                     On going,


                           .                          .
          accountability       accountability             accountability status in the               to be
                               status                     media                                      reviewed
                               Strengthen internal        Constitute a team to visit       GOT       on
                               audit at LGA level         districts with outstanding                 quarterly
                                                          accountabilities                           basis
                                                          Make available internal audit
                                                          staff at LGA level


                                                           35
                     Annex 9: Country at a Glance
 TANZANIA: Second Additional Financing for Second Social Action Fund Project
Tanzania a t a g l a n c e                                                    $3.
                                                                                'G




                                                              35




                                                                   32           .
                                                                               54
                                                                   ...
                                                                   -.-
                                                                   3.1
                                                                   C.


                                                                   -..
                                                                          '    98
                                                                               8.7
                                                                               68
                                                                   5. I        53
                                                                   --D         E,I
                                                                    t5
                                                                   .i          86

                                                                   93          .
                                                                               :
                                                                               5
                                                                   39
                                                                    .          6J




                                     36
 B aiance o f P a y m e n t s a n d T r a d e    2000      2008

 ( U S mi#ons)
 T 0 tal m eroh andlse e wort s (to b)             883      30 70
 Total merohmdiseimports (cif)                    1534     -5887
 Net tradeingoodsmdservices                       -923     -2597

 Currern aocoum balance                           -838     -2333
  as a %ofGDP                                     -10.3     -125
Workers' remittances and
 compensation otemplo~~w-(reoeiptts)                   8        b

Reserves. Including gold                           974      2880

C e n t r a l Gowernment F i n a n c e

p/. o f GDP)
Cuirem revenue (including grams)                   10.8         5
                                                               1 0
 Taxrewcnue                                         95         14 7
Current ewenditure                                  11 1       22 8
                                                                             T e c h n o logy a n d Infra s t r u c t u r e     2000        2007
Overall surplusldefioil                            -5 4        -8 9
                                                                             Paved ro ads (%of total)                              42        86
Highest marglnaltaxrate(%)                                                   Fixedline and mobilhphone
 lndlviduaI                                         30         30             subscribers (per 100 people)                              1      21
 C crpo m e                                         30         30            High teohnologyewons
                                                                              (%of m a nufact ured e v o rt s)                     12          15
ExternalDebt and R e s o u r e e F l o w
                                                                             Environment
( U S minoris)
Total d e h outstandinganddisbursed               7138     5938              Agriouhural land (%of land area)                      38         39
Total d e h seruioe                                l72       82              Forest area(%of landarea)
D@Mrelief (Hfp C ,M D R I)                       2828      2P38              Nationally protected areas (%oiland area)

Tctai d e h (%of GDP )                            79 7         29 Q          F r e s h m e r rerources per capta (cu.m eters)   2,359       2.078
Total debt senrioe (%cf erports)                   2
                                                  1 4            12          Fr e s h m er vjthdraval @i 1 n cu bio m e ers)
                                                                                                         I io         t           52
Foreigndirect imvestmem(netinflo\ne)              483          823           C02 em Issions per oapita (mt)                       0 08       0 12
Porttolfo equky(na2 i n f l o w )                   0               0
                                                                             GDP perunt c f e n e r g y w e
                                                                              (2005PPP 5 perkgofoilequwalent)                      22         21

                                                                             Energyusepercapta @.gofcilequiualern)                397        527


                                                                             World Bank G r o u p p o r t t o t i o             2 000       2007

                                                                             (US$ m i h ns)
                                                                             18R 0
                                                                              Total debt outstanding and disbursed                  n           0
                                                                              D isbursem ems                                        0           0
                                                                              P nncipal repayments                                  4           0
                                                                              Interest payments                                      1          0

                                                                             IDA
                                                                              Total d e h outstanding and disbursed             2.593        1585
                                                                              D i s b u n m oms                                   142        529
P r i w a t e S e c t or D ew e l 0 p m e n t   2000       2008               Total debt servioe                                   24         22

Timerequiredto starta business (days)               -           29           IFC (fhsoelysear)
Cost t o start abusiness (%of GNl pQr oapna)        -          415            Total disbursed and outstandmgponfolio               43         28
Time required10 register propeny(days)              -           73             o f which IFC o m acccum                            43         28
                                                                                                           F
                                                                              0 isbunem ems fo r I C o w account                    8          4
Ranked as ama]orconstraim t o business          2000       2007               P o r t b l i c s a l e s prepaymemsand
 (%of managers surveyed who agreed)                                            repaymentsior IFC o m a c o o u n t                  4               1
  ElecItichq                                         .     729
  Accesstoko~   offinrnoing                          .      93               M IGA
                                                                              Gross ewosure                                       175           0
Stock markbcapitalizatlon (%ofGDP)                 28          38                                                                 172          0
Bank capnalto asset ratlo (%J

Note Figuresinnailos arefor parsotherthanthose specified 2008dataare prelimlnary
 fndtcatesdata are not available -indicateso bservation ISnot applicable

Develcpm em E co nom ics. Developm em Data Gro up (0 EC D 0)




                                                                        37
                                s
 M i l len nium Development Goa I                                                                                                                                T3?2at?ia


Wth selected fargets to achieve betkeen i990 and 20i5
(c3bmate ck sest to date shown, V- 2 years)                                                                                                  Tanzania

Goal 1 halve t h e r a t e s f o r extreme poverty a n d malnutrition
       :                                                                                                                         1990       1995        2000         2007
 Povenyheadoournratio at $125aday(PPP.%ofpopulation)                                                                             72 6                    88 6
 P overty headcount ratio a national povertyline(%of population)
                           t                                                                                                      5? 1                  35 4           33 2
 Share of income or oonsumpion to thepooresl qunitile (%)                                                                                    68
 Preualenceofmalnutnrion(7bofchildrenunder5)                                                                                     28 9       30 6        44 0          38 0

G o a l 2: e n s u r e t h a t c h i l d r e n a r e a b l e t o c o m p l e t e p r i m a r y s c h o o l i n g
 P nrnayschoolenrotlment (net .%)                                                                                                              47         53            99
 Pnrnaycornpleionrate(%ofrelenantagegroup)                                                                                         62                     55            85
 Seoondarysohool enrollment (net.%)                                                                                                    5        5         6             28
 YoUthliteraoyrate (%ofpeople ages15-24)                                                                                                                  77            78

         :
G o a l 3 eliminate gender d i s p a r i t y i n e d u c a t i o n a n d e m p o w e r w o m e n
 Ratio ofgidsto boysin pnrnayandseoortdaryeducation (0                                                                                                                       1
 Women employed lnthenonagriouhural s e e o r (%of nCmgrioukural ernploymem)
 Proponlonofseata held bymmenlnnational parliamern(%)

G o a l 4: r e d u c e u n d e r - 5 m o r t a l i t y b y t w o - t h i r d s
 Under-5 rnortalnyrate (per 1 3 0    10)
                                                                                    I

                                                                                                                                             i3 7        736            91
 Infant monalnyrate(per1PW livebirths)                                                                                                       88          85            68
 M easles irn rnunimion (proportion of o ne-par olds irnrn unizd.%J                                                                           78           78           go

G o a l 5: r e d u c e m a t e r n a l m o r t a l i t y b y t h r e e - f o u r t h s
 Maernal monalnyratlo (modeledenirnate.per10040011ve births)                                                                                             578
 Births attendedbyskilledhealth n a f f (7bo ftotal)                                                                                                      44
 Contraceptive prevdence ( % o f w m e n a g e s 1549)                                                                                                    25            28

G o a l 6: h a l t a n d b e g i n t o r e v e r s e t h e s p r e a d o f H I V / A I D S a n d o t h e r m a j o r d i s e a s e s
 P revalence of H IV (%of po pulatlo n ages 16-48)                                                                                48          74          71           82
 lnoldenoe of tuberculosis (per 100,000people)                                                                                   228         226         238           92
 Tuberculosis cases detected under D OT S @)                                                                                                   81         52            51

G o a l 7: h a l v e t h e p r o p o r t i o n o f p e o p l c w i t h o u t s u s t a i n a b l e a c c e s s t o b a s i c n e e d s
 Acoesstc animprcvedwterscurce(%ofpopulatlon)                                                                                          49    50          53            55
 Acoessto lmprovedsanitation faoilitios & o f population)                                                                              35     35          34            33
 F o rest area (%oft ot al lend area)                                                                                               48 E     44d         42 A,         389
 Natlonallyprotected areas(%cftotal landarea)
 C02ernissionsf.metriotonsperoapna)                                                                                                    01     01          01           0.1
 GDP perunn ofenergyuse(0onnam 2005PPP $ p e r k g o f o l l eqUlValent)                                                              22      22          2.2          2. i

G o a l 9: d e v e l o p a g l o b a l p a r t n e r s h i p f o r d e v e l o p m e n t
 Telephonernainlines(per 100 people)                                                                                                03        03          05            04
 Mobile phonesubsonbers(per100people)                                                                                               on        on          03           208
 Internet users (per 100 people)                                                                                                    on       00           01            1D
 P erronaloomputers(per100 people)                                                                                                           02           03           09




                                                                        ioa


                                                                         75


                                                                         50


                                                                         fi

                                                                          0




Note Figuresmkahcsare for yearsotherthanthose specified                                 rndicatesdalaarenotavarlable

Developm ern Econo mics, D evelo prn ent Data Group (DECD G)




                                                                                                 38
 Millennium Development Goals                                                                                                                         Tanzania


Wih      selected targets to ach!eve between                              I990 and 2 0 f 5
(estimate c b s e s t t o dateshown, U-Zyears)


G o a l 1 h a l v e t h e ratesforextrrmepovertyandmalnu(rition
         :                                                                                                                 199 0   1995      2000         2007
 P oueny h e ~ e c o u m  ratio at $125 aoay(PP P . X o t p o p d i a ~ o n )                                              72 6                88 5
 Poverty heaJcoLm ratic at natlonal povertyIine(%of popdlnqon)                                                              511               35 4          332
 Share o f income or consumptionto tnepocres! qUnitie (%)                                                                           68
 Prevalence o t n d ~ n t i o n ( % o t c h l c r e n ~ i o e r 5 )                                                        28 9    30 6      44 0          38 0

G o a l 2: e n s u r e t h a t c h i l d r e n a r e a b l e t o c o m p l e t e p r i m a r y s c h o o l i n g
 P nmayschoolenmllment (net. %)                                                                                                       47        53           99
 P rmaycompletlonrare(%ofrelevam age g r o w )                                                                               62                55            85
 Secondary sohool enrollment (net, g                                                                                           5         5      6            28
 Youth Iltemoyrate (%of people ages 15-24)                                                                                                      77           78

G o a l 3: e l i m i n a t e g e n d e r d i s p a r i t y i n e d u c a t i o n a n d e m p o w e r women
 Ratio ofgirlsto boysm pnmayandsecorrdaryeducallon(9(3                                                                                                            1
 Women employed In thenonagrioultwal senor (%of nonagrkukural employment)
 P m ponion o f seats held by w n en In national parliam em (7Q
                                         r

Goal 4 reduce under-5 m o r t a l i t y b y t w o - t h i r d s
 Under-5 monalnyrare (per1ROO)                                                                                              154     13 7       136           91
 lntarn monalnyrate (perlPOO IlvebInPs)                                                                                       88    8s          85          68
 M easles im munirnio n (proportion of o ne-par old5 imm unized. %)                                                           80      78         78          90

G o a l 5: r e d u c e m a t e r n a l mortalitykythree-fourths
 Matemalmonaluyratlo f-nodeled enlmre,per100R00llve births)                                                                                    678
 BulhsattendedbyskilledheafthSaffQLoftotal)                                                                                                     44
 Conlnoeptive prevalence (%of w m e n a g e s 1549)                                                                                             25           28

G o a l 6: h a l t a n d begin t o r e u e r s e t h e s p r e a d o f H l V l A l D S and o t h e r major d i s e a s e s
 P revalenoe ofHIV(%of populationageel5-48)                                                                             4s           74         71           82
 Incidence of tuberculosis (p@r          100.000people)                                                                228          228        238           Q2
 T u b e m u l o s i ~ c a ~ ~ d e t e o underDOTS (9&)
                                         ted                                                                                          e1        52            51

G o a l 7: h a l v e t h e proportion of p e o p l e without s u s t a i n a b l e a c c e s s t o b a s i c needs
 Aocessto anmproved mersoume(%ofpopulatton)                                                                        49               50         53           55
 Aocessto improvedsanitnion facilities (%o f population)                                                           35                35         34           33
 Forest a w a (%of total land area)                                                                              46 S               445        42 1        38 s
 Nationally pmteoted areas (%of total landarea)
 CO2emissioos (metriotonsperoapita)                                                                                01                01        01           01
 GDP perunRofenergyuse(ocns!am 2W5PPP 0 perkgolollequivalent)                                                     22                 22        22           21

Goal 8: develup a global partnership f o r deuelopment
 Telephonemainlines(per 100 people)                                                                                          03      03        05           04
 Mobile phonesubscnbers(per 1Wpeople)                                                                                        OD      OD        03          20 B
 Internet users (per 100 people)                                                                                             OD     00          01           ID
 P ersonal oomputers(per 100 people)                                                                                                02         03           09




                                                      m
      - a - ~ r j o f ~ ~ ~ a m s m ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ c m ~ E Tt ~( ~                              W      mauo+a)i.m     A ~ U
                MiCllar




                                                                                                                                                         1/29/10




                                                                                                 39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 33494R1



                                                                                                    TA N Z A N I A
                                                      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                       MAIN ROADS

                                                      PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                               RAILROADS

                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                                      RIVERS                                                                                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES



                          30E                                      32E                                 34E                                      36E                            This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                   shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                     To                                                            endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
0                                                                                                                 Tororo                                                                                                                                    0
                                                             To
                             GAN DA
                           U GAND A                        Kampala

                               To
                             Kampala
                                                                                    Lake
                                                                                                                                                         To
                                          Ka
                                            ge r
                                                a                             Victoria                                                                  Nakuru                                           K E N YA
                                                                    Bukoba                 Musoma                    Mara                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                        Nakuru
                                                     Buoen
                       RWANDA KAGERA                                                                          MARA
2S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2S
                                                                                                                                                 Lake
                                                                             Mwanza                                                            Natron
     T
     T
     To




                                                                       M WA N Z A                             Simi
                                                                                                                  yu
        Ka




                                                                                                                                             A R U S H A Kilimanjaro
           ma




                                                                                                                                                           (5895 m)
            a
            a




                                                                                                                                                                                   Moshi
                       BURUNDI                                                                                                                           Arusha                                                                    To
DEM. REP. O F CO NGO
          OF CONGO




                                                                             Yalova                                        Lake                                                                                                Malindi
                                                    Mo
                                                    M




                                                             S H I N YA N G A                                             Eyasi                     Lake
                                                       yow
                                                       y




                                          Kibondo




                                                                                                                                                                                  Pa
                                                                                                                                                                                  P
                                                                                                Shinyanga e                                         Manyara
                                                                                                                                                                                           KILIMANJARO




                                                                                                                                                                                    n ga
                                                                                                         p
                                                           o si




                                                                                                                                                                                      g
                                                                      Kahama
                                                             s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4S




                                                                                                                                                                                     ni
                                                                                                              ep




                                                                                                                                                                                      i
                                                                                           Nzega                                                   Babati                             Same
                                                                                                         St




                                                                                                                                                                          sa
                                                                                                                                                                       Masai
                             KIGOMA                                                                                                                                                                                                               PEMBA
                                                                                                     e




                                                                                                                                                                       Steppe
                                                                                                                                                                       St
                                                                                                    er




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NORTH
                                 Kasulu
                                                                                                                                                                    MANYARA
                                                                                                mb




                         Kigoma                                                                                Singida                             Kondoa
                                                                  Kaliua                                                                                                                                                                           PEMBA
                                                                                      Tabora
                                                                                            Iwe




                                                                                                               SINGIDA                                                                                                                  Wete       SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Tanga
                                                                                                                                                                                                TA N G A                                Mkoani ZANZIBAR
                                                                    TA B O R A
                           Lake                           Ugalla                                                                   Manyoni                                                                                                        NORTH

                           Tanganyika                                                                                                              DODOMA                                      ts.                      Mkokotoni                 ZANZIBAR
                                                                                                                                                                                           M                                                      SOUTH &
                                                                                                                                                                                     u                         Zanzibar Koani                     CENTRAL
                                                                                                                                                                                  ur
                                                                                                                                                                                                  i
                                                                                                                                                                                                am



                                    Mpanda
                                                                                                                                             D O D O M A Ng                                                                                       ZANZIBAR
                                                                                                                                                                                               W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                 Morogoro                      Kibaha
                                            R U K WA                                                                                                                                                                           Dar es Salaam
                                                                       Rung
                                                                            wa                                                                           Grea          MOROGORO
                                                                                                                                                                       MO ROGORO                                                     DAR ES SALAAM
                                                                                                                                                             t
                                                                                                                                                                      Rua
                                                                                                                                                                         ha
                                                                                                                                                                                                               P WA N I
                                                                              Lake                                                                Iringa
                                     Sumbawanga                               Rukwa    M B E YA                      e
8S                                                                                                             ng                  IRINGA                                                                 Utete                                            8S
                                                                                                          Ra
                                                                                                                                                              ro
                                                                    Mpui
                                                                                                    ya                                                                                                                                  IN DI AN
                                                                                                                                                                                              ji




                                                                                                e
                                                                                                                                                                                           ufi
                                                                                                                                                         be




                                                                                           Mb
                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                    Kilom




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Kilwa
                                                                                      Mbeya                                                                                                                    du                   Kivinje
                                                                                                                                                                                                           t an
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ma
                                                                                      Tunduma                   Ki
                                                                                                                     pe           Njombe                                                                                                O CE AN
                                                          To
                                                        Kasama                                                            n                                                                          LINDI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ur u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  mk
                                                                                                                          ge
                                                                                                                          ge




                                                                                                                                                                                                                be                       Lindi
                                                                                                                              re




10S                                                                                                                                                                                                           M                                           10S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mtwara
                                                                                                                                   Ra




                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                     n
                                                                                                                                     ng




                                                                           Kasama
                         A MB IA
                       Z AM B I A
                                                                                                                                       e




                                                                                                                                                 Songea                                                               Masasi
                                                                                                         To
                                                                                TANZANIA Kasungu                                                                                                          MTWARA
                                                                                                  Lake                                          RUVUMA                                                                a
                                                                                                                                                                                         Tunduru                  vum
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ru
                                                                                                Malawi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Chire
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12S
                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                  Lichinga
                                                                                                                                                                   Marrupa        MO ZA MBIQ UE
                                                                                                                                                                                  MOZAM BI QUE
                                                                                                                                                                             0       50            100   150     200 Kilometers



                                                                    32E                                 34E                                      36E                      0                 50         100             150 Miles       40E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NOVEMBER 2007
