Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
RqWt N. P-4191-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 12.0 MILLION
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
t
November 25, 1985
Ths d.emt km a re.icim dhftIo  d _iy be mo by recipket ody in the performance of
dmir Scia dlek  Is ma.t s ma_  ma othewlse be disedWd ih   Word Bank authociEntieon



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yemeni rial (YI1)
Calendar year 1984                      October 1985
$1 =  YRIs 5.35                       $1  -  YRls 6.48
Yu. 1. =  $0.19                        Yf1 11   =  $0.1
YAR FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBiREVIAXIONS
orc         District Training Center
.ERI)C      Educational Research and Development Center
FRG         Federal Repuolic of Germany
GTZ         Deutscfte Geseltsctiaft fur rechnische Zusasmenarbeit
M4E         Hinistry of Education
iiTBr       National Technical Training Board
PCR         Project Completion Report
PPAR        ?roject Performance Audit Report
PTTI        Primary reacher Training Institutes
iBU         School gailding Unit
TA          Technical Assistance
-CEVT      rTchnical Education aad Vocational rraining
rss         Technical Secondary School
vTc         Vocational Training Center



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Yemen Arab Republic
Technical Training Project
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:              Yemen Arab Republic (YAC).
Amount:                Special Drawing Rights 12.0 million
(approximately $12.7 million equivalent at
negotiations).
Terms:                 Standard.
Project Description:   The proposed project would assist the YAR Government
to implement priority programs in technical education
and vocational training in order to alleviate acute
shortages of manpoVer at the technician and stilled
sorter levels. It would also provide the Government
for the first time witk the capability of training
tectnical vocational instructors. Moreover, the
proposed project would systematize and rationalize
technical education and vocational training programs
through the establishment of a National Technical
Training Board (NTTB). Specifically, the proposed
project would: (i) establish a two-year
post-secondary polytechnic in Sanaa; Cii) establish a
technical secondary school in Hodeidatt; (iii) replace
two workshops and re-equip the tecnnical secondary
school in Sanaa; Civ) relocate an existing vocational
training center in Taiz; (v) establish an instructor
training program at the proposed polytechnic in
Sanaa; and (vi) provide expert services for the above
and assist the Government in establishing the NTTB.
Benefits:              The proposed project would assist in alleviating
acute shortages of trained technicians and skilled
workers by adding some 450 trained workers to the
annual supply. It would reduce both the need for
overseas training of Yemenis and the cost of hiring
expatriate instructors by providing about 35 Yemeni
vocational/technical instructors annually. The
project would also improve access to training for
lower income groups who traditionally enroll in
vocational trainiag and technical education
programs. It is expected that 1OX of the enrollment
will be females. The new curriculum materials to be
developed under the project would be disseminated to
all the technical training centers in YAR thereby
improving the quality of such training throughout the
country.
Thi  document has a resritd disnibution and nay be used by redpients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its cornetis may not otherwise be disclosed without world Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Risks:     t    here are no significant risrcs with the possible
exception of the NTTh's ability to translate policy
decisions into action programs. ilowever, unlice the
previous coordinating entity, the MSTB will have a
permanent, full-time staff, thereby minimizing this
risk.
Estimated Cost
(Project costs are exempted                    Local     Foreign       Total
Erom customs duties and taxes)                   -         milli on-
A. Construction, Furniture and
Equipment For:
Polytechnic                                 2.7        4.9          7.6
Technical Secondary School                  1.5        2.1          3.6
Vocational Training Center                  1.7        2.6          4.3
B. Extension and Re-equipment of:
Technical Secondary School                  0.2        0.7          0.9
C. Technical Assistance                         0.8        3.4          4.2
BASE COST                                   6.9       13.7         20.6
Physical contingencies                        0.o        1.2          1.9
Price contingencies                           1.9        3.7          5.6
Total contingencies                           2.6        4.9          7.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST                          9.5       18.6         28.1
Financing Plan:
Government                                    8.2        0.0          8.2
IDA                                           0.0       12.7         12.7
Other External Sources (FRG)                  1.3        5.9          7.2
Total                                         9.5       18.6         28.1
Estimated Disbursement  IDA FY  1986  1987  1988  L989  1990  1991   1992   1993
of IDA Credit:                                      t million
Annual                          0.5   0.5   2.2   3.2   3.7   1.7    0.7    0.2
Cumulative                      0.5   1.0   3.2   6.4  10.1  11.8   12.5   12.7
Estimated Completion Date:    June 30, 1992
Rate of Return:                Sot applicable
StafE Appraisal Report:       Report No. 5724-YAR, dated November 8, 1985.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
A TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing Rights
(SDRs) 12.0 million (approximately US$12.7 million equivalent), on standard
IDA terms, to help finance a Technical Training project. The Federal Republic
of Germany (FRG) is expected to participate in the project's financing with an
amount of about $7.Z million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      A report on domestic resource mobilization (No. 3554-YAR) dated
January 6. 1982 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A Country
Economic Memorandum covering the period 1982-84 has been discussed with the
Government and will be distributed to the Executive Directors shortly. Its
findings are reflected in the following paragraphs. Country data are attached
in Amex 1.
Introduction
3.      Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in its
socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. The
republican government which came to power following the 1962 Revolution
succeeded in establishing within a surprisingly short period of time the
foundations of a modern state. Political integration and the build-up of
public institutions, while maintaining a liberal market orientation, have
provided the basis for rapid development of the public and private sectors.
Under the Three-Year Development Program (1973174-75/76) and the First
Five-Year Plan (1976/77-80/81), the foundations of the country's physical and
social infrastructure were laid and expanded, and first attempts were made at
lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, out of its medieval setting;
industrialization was also started, albeit on a.small scale.
4.      Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced by
the large inflow of remittances and transfers by Yemenis abroad, particularly
workers in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. These are estimated to have
increased from around $65 million in 1971172 to a level that has fluctuated
around $1.2 billion per year between 1977 and 1983. Largely as a result of
these cash inflows, YAR's real per capita GNP has increased sigaificantly over



- I -
the last ten years, reaching an estimated $510 in 1983 (World Bank Atlas
methodology). Although there are no reliable data on income distribution,
there are reasons to believe that the benefits from recent growth have been
widely distributed. Strong family ties ensure that many people benefit from
the increase in incomes.
Recent Developments
5.       In the late seventies, a noticeable deceleration in economic growth
set in mainly because of the leveling off in the inflow of workers'
remittances. The early eighties witnessed a marked deterioration in the
macrofinancial situation, as public investment and associated recurrent
expenditures exceeded the Government's limited resources, and growing imports
resulted in a widening balance of payments deficit. This deterioration was
aggravated by the large reduction in official assistance from neighboring oil
exporting countries, caused by the decline in oil prices and the war in the
Gulf. Yet, inflation continued to be low in 1982 and 1983, mainly because
imports were cheapened by the appreciation of the Yemeni rial against most
currencies except the US dollar. But low inflation was obtained at the cost
of a sharp reduction in foreign reserves.
6.       In 1983 and 1984, the YAR economy slowed down considerably, as a
result of the Government's efforts to cool down the economy and adverse
exogenous factors, namely, the decline in external resources, the severe
earthquake that hit the Dhamar area in December 1982. and the drought that
prevailed over most of the country in 1983 and 1984, cutting the gross output
of cereals by more than half in 1983. However, increased grain imports kept
food availability at a normal level.
7.       In view of the shortage of investible resources, in 1983 the
Government started to scale down its investment targets by tightening
investment priorities, with assistance from IDA. This effort was complemented
by an endeavor to restrain recurrent expenditure growth and to increase tax
revenue. These measures resulted in a significant reduction in the budget
deficit in 1983 and 1984. Yet inflation was significantly higher in 1984,
rising to about 13 percent mainly because of the 30 percent cumulative
devaluation of the Yemeni rial. These devaluations, and the import
restriction measures taken by the Government, resulted in a large decline in
imports and a marked improvement in the balance of payments in 1984. However.
the budget deficit still represented about 26 percent of GDP in 1984 and
official grants, which continued to decrease sharply, are unlikely to return
to their previous high levels. The Government rightly intends to continue its
stabilization program and its efforts to increase domestic resource
mobilization, while maintaining the flexMble exchange rate policy adopted
recently. This should help to continue to improve the external finances and
restore the competitiveness of local production, mainly in agriculture.
8.       Oil was discovered in the eastern part of the country in 1984, and it
seems that exploitable reserves are large enough to justify exports of crude
oil starting possibly in 1989. In the meanwhile, the Government will face the



- 3 -
challenge of continuing its stabilization program while preparing for the oil
era. The level of oil production and revenue could improve significantly
YAR's development prospects.
Major Long Term Issues
9.       Increasing scarcity of water has emerged as a serious issue in YAR,
as a result of the rapid increase in household water consumption and the
development of irrigated agriculture. Recently, the drought has worsened the
situation through drastically lower recharges. The situation is particularly
serious around Sanaa where uncontrolled extraction of groundwater by farmers
has caused a large decline in the water table. A number of initiatives are,
therefore, called for to address these problems: (i) establishing a
comprehensive water resources data base; (ii) improving coordination among the
various agencies operating in the water sector; (iii) introducing legislation
to manage water use; and (iv) strengthening cost recovery policies. At the
request of the Government, IDA is expected to assist the Government in the
area of water resource management, and to provide the required technical
assistance.
10.      Despite the impressive achievements in the development of social
infrastructure, much remains to be done. The adult literacy and school
enrollment rates are still very low; the shortage of skilled and semi-skilled
manpower is an overriding constraint to development and limits the capacity of
the public administration to manage and implement a growing and increasingly
complex development program. Health indicators depict serious problems that
call for an adequate policy framework and substantial efforts and resources to
improve the situation.
11.      YAR's population growth rate is very high, at about 3 percent per
annum, which could affect growth of per capita income and productivity. Also,
rapid population growth would reduce agricultural land per capita to levels
characteristic of overpopulated countries, as agricultural development is
severely constrained by the scarcity of agricultural land and water.
Furthermore, rapid population growth combined with an improvement in the small
(even by developing countries' standards) coverage of YAR population in terms
of social services (e.g., health, education) would imply a heavy burden on the
already stretched Government budget. These adverse consequences of rapid
population growth require that, despite possible cultural constraints, the
Government develop an appropriate policy as soon as possible.
Capital Flows and External Debt
12.      Since the 1962 Revolution, YAR has received large amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifi-
cation as a "least-developed country," most of the aid has been provided in
the form of grants and concessionary loans. Cumulative aid disbursements,
including grants, came to around $3.5 billion by the end of 1984. The
principal donors have been Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates,
Iraq, USSR, USA and the Federal Republic of Germany as well as IDA and the
Arab development funds.



- 4 -
13.      About one-half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and, more recently, for
budget support, primarily from Saudi Arabia. Food aid has been provided
through the World Food Program and by a number of bilateral donors. A
significant part of official grants has been made available in the form of
technical assistance. Given the extreme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR,
this type of aid has high priority and will be needed by the country for many
years to come.
14.      Besides the grants, YAR received sizeable amounts of official loans,
chiefly for the financing of specific projects, with the main emphasis on
roads, agriculture, and utilities. YAR's external public debt outstanding on
December 31, 1984 was estimated at $2,398 million, of which $1,688 million
(about 44 percent of GDP) was disbursed. IDA credits accounted for $193
million or about 11 percent of the total disbursed and outstanding debt
reported. The terms of official loan assistance have been very favorable.
Western European countries have generally charged between 3/4 percent and
2-1/2 percent, while interest rates charged by Arab countries have varied from
0 to 4 percent. Loan maturities range from 3 to 50 years, with an average of
20 years.
15.      Recently, commitments decreased sharply, by about 66 percent in 1983
and 44 percent in 1984, a decline that is related to the depressed oil market
and the repercussions of the Iran-Iraq war. Debt service amounted to $42.5
million in 1983 and $67 million in 1984, hardly more than 5 percent of gross
foreign exchange earnings (including workers' remittances and private
transfers). However, the debt service is projected to increase substantially
over 1986-92, and its budgetary burden could become difficult to bear,
depending on the level of oil production and export revenues. These
developments indicate that YAR would have to rely increasingly on domestic
resource mobilization.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS1'
16.      This credit would be the forty-second to YAR, bringing total IDA
commitments to $407.2 million net of cancellations. The main goals of IDA's
assistance in YAR have been threefold: (a) to develop the basic institutions,
skills and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites for development;
(b) to develop production and income in the dominant productive sector,
agriculture; and (c) to support the Government in its programs to meet basic
needs in rural and urban areas. To achieve these objectives, IDA has extended
thirteen credits ($137.9 million) for agriculture, fisheries and rural
development; fifteen credits ($158.6 million) for infrastructure; six credits
($61.0 million) for education and training; three credits for industry
'  Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report
(P-4005-YAR), dated March 26, 1985, for the Wadi Al Jawf Agricultural
Development Credit approved by the Executive Directors on April 23, 1985.



($22.0 million); one credit for petroleum and geothermal promotion and
exploration ($2 million); a $10.5 million credit to strengthen and expand the
capability of the Ministry of Health to plan, staff and manage the country's
health care system and a $4.7 million credit to provide technical assistance
to strengthen the Central Planning Organization. The International Finance
Corporation (IFC) has made four investments in YAR: (i) $2.4 million in FY78
to help finance a dairy and juice project; (ii) $3.9 million in FY84, plus an
additional equity contribution of $0.4 million in FY85, for a dry cell battery
project, and (iii) $3.9 million in FY85 for a vegetable cooking oil and ghee
project and (iv) $9 million in FY86 to support the construction of an oil
refinery in Marib. Further opportunities for IFC involvement are being
explored. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1985. The attached map (IBRD No. 15174R5)
indicates the location of the IDA-financed projects in YAR.
17.      While IDA has recently been assisting the YAR Goveroment in its
efforts to overcome the serious short-term budgetary and macrofinancial
probles2s (para. 7), the thrust of the IDA assistance strategy remains focused
on long-term development and fundamental structural, institutional and policy
issues. These include agricultural productivity; manpower development and
institutional support; water resource management; exploration for energy
sources and minerals; identification of viable industrial opportunities; and
maintaining, upgrading and expanding the physical infrastructure within the
constraint of available resources. Sector work complements both the economic
work and lending operations and serves to bridge the gap between recommended
short- and long-term measures.
18.     YAR's disbursement performance improved considerably in FY85,
although it has been affected by a number of implementation problems, and it
compares favorably to the EMENA region's average. Among the recurrent
problems that are common to most countries at YAR's stage of development are:
delays in the recruitment of consultants, delays in the award of contracts and
the resolution of contractual issues with contractors, and finalizing
cofinancing arrangements.  In addition, other serious project- specif..c
problems have also been affecting the implementation of two projects:
Fisheries Development (Cr. 1025-YAR) and Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply
(Cr. 950-YAR); these problems have been discussed with the Government and
corrective action is being taken to resolve them. The Government and IDA are
holding country implementation reviews twice a year to monitor the recurrent
implementation problems more closely and to address them promptly.
19.     Future World Bank operations are expected to consolidate past
achievements in the main infrastructure subsectors, spread the benefits of
agricultural and rural development projects to new outlying areas, accelerate
assistance to the Government in the field of energy, and continue to meet the
large requirements of education and training. Particular attention will be
given to YAR's ability to implement projects by ensuring the availability of
key staff and technical assistance needs. A power distribution and an
agricultural development project have been appraised and a highways project
and a technical assistance project for the energy sector are under
preparation. Future operations are expected in the areas of agriculture,
energy (including oil and gas development), transport, health and possibly in
the water supply and sewerage sector.



- 6 -
20.      YAR contributed an increasing portion of local currency financing
to IDA-assisted projects in the years when the budgetary situation was
favorable. However, in view of the tightness of the budget in recent years
and the fact that YAR remains among the least-developed countries, it still
requires special assistance through financing of a large part of project
costs, including local expenditures when appropriate. As in the past, the
costs of future projects are expected to be substantially higher than the
amounts that IDA can provide, and IDA will continue to cooperate closely with
other donors to maximize its catalytic role in stimulating cofinancing.
IDA-supported projects have so far led to about $370 million equivalent of
cofinancing from other aid donors.
PART III - THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
21.      Background.  The rule of the Imamate, prior to the revolution that
started in 1962, and the decade-long civil war that ensued held back the
development of an educated population and of a technically qualified labor
force. Therefore, the Republican Government was faced with an overwhelming
task in attempting to provide basic education and training to the bulk of the
population. The accomplishments it achieved since the early 1970s are
impressive. Primary school enrollments increased from 12 percent of the
children in the corresponding age group in 1971 to about 52 percent in 1983.
A diversified secondary school system has been developed, and the University
of Sanaa is now well established with five fully operating faculties:
education, sciences, economics and commerce, arts, and modern and Islamic
law. A faculty of engineering is under construction (the civil engineering
departmert being assisted under the IDA-supported Fourth Education project).
Faculties of medicine and agriculture are planned for the near future and are
expected to be supported by a number of bilateral aid sources. However, the
inevitable legacy af YAR's late development start is a continued very high
adult illiteracy rate (79 percent) and very low secondary school and
university level enrollment ratios (6.2 percent and 1.4 percent, respectively,
in 1983).
22.      Technical Education and Vocational Training.  Shortly after embarking
on the development of basic formal education, the Government directed its
attention, again with assistance from a number of donors including IDA, to the
development of basic technical education and vocational training (TEvT)
programs in order to meet the dire need for skilled manpower that ber e
obvious once the economic development process was put in motion. Thus, the
1977 Education Law vested the Ministry of Education (MOE) with the primary
responsibility of developing such programs. The action taken by MOE has been
determined and rapid so that, at present, TEVT programs exist at both the
preparatory (grades 7-9) and upper secondary (grades 10-12) levels, and to a
very limited extent, at the post secondary level. The range of skills
training offered within MOE's programs and in programs administered by other
agencies is commendable, although it should be emphasized that both in terms
of coverage and depth of training, the system is still in its infancy.



23.      Basic Training.  The MOE initiated the Basic Training Scheme in
1975. It is a flexible, nonformal program of rudimentary basic skill and
literacy training, primarily in rural areas, which is provided in District
Training Centers (DTCs). With IDA assistance under the First and Second
Education Projects (Credits 421 and 611-YAR), seven DTCs were established.
These centers became fully operational in 1979/80. Three additional DTCs are
being financed under the Fifth Education project (Credit 1340-YAR). The
number of participants in DTC training programs has multiplied tenfold from
2,200 in 1979,80 to 22,000 in 1983/84.
24.      Vocational Training.  Again with IDA assistance under the first two
education projects, four vocational training centers (VTCs) were established
in the four major cities of Sanaa, Taiz, Hodeidah, and Dhamar. These centers
offer two-year programs for primary school graduates in a number of trades
such as mechanics, automotive, electricity and carpentry. Although total
enrollments have increased from about 245 trainees in 1979/80 to 570 in
1984/85, enrollments vary considerably among centers. In particular, in the
case of the Taiz VTC, the Ministry of Education gave priority to the
development of the Technical Secondary School (TSS) on the same campus which
expanded into the VTC's facilities. In view of the significant demand for
vocational training in the Taiz area, the proposed project includes the
establishment and equipment of new facilities for the Taiz VTC (para. 55).
25.      The Sanaa VTC's curriculum has been completely revised and updated
with assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG). The revised
curriculum bas been successfully tested and implemented by the FRG-financed
training specialists and local instructors and is now available for use in all
four VTCs. Most of the VTC instructors are expatriate since there are no
in-country facilities for training instructors. The Sanaa VTC is an exception
since it is almost fully staffed by 25 Yemeni instructors who are TSS
graduates and who have received additional training in the FRG. In order to
spread the positive experience of the Sar-aa VTC to the other three centers,
the proposed project includes support for an instructor training program to be
affiliated with the polytechnic also proposed to be established under this
project (paras. 45-49).
26.      VTC graduates bave excellent job prospects as shown by a tracer study
conducted by the FRG team in Sanaa. A sample of 22 of the Sanaa VTC graduates
in 1981 found employment in their fields of training and are reported to be
currently earning at least YRls 3,000 ($463) per month, somewhat higher than
the average modern sector monthly wage.
27.      Technical Education.  There are currently only two technical
secondary schools in YAR, located in Sanaa and Taiz. These schools admit
students wbo have completed the preparatory level (grade 9) and passed an
entrance examination. The combined 1984/85 enrollment of the two schools of
620 represents a considerable increase over the 1971/72 enrollment of 180
students. The students appear highly motivated. The MOE grants, annually,
university admission to the top three students in each of the four
specializations offered. The other graduates seem to have no difficulty in
finding employment. The proposed project provides for the establishment of a



- 8 -
local capability for training Yemeni instructors for the TSSs and other
technical institutions (para. 49).
28.      Other Training.  In addition to the MOE, several other
ministries/agencies are involved in technical training. At the skilled and
semi-skilled level, four agencies have a VTC each, with a combined output of
450 workers. At the upper secondary level, three agencies have one training
institute each, with a combined annual output of about 230 graduates.
Moreover, a large number of Yemenis receive advanced education and training
abroad, typically financed under technical assistance components of externally
assisted projects or under bilateral scholarships programs.
Key Issues in Technical Education and Vocational Training
29.      The key issues pertaining to technical education and vocational
training in YAR include: significant shortages of trained manpower, including
teachers and instructors; and the inadequacy of education finance and
administration.
30.      Manpower Shortages.  Shortages of skilled manpower have beset YAR's
economic development from the beginning. A recent review by IDA of the TEVT
System1-' highlighted the following:  over the 1990-95 period, graduates from
all existing and proposed training institutions are expected to meet about 13
percent and 30 percent of the projected additiomal needs for skilled workers
and for junior technicians, respectively. There are at present no training
programs for technicians in YAR. The polytechnic proposed under this project
would meet about 8 percent of the additional demand for such technicians
during 1990-95. In other words, even with the proposed new training
facilities, the incremental demand for skilled manpower will continue to
exceed the incremental supply, probably until the end of this century if not
beyond. Reliance on skilled expatriate labor will continue although an
objective of this proposed project and previous IDA-assisted projects in the
sector is to decrease the level of this dependence over time.
31.      Shortage of Teachers and Instructors.  The very large shortage of
teachers and technical instructors has placed a heavy burden on the public
finances since a large proportion of existing teachers (85 percent in 1982/83,
or some 11,000 teachers for primary education only) are expatriates. The
situation of instructors in technical training institutions is similar.
Yemeni instructors have geaerally been trained abroad or on-the-job in YAR by
expatriates. In addition, the TSS/VTC/DTC system has been providing an
increasing number of instructars at various levels (from a total of 76 in
1980/81 to 255 in 1984/85). However, these efforts remain very modest
relative to requirements. The proposed project would assist in addressing
this matter through the provision of instructor training in the proposed
polytechnic.
I-' Draft report to be discussed with the Government shortly.



- 9 -
32.      Education Finance.  Public expenditures on education and training
have risen rapidly through the seventies and early eighties to sustain the
fast growth of school enrollment. They represented about 17.7 percent of all
public expenditures in 1984, a significant proportion but one which is
justifiable in terms of needs and the infancy of the system. However, these
expenditures need to be monitored closely as population pressures continue to
swell the ranks of school children.  An IDA stud3L' made a number of
recommendations to reduce the cost of education and to improve revenue
generation in the sector. The Government has taken the study seriously and
has already responded with some significant measures. Thus, in order to
reduce costs and to promote efficiency, it has: standardized designs for
school buildings, introduced the use of less costly building materials,
started using multiple class shifts in many urban schools, and has embarked on
the recruitment and training/retraining of multisubject and multigrade primary
teachers. On the revenue side, there are already a number of modest
administrative fees and user charges (about 15 in total) that are in effect
and the Government is considering raising some of these and introducing
others. However, the revenue that can be expected from all of these fees is
negligible relative to the cost of education. In fact, the Government still
provides a number of services such as transportation, books, and some food
free of charge as incentives to students. Given the strength of the demand
for education that has been exhibited over the last five years or so, the
Government is considering eliminating these incentives, which it can ill
afford and, in fact. is considering the introduction of some modest charges,
at least in higher education. The expansion of private education should also
be encouraged.
33.     As for TEVT programs, which also benefit from an incentive system for
trainees (e.g., free boarding and stipends in some cases), it is still
premature to eliminate these incentives and impose levies since it is only
recently that some of the training institutions have started operating at, or
close to, full capacity. However, as the system matures, it should be
possible to ask employers to contribute to the cost of training their
employees. The MOE currently lacks the capacity to conduct the studies
necessary to formulate a viable levy system. The National Technical Training
Board (NTTB) proposed under this project would, among other things, help
overcome this deficiency.
34.     The Administrative Structure.  A National Council for Technical and
Vocational Education was established in 1977 to set policies, define programs
and coordinate activities in the training field.  However, this Council was
never effective because it consisted of four Ministers concerned with training
whose other duties prevented them from meeting regularly, and because it
lacked a technical secretariat. The Government intends to abolish it and
replace it by the NTTB proposed under this project. The NTTB would be a
permanent body with a full-time staff responsible to an advisory committee
under the chairmanship of the Minister of Education.
YAR, Education Special Study - Administration and Finance, World Bank
Report No. 4020-YAR, August 1982.



- 10 -
35.      The day-to-day administration of TEVT programs is the responsibility
of the Directorate of Technical and Vocational Education in MOE. The MOE
hopes to strengthen this Directorate and the FRG has agreed to provide it with
the services of a vocational training specialist for two years to help improve
the organization and operation of the Directorate as well as to help improve
staff capability through the provision of on-the-job training.
Government Strategy
36.      In broad terms, the Government's development strategy aims at the
expansion of basic education and teacher training and at a more balanced
geographical distribution of educational opportunities, with a stronger
emphasis on rural areas. An equally important element of this strategy is the
gradual development of a modern system of technical education and vocational
training to help meet the country's increasing requirements for skilled
manpower. A greater participation of women in the labor force, in particular
professions such as teaching and nursing, is also being accorded some
priority. For example, women are sought out and encouraged to enroll in the
primary teachers training institutes (PTTIs), one of which is exclusively for
women, and in the health services training courses at the Health Manpower
Institute. These broad policy guidelines are reflected in the Second
Five-Year Plan (1982-86). Specific programs in the Plan of particular
relevance to training include: (i) expanding technical and vocational
training to meet lower and middle level manpower requirements, including the
establishment of a polytechnic to prepare technicians; (ii) improving the
administration of training programs through the establishment of a National
Technical Training Board; and (iii) developing and modernizing curricula.
IDA Assistance Strategy for Education and Training
37.      IDA's assistance strategy for the education and training sector has
included the following main elements: (i) early focus on basic general
eduration; (ii) developing a skeletal framework of TEVT programs to meet
pressing manpower requirements (thus the assistance for DTCs, VTCs and TSSs);
(iii) teacher training, especially for the primary schools teachers and for
women; (iv) assisting the Government in strengthening its institutional
capacity to set sound policy and administer programs (e.g., the establishment
of the School Building Unit at MOE and of the Education Research and
Development Center). and (v) assisting the Government to control costs and
improve revenue performance in the sector. This strategy is based on a very
healthy and continuous sector policy dialogue with the Government, which in
turn is based on a series of special sector studies such as those on education
administration and finance (para. 32), vocational training and technical
education (para. 30), and the study on the National Institute for Public
Administration (report still in draft).
Experience with Past Lending
38.      IDA's involvement in the education and training sector started in
1973. The First Education Project (Credit 421-YAR) was completed in 1980. It
provided support for expanding and upgrading primary and secondary teacher



- 11 -
training, for establishing training programs for skilled workers and
technicians and for launching the nonformal Basic Training Scheme for
out-of-school youths and adults. The project performance audit report (PPAR)
and the project completion report (PCR) noted the significant contribution of
the project towards institutional improvements within MOE, both in terms of
administration, planning, and curriculum development, and of the strengthening
of local capabilities for designing and supervising school building
construction. The Second Education project (Cr. 611-YAR), completed in 1982,
reinforced and expanded the major thrust of the first project in the areas of
teacher training, vocational training and basic education; it also supported
the basic training fund as part of the Basic Training Scheme and supported the
local production of educational materials. The PPAR and the PCR commented
that implementation was timely and effective and that educational objectives
were generally met; they also noted the significant impact of the DT's on
rural development by successfully meeting local needs for training through the
support of the basic training fund and the full utilization of the ?TTIs.
39.      The Third Education project (Cr. 915-YAR), approved in 1979,
supported the Government's aim of expanding secondary education in agriculture
and livestock practices and strengthening public administration.
Preinvestment feasibility studies related to basic health care training
included in the project led to an IDA-assisted health project. The Fourth
Education project (Cr. 1203-YAR), approved in 1982, is designed to increase
the utilization of the then existing PTTIs and VTCs to meet a serious shortage
of Yemeni engineers through the establishment of an Engineering College in
Sanaa University, and to strengthen MOE's capacity to undertake educational
policy studies through the establishment of an Educational Research and
Development Center (ERDC). The Fifth Education project (Cr. 1340-YAR),
approved in March 1983, supports the establishment of a first "tranche" of
PTTIs in rural areas: it also provides further support to the DTC network in
rural areas, supported by a Basic Training Facility for funding village
training programs. The Sixth Education project (Cr. 1470-YAR), approved in
April 1984, further supports teacher training by implementing a second
"tranche" of PTTIs in rural areas, helps establish a senior PTTI, and provides
further assistance for the expansion of DTCs in rural communities.
40-      The Third to Sixth Education projects are progressing
satisfactorily. Along with the proposed project, they form a cohesive core of
IDA-assisted projects in the sector that emphasize basic education and
training it. line with the country's most urgent needs. Lessons learned from
the implementation of the above completed and ongoing projects and applied to
the design of the proposed Technical Training Project include: (i) the
provision by the Borrower of appropriate incentives (allowances, boarding,
etc.) to attract trainees to the teaching profession and to technical
training; (ii) the importance of counterpart training; (iii) utilization of
imported materials for civil works should be kept to the necessary minimum
since they are unpopular with local contractors; and (iv) directors for new
project schools and training centers should be appointed in the early stages
of the project so that they can make input to both the adequacy of the
buildings and the installation of equipment.



- 12 -
Project Justification
41.      YAR's chronic shortage of skilled and semi-skilled manpower is
projected to continue beyond the 1990s. This problem can be solved only over
the longer term through measures to increase the efficiency of flow through
the formal education system, increase the number and capacity of training
centers and their utilization, and encourage a greater participation of
qualified women in the labor force, especially but not only in the field of
education. This would require sustained Government efforts over time and a
continued support by bilateral and multilateral aid donors. The proposed
project would provide a part of the needed support. Its main innovation is
the introduction of technicians training at the post-secondary level and the
in-country training of instructors for the various technical and vocational
training programs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.      The proposed project was prepared by the Government with assistance
from IDA, and was appraised in February 1985. Negotiations for the proposed
credit were held in Washington D.C. from October 21, 1985. The Yemeni
delegation was headed by The Minister of Education. A staff appraisal report
entitled "Yemen Arab Republic Technical Training Project" (No. 5724-YAR, dated
November 8, 1985 is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
The main features of the credit and the project are summarized in the Credit
and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map of the project area (IBRD
No. 19050) is attached.
Project Objectives and Description
43.      The proposed project would assist the Government to implement
priority technical education and vocational training programs to alleviate
acute shortages of technical manpower at the technician and skilled worker
levels. The equity concerns of the Government would also be served by these
programs as trainees would be drawn heavily from lower income groups and all
programs would admit females. The proposed project would also provide the
Government with the capability of training technical/vocational instructors
locally thereby reducing the government's dependency on overseas training and
need for costly expatriate instructors. Additionally, the proposed projecL
would provide for the national coordination of technical education and
vocational training programs through the establishment of a National Technical
Training Board (NTTB). The proposed project items are fully consistent with
priority items included in the YAR's current Five-Year Development Plan
(1982-86) and with IDA strategy for lending in the YAR.
Status of Project Preparation
44.      The Government has appointed a Project Coordinator.  All sites have
been acquired except for the site of the Technical Secondary School, Hodeidah
which is expected to be acquired in January 1986. Preliminary architectural



- 13 -
designs have been reviewed by IDA and are satisfactory. Work on construction
drawings is in progress. Preliminary furniture and equipment lists have been
submitted to IDA's review and are satisfactory.
Polytechnic (Sanaa)
45.      The proposed polytechnic would be the first of its kind in YAR.  Its
primary purpose would be the training of technicians for employment in the
manufacturing, transportation and construction industries. In addition, it
would have a one-year instructor training program.
46.      The polytechnic is expected to have a total enrollment capacity of
420 trainees with estimated outputs of 180 technicians and 34 instructors
annually. It would admit graduates of both the general and technical
secondary schools to the technician training program which corresponds to
grades 13 and 14. During the first semester, a customized program would be
provided for each stream to improve the technical knowledge and skills of the
general secondary school graduates and to improve the knowledge of the TSS
graduates in science and mathematics. Both streams would commence a common
program during the second semester. Other applicants for the technician
training program who would pass an entrance examination may also be admitted.
These would be placed appropriately in the training program on an individual
basis depending on their background and qualifications. The Polytechnic would
have four main technology departments for electrical-electronics, automotive,
construction, and mechanical-industrial manufacturing technology.
Specializations would be offered in each of these four areas.
47.      Course outlines, including itemized topic lists, corresponding lists
of experiments and laboratory/workshop exercises, as well as a preliminary
equipment list, have already been prepared under a feasibility study financed
by the Canadian International Development Agency. The technical assistance
component proposed under the project would include a total of 163 months of
consultancy services for curriculum development and assistance during the
start-up phase of the institute.
48.     The polytechnic would be staffed by about 40 professionals, including
6 administrators. Assurances regarding the appointment by January 1, 1986 of
a Yemeni director of the polytechnic with suitable qualifications were
provided by the Government during negotiations. The instructional staff,
entirely Yemeni, would be recruited from among graduates of the faculties of
mechanical and civil engineering, science, and education at the University of
Sanaa. Nine overseas fellowships of 6 months each would be included in the
technical assistance component of the project for instructor training. In
addition, the MOE intends to enter into "twinning" arrangements with similar
polytechnics and is currently discussing details with the bilateral technical
assistance agency (para. 60).
49.      The instructor training department would admit about 36 graduates of
the technician training program annually for an intensive, one-year program of
instructor training. Graduates would be employed as trainers in the TSSs,



- 14 -
VTCs, DTCs, and as training officers in industrial enterprises. The technical
assistance component proposed under the project would include 30 months of
consultancy services to prepare detailed curriculum materials and to assist in
the start-up phase of the program. Overseas fellowships would be provided for
the 2 instructor trainers and the department head would undergo overseas
training for 12 months in the organization, management and supervision of
instructor training programs.
Technical Secondary School (Hodeidah)
50.      The proposed project would provide for the construction, equipment
and technical assistance for the establishment of a TSS to be located in
Hodeidah. The school's capacity would be about 360 trainees with an estimated
output of 110 graduates annually.  Employment prospects for graduates are good.
51.      The organization and basic curriculum of this TSS would be similar to
those in Sanaa and Taiz except that the specializations offered would be
related to the needs of the labor market in Hodeidah. The four
specializations would be: automotive, electricitylelectronics, marine
maintenance, and refrigeration and air conditioning. Course outlines and
basic equipment lists are currently under preparation and are scheduled for
completion by January, 196. A total of six months of consultancy services
would be provided under the project for curriculum development of the four
specializations.
52.      The staff of the TSS would be recruited among graduates of the
faculties of education, science, and mechanical and civil engineering at Sanaa
University. The project technical assistance component would include overseas
training (12 months each) for 4 technical instructors and overseas training (3
months) in school management for the director of the TSS.
Technical Secondary School (Sanaa)
53.      The Sanaa TSS was established in 1971172.  Much of the original
equipment has served its normal, useful life and is in urgent need of
replacement. In addition, two of the existing workshops (electrical and
building construction) are too small to permit adequate instruction and need
to be replaced. The proposed project would, therefore, include provision for
re-equipping about 80 percent of the laboratories and workshops and for
construction of two new workshops for the electrical and building construction
specializations. Adequate space is available at the existing TSS for the
construction of the new workshops, and such construction would not interfere
with normal TSS operations. The two old workshops would be used for storage.
54.      The Sanaa TSS has a maximum capacity of 300 students and an equal
number of boarding places. Actual enrollment during the 1984/85 school year
was 240. It is anticipated that enrollments will continue to increase
gradually and should improve substantially with the anticipated modernization
of the school. The TSS offers four specializations: automotive, electrical,
building construction, and road construction. The programs in all four



- 15 -
specializations are generally adequate although the curriculum needs
updating. Three man-months of consultancy services would be provided under
the proposed project to update the curriculum in line with the new equipment
to be installed.
Vocational Training Center (Taiz)
55.      The VTC at Taiz shares facilities with the existing TSS and, given
the priority attached to the development of the TSS-one of only two such
institution in YAR-the TSS has expanded into the VIC premises. During the
1984/85 school year, there was room for only 50 students in the VTC, whereas
the TSS had 380 students. At the same time, the Government anticipated
reorganizing the VTC program on the lines of the very successful Sanaa VTC
which is being assisted by the FRG. The new Taiz VTC under the proposed
project would have a capacity of 360 students and an estimated annual output
of 160 graduates and would offer courses in twelve specializations.
56.      Under a technical assistance agreement with the Government of the
FRG, the proposed Taiz VTC would be fully equipped, specialist services would
be provided for curriculum development for all twelve specializations and the
new VTC staff would be trained by FRG vocational training specialists. The
proposed IDA credit would include only the foreign exchange component for the
construction of the new VTr building at Taiz and of a dormitory to accommodate
180 students. The site for the VTC has been acquired and is satisfactory.
Preliminary building designs have been reviewed by IDA and are satisfactory.
The National Technical Training Board
57.      The MOE has prepared draft legislation for the establishment of the
NTTB. The draft legislation was reviewed by IDA and found satisfactory. The
Government provided assurances at negotiations that the NITB would be
established by July 1, 1986. The NTTB would function as a permanent body with
a staff of at least six full-time professionals and support staff. It would
include a high-level steering committee consisting of ministers from
ministries with training activities and senior representatives of employers in
public and private industry. The chairman of the steering committee would be
the Minister of Education. The major responsibilities of the NIB would
include: the preparation of a national policy for training, development of
plans for policy implementation, monitoring the implementation of plans and
preparation of annual reports on training. In carrying out its
responsibilities for policy formulation and program coordination, the NTTB
would: (i) liaise with the manpower department of the Central Planning
Organization (CPO) for manpower needs assessment in the light of the national
development strategy. This department in CPO is responsible for overall
manpower planning involving aggregate manpower demand/supply balances;
(ii) cooperate and contract with the Education Research and Development Center
(ERDC) for implementation of studies such as tracer studies, the feasibility
of training levy systems, cost-effectiveness studies, etc.; and
(iii) cooperate with the MOE's Directorate of Technical and Vocational
Education for implementation of skill testing and certification programs. The



- 16 -
above activities would be implemented on a phased basis according to a
workplan to be developed with the assistance of a consultant. This workplan
would be reviewed by IDA within 12 months after the establishment of the
NTTB. NTTB would carry out such plan in accordance with a time schedule
satisfactory to the Association.
58.      The proposed project would assist the Government in establishing the
NTTB by providing 18 months of consultancy services during the first two years
of the project. The MOE would provide two qualified, full-time counterparts
for the consultant. The consultant would assist MOE staff in preparing the
detailed terms of reference for the NTTB, NTTB organizational plan and
operational procedures, position descriptions for NTTB staff and work
priorities. He/she would also provide training and assistance to the new NTTB
staff during the start-up period of the new Board.
Technical Assistance
59.      The proposed project would include technical assistance (TA) in
support of: (a) consultancy services (163 months) and fellowships (259 months)
for the establishment of the polytechnic; (b) consultancy services (3 months)
for instructional materials development at the Sanaa TSS; (c) consultancy
services (6 months) and fellowships (51 months) for the establishment of the
new TSS at Hodeidah; (d) consultancy services (18 months) for the
establishment of the NTTB; and (e) consultancy services (26 months) for
preinvestment designs for possible follow-up projects. The total TA component
to be financed under the proposed project would therefore include 292 months
of consultancy services and 310 months of fellowships. All training materials
developed under the technical assistance component would be made available to
other training institutions. The draft terms of reference of project
consultants and the fellowship training plan would be provided for IDA review
by January 1, 1986.
Bilateral Support
60.      The technical assistance agency, Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische
Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) of the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG), through a
previously established protocol agreement with the Government of YAR, has
provided, and continues to provide, TA for vocational training. For the
proposed Taiz VTC, the FRG is expected to provide additional TA, including
equipment and consultancy services during 1988-91 (approximately $2.7 million
equivalent). In addition, the FRG Government would finance, in respect of the
Polytechnic, all the specialists services, and 31 percent of the fellowship
program, and 29 percent of the equipment and furniture (estimated at $4.48
million equivalent). In the unlikely event that the FRG contribution does not
materialize, and that no other external financing is made available, the
Government of the YAR would provide the necessary foreign exchange and would
finance all local costs.



- 17 -
Project Implementation
61.      Implementation Period.  The construction, furnishing and equipping of
all institutions and the TA component are scheduled to be completed by June
30, 1992. In order to allow sufficient time for submission of the final
withdrawal applications, the closing date would be December 31, 1992. The
Minister of Education has designated the Director of Technical Education and
Vocational Training as project coordinator. He would have the overall
responsibility for implementing the project under the general supervision of
the Deputy Mfinister. The specific responsibilities of the project coordinator
would be: (a) to ensure appropriate provision of local capital and recurrent
budgets for the project; (b) with the MOE school building unit (SBU) staff, to
manage the day-to-day operations of project implementation, including
preparation of construction bids, supervision of construction and procurement
of equipment; (c) with the advice and assistance of the SBU accountant, to
oversee the disbursement of the project special account, prepare withdrawal
applications of IDA funds and maintain financial project records; (d) to
insure timely recruitment of local teaching staff and expatriate specialists
for the project institutions and nomination of candidates for the project
fellowship program; and (e) to coordinate GTZ equipmeut procurement,
specialists and fellowships for the Taiz VTC and the Polytechnic.
Project Cost and Financing
62.      The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is estimated
at about $28.1 million equivalent, of which about $18.6 million, or 66
percent, is in foreign exchange. Physical contingencies of 10 percent for
civil works, furniture and equipment, and of 5 percent for technical
assistance, are assumed in the cost estimates. The project's base cost is
estimated in 1985 prices. Price contingencies for the period 1985-92 have
been applied to all items at the following rates: for local costs, 10 percent
in 1985 and 1986, 8 percent during 1987-90 and 5 percent during 1991-92; and
for foreign costs, 5 percent in 1985, 7.5 percent in 1986, 8 percent during
1987-90, and 5 percent during 1991-92.
63.      The proposed Credit of $12.7 million equivalent would finance 68
percent of the total estimated foreign exchange cost of the project. The
rovernment of FRG (GTZ) is expected to contribute, through a bilateral
agreement with the MOE, an amouit of $7.2 million equivalent for equipment and
technical assistance for the Taiz VTC and the Polytechnic. The amount
includes the balance of foreign exchange ($5.9 million) plus 14 percent of
project local costs ($1.3 million). The Government would finance 86 percent
of the total local costs, which amount to $8.2 million (29 percent of the
total project cost). Annual recurrent expenditures that would be associated
with the project when fully operational are estimated at about YRls 37.7
million equivalent, which would represent about 2.0 percent of the projected
recurrent expenditures for education in 1990. This additional cost is not
expected to cause any undue hardship on the education budget.



- 18 -
Procurement
64.      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:
Project Element                      Procurement Method                  Totals
(US$ million)
ICB        LCB        Other       N.A.
Construction               12.8        0.4                                13.2
(5.7) l/   (0.2)        -                      (5.9)
Equip. & Furniture          5.3                    0.7        2.8 2/       8.8
(4.8)                  (0.6)                   (5.4)
Technical Assistance        -          -           1.7        4.4 2/       6.4
_   -     (1.4)                    (1.4)
Total                  18.1        0.4         2.4        7.2         28.1
(10.5)      (0.2)       (2.0)       -          (12.7)
1/  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Credit.
2/ To be provided by the Government of FRG.
64.      Civil works contracts (amounting to $13.2 million including
contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of ICB, except for about $0.4
million to be awarded on the basis of LCB. It is anticipated that due to the
competitiveness of the local construction industry civil works contracts would
be awarded to local firms. Detailed lists and specifications of furniture and
equipment would be presented to IDA for review and approval prior to
procurement. Equipment and furniture items (amounting to $8.8 million,
including coutingencies) would be grouped, to the extent possible, in large
packages to permit bulk procurement except for $2.8 million to be financed by
FRG and procured under GTZ procedures. Contracts for furniture and equipment
in excess of $50,000, a total of $5.3 million, would be awarded on the basis
of ICB. Small items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the above
figure or items of a specialized nature for which ICB is not practical, would
be procured by obtaining and comparing at least three price quotations, a
procedure acceptable to IDA- These items would not exceed an aggregate total
of $0.7 million, which would represent about 9 percent of the estimated
furniture and equipment costs including contingency allowances. Draft tender
and contract documents for furniture, equipment and civil works would be
forwarded to IDA for review and approval; IDA's approval of tender evaluation
documents would be required prior to the award of all contracts for furniture,
equipment and civil works estimated to cost over $100,000 each. Other
contracts will be subject to selective post-award review. For the purpose of
comparing foreign and local bids under ICB, local manufacturers of furniture
and equipment would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the existing
rate of customs duties applicable to competing imports or 15 percent on the
c.i_f. price, whichever is lower. Equipment for the Taiz VTC and the
Polytechnic to be provided under parallel financing arrangements with FRG,



- 19 -
amounting to about $2.8 million equivalent, will be procured under GTZ
procedures. Specialists for TA will be selected in accordance with IDA
guidelines except for those provided by GTZ for the Taiz VTC and the
Polytechnic who will be directly recruited under GTZ procedures.
65.      Laws and regulations regarding local procurement procedures and
practices in YAR were reviewed by IDA in July, 1985, in order to reach a
judgment as to whether local procedures are acceptable for IDA-financed
contracts. The findings of that review were discussed with the YAR
authorities during negotiations. It was agreed that civil works for the
construction of the two workshops at the Sanaa TSS may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of the Borrower's competitive bidding
procedures.
Disbursements
66.      The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) Civil works: 45 percent of total expenditures.
gb) Furniture and Equipment: 100 percent of foreign expenditures, and of
local expenditures ex-factory; 85 percent of local expenditures for
imported items procured locally; and
Cc) Technical Assistance: 100 percent of foreign expenditures.
Withdrawal applications for contracts above $10,000 equivalent financed by the
Credit would be fully documented. Documentation for contracts below $10,000
may not be submitted, but will be maintained by the SBU and are subject to
review during project supervision missions. In order to facilitate timely
withdrawal of the proceeds of the Credit, the Borrower will open, maintain and
operate a Special Account with the Central Bank of Yemen on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. The initial deposit would be $0.5 million
equivalent, based on the estimated disbursement schedule and on a four month
average period of project expenditure to be channeled through the Special
Account. Funds for major equipment contracts will be directly withdrawn from
IDA.
67.      Disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31, 1992,
about seven years after Credit signature. The estimated disbursement profile
is shorter (by one year) than the IDA country-wide disbursement profile for
the YAR. This is reasonable because: (a) the actual disbursement profile for
the completed Second Education Project is shorter (six years) than the country
profile; (b) the SBU's performance in implementation has improved with each
succeeding IDA-assisted education project; and (c) the advanced stage of
preparation of the proposed project (completion of construction drawings and
bid documents for civil works for all project items except the Polytechnic is
scheduled for February 1986).



- 20 -
Project Benefits and Risks
68.      The principal benefits of the proposed project are:  (a) it would
assist the Government's efforts to alleviate acute shortages of trained
technicians and skilled workers; (b) it would provide an in-country capability
for the training of vocational/technical instructors thereby reducing the high
cost of their overseas training or of using expatriate instructors; (c)
through the establishment of the National Technical Training Board, it would
improve the Government's ability to systematize, coordinate and monitor the
technical education and vocational training system to improve its efficiency;
(d) it would enhance access to training, aad hence employment, for lower
income groups who traditionally enroll in TEVT programs; it is expected that
10 percent of the enrollment will be females, and finally (e) the new and
updated curriculum materials to be developed would be disseminated to all
technical training centers and would lead to a general improvement in the
quality of training.
69.      The proposed project is fully consistent with the Government's
investment priorities and thus has a strong potential for success. The
project implementation unit in the MOE has considerable experience through
previous IDA-supported education projects and has established a solid record
of effective project implementation. Consequently, there are no significant
risks related to project components, with the possible exception of the NITB's
ability to translate policy decisions into action programs. However the NTTB,
unlike the previous coordinating entity will have a permanent, full-time
staff, thereby minimizing the risk.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
70.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
71.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
November 25,1985



-21 -                                       AN          I
Page 1.of 6
-, A  L E 1^t
'Tsmm, AuS REP. or    - SOCAL E41nITOKS DATA SHKEE
YEND. AAB aE. or                    REFERLNC  GROUPS (WELC'ED AVERAESI la
!0mS                     (20ST ?tlCENT SLMATE) lb
1CE              MhDOL :                DLE :Y5CON
1960l      197tr.   iSTdl        Y. ARICA !6 mD E'As?     LAT. &intc& A en
ARA (THOUSAND SQ. DII
:J.AL                             195.0      :91.O       195.0
AC4:CZuXAL                         96.b       97.3        97.9
NP PE CAPITA CUSS                      ..          ..        5o0.0           1134.9                    1875.
DEC ! CUW I  MEM CAPITA
(CLOCRADS OF OIL 5QUIVALU)          5.0        11.0       S7.0             623.9                    993.6
PoPATO   S  VIrTL STATI3TICS
POPUUATION.N4EAA (THOUSANDS)   '163.0        5211.0     7595.0 Ie
CRBAN POPUATION (Z oF TOTAL)        3.4         7.5        U18-             49.0                      67.?
POPULATION PROSOfl'ONS
POPUAION N TEYA 2000 (MILL)                             12.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                            40.0
POPULMATTON 30NTU                                        2.0
POPULATION1 DENSITY
PER Sq. KH.                      21.3        27.0       31.9               17.8                     48.0
PER SQ. IM. AGLI. LAND           43.1        5.0        75.b             ;70.j                      9t.t
POPULATION AGE STRfCRE 'LZ
O-1' YIS                        42.4        43.0       45.4               43.3                     35.5
15-6' TIS                        54.4        :3J.       51.2              53.0                     57.1
65 AID ABOVE                      3.l         3.1        33                3.3                      ;.2
POPULATION Clash RATE CI)
TOTAL                             2.3         2.3        2.1               2.0                       2.'
=RSAN                            8.1.       LO1Z        7.5               4.4                       3.6
CR   aBLfl RA  (PER TROCS)         49.7        48.8       4.3               40.0                     30.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)       21.9        Z6.5       22.0               11.5                     1.0
GCOSS acP,OD sCTIO RAT             3.4         3.3        3.3               2.8 .0
PaNEML? PLANNINC
ACCPTRS. ANNAL (OS)               ..          ..          ..                                         .3
uSaS C: OP 'ARI   mS)             ..          ..                          12453
YOaD -   urn
zDX or OOD PvO. PER CAPITA
C(1969-71-10)                     119.0         4.a       75.0              95.1                    109.6
PM CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CaLORES (I of REQUTWSIS)         a3.0        68.0       80.0             LIS.2                     113.2
.ROTINS (GRAIS FM DAT)          67.0        53.0       60.0              77.8                     69.4
OF W>IC  anEaL AND PU           18.0        L4.0       19.0 a    O          3  17                 34.2
C.EL  (CSEE 1-' DEM! RAZ           61.1        48.9       3.                 12.8                     4.6
LUP   5PEC". AT am  (MARS)         35.         36.5       44A               57.8                     64.8
INFAST ME. RAZE (PER  D105)       211.5       188.0      152.0             A968                      59.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WAXER (2POP)
TOML                              ..          4.0       27.0 if           674Z                     65.3
Ut:RB                             ..         45.0      100.0 77           93.4                     7.5
RUllRAL                           ..          2A.0      U.O 0             45.                       .2
aCCESS TO HICRETA DISPOSAL
(: oF PoPULATION)
TOTML                             ..          ..         ..               45.9                     56.3
URBAN                             ..          ..        60.0 ft           63.0                     73.4
38AL                              ..          ..         ..               28.6                     25.5
POP_LATO  PM Pct CIA           130090.0    Z4370.0    LL670.0 It          4331.0                   1909.7
P. M    asu  PESOW                  ..          ..      4580.0 7T         x5.0                       o80.2
POP. PER  OSPrAL RD
TOTL                           2730.0      1430.0 L   L700.0 IE          621.8                    362.0
URBAN                             ..          ..       340. 7            545.0                    422.0
ROAL -                ,..                     ..         8380.0 7       2511.3                   2716.7
afSSInS PM ROSA L                   ..          .. m144 i                   U.7                      27.5
AVERSE SIZE OF HOUSEHL
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URBAN                             ..          ..
R.RAL                             ..          ..
AVERSE 30. OF PERSOS/RO
TO-JiL                            ..          ..         .                  ..
URB                               ..          ...
AL                              ..          ..          .                  ..
PERCTAGE of  Z        WM. CL.C.
TOTAL                             ..          ..
RIRAL                             ..          ..



-22 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
Tom. AM  a". OF         - SOCIAL tNDtCAMOS DATA SM8K?
YN"V. ARm  UEP. ur                     REFEiOCE itOtIUPS (UEtC)tTO AVEWES) la
4cST                       COS?T IECV'Ir EWL'IATE) !%
R1CIT             'LE tlc                  410.E LSCO0L
1960t!      197J_/b  EST   T&b      Y     t. AtRtCA 4 'U aSr   LAr. AI6RLCA * ;AR
ADJUSTSD ENR0LL,4M- RATIOs
piLART:  TOTAL                      8.0        12.0         59.0               09.A                      io6
NULE                    b.0         23.0        94.0               tQ3.7                      1o0.5
FE29ALZ                   0..         2.'         11.0               75.2                      IUA.
uEcomDArL: WTOAL                     ..          1.0          7.0               42.9                       &A.2
MALE                      .           2.0         12.0              Si.                         41.7
FNALE                     ..          0.1         2.0                34.6 8.
VOCATIONL (2 oF SCOnMOA                3.2: lb     2.2          1.&                10.0                       L3.3
rPrL-UAOIM RATrO
P1IAR                               L5.0 lh     51.0         '.0                29.7S
SEcOu                               24.0 7      24.0         10.0               LOA                         1..7
PASSE"=  CARS/OSAD                     ..          ..           .. F17.8                                        .
RADIO RKCEIVMIrIIUSAmw   v             ..         ISJ f        16.2              175.9                      32U.3
TV PFCERSITOUSA   P0?                  ..           .. M.                         51.2                       LLs.;
-sP c"DU* CIUa
DZTESTl CIRLATION
U TSAM POPULATION                     ..          O.7          ..                37.2                          .
CUDIW      AL XTEDA CAPIA              ..          ..           2  tf              2.1                        2_4
LUl
TWAL LAOR POR0  MAOUS)              1263.0      1481.0       150.0
FEMALE (PrCElI                       3.7         4.5         5.6                11.0                       Z3_6
AC L7UT  (PERCENT                -  83.0        79.0         75.0 ft            424.                       31.4
lDIUSTXT (PERCT)                     7.0         9.0         It.0 7f            27.9                      :..3
PAITTCATtM  RATE (E CPUr)
TOTAL                               30.3        26.2         2I..6              26.2 3.5
MALZ                                57.7        55.0         48.6               40Z                         51.3
fINALE                               2.3         2.5          Z.6                5.5                       15.9
CC1gmN      DEPCNDUIC  RATIO           1.5         1.6          Z.0                1A                         1.3
z.ms
PErU   or PRISAIE D1ClW
HIGcsr 5S OF  UVAOLDS                .            ....
HIGHMs Z0Z oF  HUss                   .           ......
LOWST 2: oF w. s..W.s
axmor iNO'osmnLs                     ........
nOieST 4r   ai UIRsRO0         
51ITD ABOUE  WU D=
LUEL (USS PUCAPITA)
UR                                   ..          ..         366.0 It           226.3                      28S_3
RURAL                                ..          ..           ..               L3&.0                      185.3
ESTXMJC= ELAIIVT FOVIUKy 28Ie
LIE?.m U   PO CAPIZAL
URBAN                                ..          :.           ..                31.5                      519.8
RML                                  ..          ..         1570 /t            326.0                      359.7
!5TDf"-   MP. 11L0  ASaIOTZ
UUAII                                ..          ..           ..                 ..                         ..
wUng                                 ..          ..           ..                29.0                        .
MUr AFALXA.E
Ia   The  m     mr       tat e ar for asch Lacacar am peulatlou.umgbcmg artchme  as.  Caernf, at -cnmrx
aw che dicaco   d qeugd  a ava13ab1itl   ef daz. md in sac uoe_.
lb   Umlas achetwtae noced. DaCA far 1960r rar co 8s y.ar beten 1959 and L961:  Data foar 19708  bae.
1969 and 1971: I  da  far 'Mor Reeae acgaeL           bitumen 1981 and 1963.
c   leeR"La  populatlon Includes algurc wurkee abrad ftr Lea   bScl  a year;  Ia 1979;  /a 1977;  If UvSO;
AL 1972; Ih 1962.
JUIE. 1985



ANNEX I
-23-                                                   Page 3 of 6
|EFINMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
>;otes Although the data ae drawn from sources generally Judged the most authoritaive and reliable. at should also be noted thAt they may not be mntemnatonally
comparable becauez of the lack of stand rIlied deEmuons and cncepts sed by different countnes in collecting the data. The data are. nonethekss useful to
demcnbe orders of magnitude, indicate trends, and chacterize cenain mpajr diffeences beLween countres.             -
The referen  groups are tll the same country group of the subject country and (2) a county group with somewhat higher average income than the country
group of the subect country (except for -High Income Ci Eaporters- group where -Middle Incrmc North Afrca and Middle East' is chosen because Of strongr  I
socio-ultural alfinities). In the refernce group data the avcrags am populauon weighted anthmeuc means ror each indicator and shown only when maJonty 
ofhe count.es in a group hasdata ror that ndicator Since thecoverage of countes among the ndicatorsdepends on the avadablty of data and is not uniform.
caution nust beeeressed in reaiing awerages of oneindicator to another. Thes averages are only useful in companng the value of one indicator at attineamng |
he cowuntry and rference groups.
AREA (thsousand sq.km.)                                          Crud 81rr Rate (per towsmaad)-Number of live births in the vear
Trtal-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                        Crum  Deat Rate (per rhomud)-Number of deaths in the year
Agriculwat-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily ar     per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Gosr Reprdwaim  Rare-Average number ofdaughters a woman
lie faRlow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 dat.                             will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specifc fertility rats: usually fiv-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capitu estimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices. calculated by sanrc conversion method as World    Famil Pkmaiq-Accrwors. Anna (thousandr)-Annual num-
Bank Alas (1981-83 basis). 1983 daa.                             berofaceptorsofrth-ntroldevices underauspices ofnational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparmnt                    famil planning proAM
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.      Fa-uy Plar-Us- (permit of-wid wnmes)-The prcen-
etrooium., natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geothcemal elc-   tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contracption. Women
1982 damv                                                        of child-bearing age are gencrally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contracptive usa  is neasured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISICS                                   groups.
Totad Populion Mid-Yew (tho.rsaad )-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.    FOOD AND NUTRMION
andI 09g3 dta
U,liar bpnfm ilievrm  f trd)-Rato, o  uran t   toal Index of FoedProdaaioa Per Capita (1969-71= I0P)J-Index of per
(klan Pbpdadeu (percent qf rowl)-Ratio of urbart to total        capita annual production of al food commoditai.l Production
population; different definiions of urban areas may affect compar-  edudes anirnal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
abilitv of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 19*3 data       indude primay commodities (eg. sugarcane instead of sugar)
pinkdo P        noiection                                        which are edible and cnmtain nutrients (eg. coffee and tea are
ntiarion in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.     excluded); tbey comprise cercals, root crops. pulses. oil secds.
made for each economy separtdy. Starting with information on     vegetables fruits. nuts. sugarne and sugar beets. lvestock. and
total ppulation by age and sex. fertility rates, mortality rates. and  livcstock products. Aggregt production freach country is based
.strnadonal migration in thc base year 1980. these parametcrs   on nadonal average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
wer projected at fitve-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assCujptions until the population became stationary.             P_ CapisaI    ofalorie (percen ofre wr fat)-CornpuL-
Statioery popzdrzion-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supphis avadable in country
tfity rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Availabli supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertiE;y ratcs bave simultaneously remained at rcplacemcnt level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stodc  Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exdudt animal feed. secds for use in agriculture, quanties used in
co-staet and equal to the death rate. the age structurc is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constapt. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
rsie was escimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
*h'- psl.Ation in the year 2000. and the ratc of decline of fcrtility  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percent for
ra-e to replacement leveL                                        waste at household kve; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Pbpula:wus Momenzum-4s the tendencv for population growth to     Per Caprt Spiy of Proiein (gram per dy)-Protein content of
cont.r.ie bevond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
z6vaed: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirencnts for al countries established by USDA
un:y. The momentum of a population in the year z is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the 7car r, given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year f onward. 1985 data.                        75 grams of total protein and 23 grms of animal protein as an
pa&d   Density                                                   average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqek-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 bec-      Supply; 1961, 1970 and 1982 data
rs) of totalrarea 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                     Per Capta Peer Suply Il'  Agial and Pulse-sProtem supply
Per sqbnh. agrulrtural Imd-Computed as above for agricultural    of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
Iand only. 1960. 1970, and 1982 data.                            1970 and 1977 data.
RPirPatio. Agc Shructre (perent)-Children (0- 14 years). work-  Cd (ages 1-4) Deat Rat ('perthousund)-Number of deaths of
ing age (5-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               group in a gien year. For most developing countries data derived
Poparlatioa Growda Rat (percrnt)-toral--Annual growth rates of   from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.     HEALTH
Popario Grwt RAwe (pereat)--mbm--Annual growth rates            Life Expectancy at Dhrrh (yearsN -Number of years a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.      infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for aU people



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                            Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life.  PupI-reacher Ratio - primary, ad secondary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
Ihoawr Mortait Rate t r thoasad)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding lees.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year. 1960. 1970 and 1983 datL                                CONSUMPTION
Acces to SLfe Water (pore  of populdtoemJ-.tm, urdam, and     PeSsaq  Car (per thooand popJadem)-Passenger caus com-
rural-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than 'ight persons: excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (indudes treated surface waters or  anca hearses and military vehics.                  -
untrated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Radio Receins (per thoumdpapa)m )-All types or receiven
borehols spnngs and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to gener publc per thousand of population;
dve populations Ln an urban ar  a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located rot more than 200 meter from a house may be considered  gistration of radio sea was in effect data for recent years may
as being within reasonable acces of that house In mral areu   not be comparble since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable access would imply that the housewife or members of the
housdhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TR   s (perthupopala_IV  receiver forbroa t
in fetching the fais water needs                              to geneal public per thousand populadon; xcdudes unlicensed TV
Accex to Ezxcret Dk_pots (per   ofpuhne  u j-Jora1 _rba,      recivers in countries and in yeas when registution of TV se  was
and rwar-Number of people (total urban, and rural) served by  in effect.
excreta dispoal as percentages of their respective populations.  NewsP G 0rcuatlm (per thauumudpepodadon)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age ckrulation of 'daily ,-'4r  intere  newspaper. defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  peodca pubio devoted prmaly to recording gen   news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be "deily" if it appear at leat four time a weeI.
Poplam   pr Phs,idaa-Ptipulation divided by number of prac-   Cinem  Annd Aertudc per CApia pr Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level  number of tickets sold during the year, including admissions to
PRp eataou per NsiaV  Pow-Populauon divided by number of      drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing mnale and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses,
practia nurse and nursing auxiliaries.                        LABOR FORCE
Awdmm per Helpgtd BeA _4  -  , mdu nrmraPopulatlon            Tal Liab  Force (thmsadrj-Economically active persons in-
(totaL urba  and oual) dided by the-r rhsptidve number of     cluding arned form and unempkyed but excluding houscwiv
hospital beusavailable  dipubic andb ter rctac andube         studen. etc. covenng popuation of all ages. Defiitions in
hospital and rehavilitation  centep  a ospitals are  andishmesa  various countries are not comparable; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
permnntly stffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Fmae (pero)-Female labor force as percentage of rtotl labor
iding pnncipally custoda care are not inludedL Rural hospitals.    force.
hower, include ealth and medicl centers not permanently staffed  Agrilture (p-ceiir-Labor force in farming, forstry, bhunting
by a physician (but by a medial assistant nursc, midwife etc.)    and fishing as perentage of total labor forc; 1960.1970 and 1980
which offer ia-paten accommodation and provide a imited rangc  data.
of medial facildau                                            IAsy (percenrJ-Labor force in miningt consucto  mann-
Adissios per Hostd  e-Total number of admissions to or        facturing and electricity, water and gas as permentae of total lbor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      forcec 1960 1970 and 1980 dataL
atidman Rare mpree-o ak,,I, mdfamak-farticipation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as totaL male. and fcmni lbbor force
A-e    5e of HseAe' (ps   per heasehodJ-tora, wam,            as percentages of total   le and female popultion of all age
andrwal-A houschold consis ofa group orindividuals who share  respecivy 196D. 1970, and 1983 data These are based on ELOs
lving quartr and their main meals A boarder or lodger may or  pipatiorates rfting a-x suctre ofthe populaion. and
may not be included in the household for statisia pU!pose     long time trend. A few estim   are from  national souuus.
Avere Namber of Pmrsas per Roomr-toA whm, and rmzl-           Ecomic Dqpendesey Auii-Ratio of population under 15, and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15464).
occtpied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwelings exclude
non-pennanent stuctus  and unoccupied parts.                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percee of Ducfm  -*l Ekcfaricirora4 whm, md raral-            Perentage of Toral DiWpsak nom  (both in cask md kid)-
Conventional dwellngs with electricity in lving quarters as percan-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total urban. and rural dwellings respectively,        hold incomc.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGEr GROUPS
Adstd Ed  iln.eut Ratis                                       The folowing estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prurvy sdhool - toal, malc afd fn-Gross tamalee and           levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution
female enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estied Abs&th Poverty ncmwe Leve (UISper cpita)-ortan
respective primary school-age populations. Whilc many countries  d nral-Absolute poverty incom  leveli is that income level
cnnsider primary school age to be 6-11 years others do not The  below which a mimnmal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differens in country practics in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios give  For some countries with universal  Esarim,d Rehid Povety LJcm Ledl USS per carpk_)-erbm
education gross enrollmIent nay exceed 100 percent since some   .d real-Rural relative poverty incme klvei is one-third of
pupils are below or above the countrys standard prinmary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban kvel is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondry school - rotaol naa  and fenae-Computed as above:    lving in urban areas.
secondary education vequires at Icast four years of approved pri-  Eared f fop n AtdoLw Aesobte   1     1vrty Inu Levd (per-
mary instruction; provides geaL vocational or teacher training  ct)-arm and rral- Percent of population (urban and rural
insmctions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are -absolute poor.
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocatial Enrolnueni (pecet of  d codary)-Vocational institu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical, industraL or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independey or as departments of secondary insiutions.                                 lune 1985



25 -                               ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%)
1984                   (Constant Price)
(tm - Current Prices)        FY1977-83        1984
GNP at Market Prices                 3806                     6             2
GDP at Market Prices                 3354                     7             2
Imports of GNFS                      1673                     5            -9
Exports of GNFS                       220                    15             1
Consumption                          4105                     4            -2
of which:  Government             (1333)                   20            -5
Investment                            702                     9            -8
Gross National Savings                391                    -9           -16
OUPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1981)
Value Added    Resident Labor Force       V.A. Per Worker
Min       %    Thousand         %         $         x
Agriculture             820       32         830       69          988       47
Industry                206        8          54        5         3815      182
Services               1492       60         318       2O         4691      224
TOTAL/AVERAGE      2518      100        1202      100         2095      100
GOVERNHENT FINANCE (YRIs MLn)
Z of GNP
1978/79 1979/80  1981  1982  1983  1984    1984
Current Receipts                 2161    2755  3329  3692  4401  4646         23
Carrent Expenditure              1847    2531  3325  5181  6201  5957         29
Current Deficit(-)/Surplus(+)   314       224      4 -1489 -1800 -1311        -6
Capital Expenditure              2618    2492  3683  4017  2944  3100         15
Extrabudgetary Expenditure          -     523   792  1764   922   967          5
Overall Deficit                   848    2333  2949  5262  4807  4609         23
External Assistance, Net         1904     976  2436  2851  1752  1563          8
(including Grants)
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
-    YR1s Million Outstanding End Period -
1980      1981      1982      1983    1984
Money Supply                       9180       9905    12519    15967   20364
Domestic Credit                    4956       7273    11847    15980   20928
Of which:
Claims on Government            (2017)    (4039)   (8454)  (12361) (16168)
Claims on Private Sector        (2939)    (3234)   (3393)   (3619)  (4760)
-Percentages                -
1979/80   1981    1982      1983      1984
Money Supply as 2 of GNP              63        64      69        83       100
Annual Increase CZ) in:
Money Supply                      16         8      26        28        28
Consumer Price Index              11        5        3         5        13



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (t Mln)
1978/79   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
Exports of Goods, fob                 3       13     10      5      10      9
Imports of Goods, cif            -1250   -1915  -1748  -1952  -1765  -1403
Trade Balance                     -1247   -1902  -1738  -1947  -1755  -1394
Non Factor Services, net            -36     -21    -51    -37    -51    -45
Transfers and Factor
Income, niet                     833    1084    788    924   1085    986
Official Grants                     312     148    337    468    186    142
Balance on Current Account        -138    -691   -664   -592   -535   -311
M & LT Capital, net 1/              104     452    205    188    197    150
Disbursements on loans        (114)   (467)  (262)  (232)  (220)  (213)
Repayments of loans           (-10)   (-15)  (-57)  (-44)  (-23)  (-63)
Other Capital (including
errors and omissions), net        204     200    198      93    125      65
Overall Balance (- = deficit)       170     -39   -261   -311   -213    -96
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                          DEBT SERVICES RATIO (1984) 2/
(S million)                 1984                                        Z
Total.Outstanding            2398          Total Outstanding and
of which disbursed           1688          Disbursed                     5.1
1/ Based on figures published in the Central Bank's financial statistical
bulletins.  These figures differ slightly from debt information
compiled on a loan-by-loan basis.
2/ Workers' remittances and transfers included in denominator.
EMIDA
October 1985



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A.  Statement of IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1985) 1/
Amount (t million)
Credit                                                                   (less cancellations)
Number  Year       Borrower                Purpose                         IDA   Undisbursed
Fifteen credits fully disbursed                         118.9
794    1978    Yemen Arab Republic    Highways III                       11.5       2.6
805    1978    Yemen Arab Republic    Tihama Agriculture II              10.5       0.8
837    1978    Yemen Arab Republic    Power Distribution                 10.0       2.3
880    1979    Yemen Arab Republic    Tihama Agriculture III             15.0       8.3
915    1979    Yemen Arab RepubLic    Education III                      10.0        1.7
950    1980    Yemen Arab Republic    Tbb and Dhamar Water Supply    12.0          11.5
978    1980    Yemen Arab Republic    Tihama Agriculture IV               5.5       0.8
1025    1980    Yemen Arab Republic    Fisheries Development              17.0       7.8
1067    1980    Yemen Arab Republic    S. Uplands Rural Dev. II           17.0 2/    3.0 2/
1-122    1981    Yemen Arab Republic    Industrial Development            12.0       1.8
1202    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Sanaa Urban Development            15.0       7.8
1203    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Education IV                       12.0       7.2
1216    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Petroleum & Geothermal Explor.  2.0           1.1
1259    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Agr. Research and Development   6.0           2.5
1267    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Highways IV                         7.0       2.6
1294    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Health                             10.5       6.3
1308    1982    Yemen Arab Republic    Agricultural Credit                 8.0       7.7
1340    1983    Yemen Arab Republic    Education V                        10.0       8.3
1361    1983    Yemen Arab Republic    Power III                          19.0      17.6
1413    1983    Yemen Arab Republic    Highways V                         13.0      11.1
'1441    1984    Yemen Arab Republic    Urban II                          12.0      11.1
1453    1984    Yemen Arab Republic    Central Highlands Ag. Devt.         8.0       7.7
1470    1984    Yemen Arab Republic    Education VI                       10.0      10.0
1547 31 1985    Yemen Arab Republic    Industrial Development II           8.0       8.0
1556 3i 1985    Yemen Arab Republic    TA to CPO                          4.7        4.7
1584 3/ '985    Yemen Arab Republic    Wadi A  Jawf Ag. Devt.             10.0      10.0
Total                                                   394.5
of which has been repaid                                1.3
Total now held by IDA                                   393.2
Tota l.undisbursed                                                164.3
1! The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/ Beginning with Credit 1067-YAR, credits have been denominated in Special Drawing
Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar equivalents at the
time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and the dollar equivalents as of
September 30, 1985, for the undisbursed amounts.
3/ Not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1985)
(Amount in $ millions)
Year            Obligor            Type of Business    Loan    Equity    Total
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice      Dairy Products       3.15       -        3.15
Industries Co. Ltd.
1983/   Yemen Dry Batteries        Dry Cell Batteries  3.25      0.91       4.16
1985
1984    National Company for       Vegetable Oil        4.58       -        4.58
Vegetable Oil and Ghee
Industries
1985    Yemen Hunt Oil Company    Oil Refinery          9.00       -        9.00
Total Gross Commitments                        19.98     0.91      20.89
less cancellations, terminations,            2.35        -       2.35
repayments, sales
Total commitments now held by IFC              17.63     0.91      18.54
Total Disbursed                                 1.68     0.21       1.89
Total Uindisbursed                             15.95     0.70      16.65
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of t200,OO0 each, and one of $l20,000 were approved
in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 respectively to help finance,
jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of
planning and economic advisors and later a management/administrative expert.
The Kuwait Fund provided grants of about $20O,000, t300,000 and $4Z5,000.



- 29 -                      ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
YE1EN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
SUPPLE4ENTARY PROJECr DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)    Time taken by country to prepare
project:                                   1 year
(b)    The agencies which prepared the
project:                                   NOE
(c)    Date of first presentation to IDA:            January 1984
(d)    Date of departure of appraisal mission:       February 2, 1985
(e)    Date of completion of negotiations:           October 24, 1985
Cf)    Planned date of effectiveaess:               June 1, 1985
Section II: Special Implementation Action by IDA
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(i)    The Government will, by July 1, 1986, take all action required for
the formal establishment of the National Technical Training Board
(NTTB). Twelve months following the establishment of the Board,
the Government will provide to the Association a plan for its
operation, and carry out thereafter such plan taking into account
the Association's comments (para. 57).



it    B16                                   64                                                . W  
I   .     OP hIR N   |                                                  YEMEN   ARAB   REPUBLIC
IDA-ASSISTED PROJECTS BY SECTOR
5 A U D I     ARA Bt A                                                           __ c
$                                                U2 Comeh. .,d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o AwapdawW C-& B
.r~~~~~~~,~~'                  '   I
---I %~~~~~~~~~~~~~IAO
W   t\'^':(''5^J%-> *S51\- j  }  r-  - at_- F-
g* ?   iIJ-;  ',   ,,  hZ        -        *  FT    sI,i
-    > , - r jMI-                                              -  r                      S
af  c  t    /-   ^  \   \ - ,!;:   \w-   ; - >_ I                      t   :  *   s- Lim
j~~ ~~~~~ r ----                                            im  G .01- --  
AI                                          A   M9Abu Coppash
'    |   5   v  )  ' 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                            ARGW  '  * ,
j.                                                                                                                11*
a  Noumd copw&         W.A 194
/ 9      dd~    c -                                                                         ALNM -J 
- l GU r OF ADf -W 
DEPA REP    1.. l  5. S191
-  ..~~~       CF YEAAMEI       ~
/S    h  -=  -,- , S..*aS.-.__. 9-
f.... A... L *96_
6--..g    f      -   9
AV-&-W  a -  I  ~~~~1930
9d d..T              n6u
D J I B 0 U T I     ~        
/    -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  a.~~~~~~~



IBRD 19050
r-          !\S A U D I  A R A B I A                              YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
-                                   N AJRAN
-! '---S            /   |                     >                    NA T.d.mo SI w  Schd.
-.  Ur7;< e   5                                          *  V.     Twh  Ciwt
|MARA                           -- -   =Lr=b _ kidlr C4W R PmT
J2ANaZ\  t        t   ~~~~~~SAADAH   /o_ t
-  \   o    SAA- AH  /                 r  A
0                             )                                        1Anl/p wtA
IN,                                 :mw \  A \H R^
r  .    xJ   \                 .           00 t0  _
r;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEA ;w 5 ARD       \ =t 
f X  r            ~~~~~~~~~SHIHAAU
n ~~~~~~~HAJJ A )---oD0 e
.     /A   MAH ET          AN                                        Mtn
t 1
S  S1  AMF _ ; S_                              _  B~KHA
t Uw - iNIS DRA       A
/                                          GUL   OFn  ADENHTDh      /f I  
; >, tYN ~~~~~~UDAIN ; -__
' AL HOUT.                                             - HOtPA
.-           - ,                                        - '    JUNr.|  DE MOCRAT IC   REPUBLIC
'\ 1 >rW2/ , O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F  Y E M E N
j  tillSlU~~~~ HAIfAN       
.,~~~~~~~~~~-,,N ,;1,;BoA
E T H I O P I A      ~     g~- 
oX       8                      ~~~~~~~~~GULF Of    ADEN
// D J I B OU T I                                                _               _     _
JUN E 1985






