Document of
The World Bnk
]FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
CF. /'4            w
Repvt Ngo 57t4-YAR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
November 11, 1985
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
is                            *    _e har  b W b  ecafZain .Te pe  rZZ. of
*eidr oaWdu*m lls eo_ts mn  octrwbse lbe dbdsedso witbt World Ban  ao_nft



GLOSSARY
CIDA:   Canadian International DLvelopment Agency
CPO:    Central Planning Organization
CYDA:   Confederation of Yemeni Development Associations
DTC:   District Training Center
EMENA:  Europe, Middle East and North Africa
ERDC:  Educational Research and Development Center
FRG:    Federal Republic of Germany
GSS:   General Secondary School
GTZ:    Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
ICB:    International Competitive Bidding
MOE:    Ministry of Education
NTTB:   National Technical Training Board
PCR:    Project Completion Report
PIU:    Project Implementation Unit
PPAR:   Project Performance Audit Report
PTTI:   Primary Teacher Training Institute
SBU:    School Building Unit
TA:     Technical Assistance
TSS:    Technical Secondary School
USAID:  United States Agency for International Development
VTC:   Vocational Training Center
YAR:   Yemen Arab Republic
CURRENCY EQUIVALENCY
I Yemeni Rial (YRI) = US$ 0.154
1 us$               = YRls 6.48
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to Decem'er 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBIC
TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA ............................. _......... (i)
CREDrT AND PROJECT SUM A..... . .. (ii)-(iii)
I.  NANPOHER DEVELOPMENT............. 1
Background.... 1
Technical Training  . ..........                                2
Basic Training........     ........     .....          .....   2
Vocational Training Centers (VTCs) .................. . 2
Technical Secondary Schools (TSSs) ....................... 3
Training in Other Agencies --------....................-. -3..3
Coordination ..................................................... 3
Key Issues in Technical Education and Vocational Training.. 4
Limited Supply of Skills ...................      .......... 4
Shortage of Teachers and Technical Instructors ........... 6
Finning of Subsector ................................... 7
The Administrative Structure .. .         .............. 8
Government Sector Policy and Strategy ........... ........... 8
IDA Assistance Strategy for Education and Tri .......  9
Experience with Past IDA Lending ........-.................. 9
II.      THEi PROJECr        .......................
Project Objectives and Scope. .                   ......... 11
Polytechnic, Sanaa ................ 12
Technical Secondary School (TSS). Bodeidah..                   14
Technical Secondary School (TSS), Sanaa.                       15
Vocational Training Center (VTC), Taiz            . .           15
National Technical Training Board (NTTB)           ..           16
Technical Assistance (TA) .............................. . .... 16
Bilateral Support                   .....       .       .. 17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
the Yemen Arab Republic in February 1985. The appraisal team comprised
5essrs. N.V. Corwell (vocational educator, mission leader), R.K. Go
(architect), and P. Mersier (technical educator). Mr. B.A. Laporte also
contributed to Chapter I of the report.
[is         ha a rried dimibtion and my be ued by ci*.only m the pfonnuceof
hdew dfUl dutiets conls may not oaewe be diulodd wim  World BDnk audzsbom



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
III.    PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPIEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT .... 18
Cost of the Project ....................................... 18
Summary of Project Costs ................................ 18
Basis of Cost Estimates ......                          19
Unit Capital Costs and Areas ........   20
Contingency Allowance ................................... 20
Foreign Exchange Component .............................. 20
Project Financing ......................  ......... 20
Recurrent Costs ......................................... 21
Project Implementation.                                   22
Implementation Period .22
Architectural Designs .22
Sites ................................................... 22
Furniture and Equipment Lists ...........................  22
Procurement ...................................         23
Disbursements ...................................         24
Accounts and Audits .................................... -. 25
IV.     BENEFITS AND RISKS ...................................       26
Benefits ...................................              26
(a)  Manpower Supply ...................................   26
Cb)  Institution Building ................................ 26
Cc)  Equity ...................................           26
(do  Curriculum Materials ................................ 26
Risks ..      ................                            26
V.      AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOHHENDATIONS ................ 27
ANNEXES
1. CHARTS AND TABLES:
Chart 1 - Administrative Structure of the Ministry of Education
Table 1 - Comparative Education Indicators
Table 2 - Summary Account by Project Component
Table 3 - Estimated Unit Areas and Unit Capital Costs of Project
Institutions
2. SCHEDULES:
Schedule I  - Technical Assistance Implementation Schedule
Schedule II - Implementation Schedule
Schedule III - Action Plan for Project Implementatiou
Schedule IV - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements



Table of Contents (Continued)
3. Related Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
Reports and Studies Relating to the Country
Reports and Studies Relating to Education and Training
Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
MAP
J



(i)
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL TRAIINING PROJECT
STA.'F APPRALSAL REPORT
Basic Data
1. Population (1983)
Population (resident):      7.7 million
Rate of Population Growth: 2.9? p.a.
Urban Population:          13.8? (1979/80)
Literacy Rate:             21.0?
2. Per Capita GNP (1983): US$510 a/
3. Education (1982/83)
-   As X of            Female S of
Level           Enrollment        Age Group            Age GrOUP
Primary          652,050            52.4                   15.5
Lover Secondary   47,303              8.8                   2.1
Upper Secondary    17,255             3.4                   0.7
Higher              6,872             1.4                   0.3
4. Expenditures on Education (1984)
Recurrent as a percentage of all recurrent expenditures:   19.6
Capital as a percentage of all capital expenditures:       12.0
Total as a percentage of all expenditures:                 17.7
Total as a percentage of GNP:                               7.9
a/ World Bank Atlas Methodology



(ii)
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit and Proiect Sumary
Borrower:    Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Beneficiary: Ministry of Education (MOE)
Amount:       Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 12.0 million
(approximately US$12.7 million equivalent)
Terms:        Standard
Project       The proposed project would assist the YAR Government in
Description:  implementing priority programs in technical education and vocational
training to alleviate acute shortages of technical manpower at the
technician and skilled worker levels.  It would also provide the
Government for the first time with the capability of training
technical/vocational instructors, thereby indirectly reducing the
cost of overseas instructor trdining and of hiring expatriate
instructors. Moreover, the proposed project would systematize and
rationalize technical education and vocational training programs
through the establishment of a National Technical Training Board
(NTTB). Specifically, the proposed project would: (a) establish a
two-year post-secondary polytechnic in Sana; (b) establish a
technical secondary school in Hodeidah; (c) replace two workshops and
re-equip the technical secondary school in San*a; (d) relocate an
existing vocational training center in Taiz; (e) establish an
instructor training program at the proposed polytechnic in Sanaa; and
(f) provide consultancy services for the above and to assist the
Government in establishing the NTTB.
Benefits:     The proposed project would assist the Government in its efforts to
alleviate acute shortages of trained technicians and skilled workers,
which constrain economic development, by adding some 450 trained
workers to the annual supply. It would also reduce both the need for
overseas training of Yemenis and the cost of hiring expatriate
instructors by providing about 35 Yemeni technical/vocational
instructors annually. The project would also improve access to
training for lower income groups who traditionally enroll in
vocational training and technical education programs.  The new
curriculum materials to be developed under the project would be
disseminated to all the technical training centers thereby improving
the quality of such training in the country.
Risks:        The proposed project is fully consistent with the Government's
priorities. The Project Implementation Unit in the MOE has acquired
considerable experience through previous IDA-supported projects and
has established a solid record of effective implementation. There
are no significant risks with the possible exception of the NTTB's
ability to translate policy decisions into action programs. However,
the NITB, unlike the previous coordinating entity, will have a
permanent, full-time staff, thereby minimizing the risk.



(iii)
Estimated Proiect Costs
Local      Foreign      Total
IUS$million
A. Polytechnic, Sanaa                        2.7         4.9         7.6
B. Technical Secondary School, Hodeida      1.5          2.1         3.6
C. Technical Secondary School, Sanaa        0.2          0.7         0.9
D. Vocational Training Cencer, Taiz          1.7         2.6         4.3
E. Technical Assistance                     0.8          3.4         4.2
Total Baseline Costs                        6.9         13.7        20.6
Physical contingencies                0.7          1.2         1.9
Price contingencies                   1.9          3.7         5.6
Total Project Costs                          9.5        18.6        28.1
Financing Plan
Government                            8.2          0.0         8.2
IDA                                   0.0        12.7         12.7
Other External Sources                1.3          5.9         7.2
Total                               9.5         18.6        28.1
Estimated Disbursements
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year    1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Annual             0.5    0.5    2.2    3.2    3.7    1.7    0.7      0.2
Cumulative         0.5    1.0    3.2    6.4   10.1   11.8   12.5    12.7
Rate of Return: Not applicable



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT-
Background
1.01    As late as 1970, the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) was still an
isolated and highly traditional country, with a very low national income
derived almost exclusively from agriculture. The end of the-civil war in
that year permitted a start to be made on the pressing task of developing
the country. Since 1970, much has been achieved: for example, a central
administration has been established and a thriving modern sector of the
economy has been developed. Accomplishments in the human resources
sector are equally impressive. The Government has developed a
well-articulated strategy for basic education and, with assistance from
IDA and other donors, has expanded primary education coverage from 12X of
the relevant school-age population in 1971 to 52 in 1983. Although
there are continuing needs for further expansion in basic education, the
supply of individuals with basic education is now sufficient to expand
training programs which will equip primary graduates with skills required
in the labor market.
1.02     The dire need for skilled manpower became immediately obvious
once the move to develop and diversify the economy began and bas
intensified in recent years. The Government responded, with rnA
assistance, by developing a range of occupationally oriented programs
including diversified secondary education, vocational training (MOE and
other ministries and agencies) and basic skills training in the rural
district training centers (DTCs). Further development of special
training programs geared to urgent labor market needs and planning for
the coherent and orderly development of such training is now a timely and
high priority.
L.03    At the post-secondary level, the University of Sanaa is now
well-established with five fully operational faculties- education,
sciences, economics and commerce, arts and modern and Islamic Law. A
faculty of engineering is under construction (the civil engineering
department being assisted under the IDA-supported Fourth Education
Project). However, the absence of post-secondary training for
technicians to complement scientific and engineering professionals and
the lack of technical instructor training programs represent gaps in the
system which now must be filled.
1.04     Public expenditures on education and training have risen through
the 1970s and early 1980s reflecting the fast growth in school
enrollment. By 1984, education expenditures represented about 17.7Z of
all government expenditures and were 7.9% of GNP. Education capital
expenditures in the same year absorbed 12.0% of the national capital
expenditure budget and 19.61 of the national recurrent budget. Although
these figures are not excessively high for a country at this level of
development, education expenditures should be closely monitored as the



-2-
system expands its coverage of primary school-age children and offerings
are diversified at the secondary and post-seccndary levels.
Technical Training
1.05     The Government laid the foundations for technical training in
the mid-to-late 1970s. The 1977 Education Law assigned responsibility to
the Ministry of Education (MOE) for the establishment of appropriate
programs for the development of a technically skilled labor force.
Currently, there are non-formal training programs, the Basic Training
Scheme, and formal programs at the preparatory (grades 7-9) and secondary
(grades 10-12) levels, and to a very limited extent, at the
post-secondary level. The range of skill training offered within the
MOE's programs and in programs administered by other agencies is
commendable, although it should be emphasized that, both in terms of
coverage and depth of training, the system is still in its infancy.
1.06     Basic Training.  The MOE initiated the Basic Training Scheme in
1975. It is a flexible, non-formal program of basic skill and literacy
training for rural areas, which is provided in DTCs. With IDA assistance
under the First and Second Education Projects (Credits 421-YAR and
611-YAR), a total of seven DTCs were established. These centers became
fully operational in 1979/80. Three additional DTCs are being financed
under the Fifth Education Project (Credit 1340-YAR). The number of
participants in DTC training programs has multiplied ten-fold from 2,200
in 1979/80 to 22,000 in 1983/84.
1.07     Vocational Training Centers (VTCs).  Again with IDA assistance
under the first two education projects, four VTCs were established at
Sanaa, Taiz, Hodeidah and Dhamar. These centers offer two-year programs
for primary school graduates in trades such as mechanics, automotive,
electricity, plumbing, metalwork, building construction and carpentry.
Although total enrollments have increased from 244 students in 1979/80 to
570 students in 1984/85, enrollments vary considerably among centers.
The Sanaa and Hodeidah VTCs, each of which offers six trade courses, have
enrollments (1984/85) of 283 and 194, respectively, and are operating at
full capacity. The Taiz and Dhamar VTCs, each of which currently offers
only two trade courses, have enrollments of only 50 and 43, respectively.
In the case of the Taiz VTC the MOE gave priority to the development of
the technical secondary school (TSS) on the same campus which absorbed
some of the VTC's facilities. In the case of the Dhamar VTC, which
became operational in 1980/81, there is an urgent need for a more
vigorous effort by the VTC management to publicize the offerings of the
VTC in the local area.
1.08     Under a bilateral technical assistance agreement with the
Federal Repub'.ic of Germany (FRG), the Sanaa VTC curriculum has been
completely revised and updated. The revised curriculum has been
successfully tested and implemented at the Sanaa VTC by the FRG training
specialists and the local instructors, and is now available for use in
all four VTCs. The VTC programs are about 60% practical and 40%
theoretical, which is an appropriate balance.



- 3 -
1.09     Most of the VTC instructors are expatriate (para. 1.22) since
there are no in-country facilities for training instructors. The Sanaa
VTC is exceptional in that it is almost fully staffed (except for two FRG
training specialists) by 25 Yemeni instructors who are TSS graduates who
have received additional training in the FRG under bilateral technical
assistance.
1.10     VTC graduates have excellent job prospects as shown by the
result of a tracer study on a sample of 1981 graduates of the Sanaa VTC.
All of the graduates in the sample found employment in the trades for
which they were trained and are reported to be currently earning at least
YRls 3,000 per month, a remuneration which exceeds the average modern
sector monthly salary in similar trades.
1.11     Technical Secondary Schools (TSS).  There are currently only two
TSSs, located in Sanaa and Taiz. The combined 1984/85 enrollment of the
two schools is 620, representing a considerable increase over the 1971/72
total of 180. These schools admit students who have completed
preparatory level (grade 9) and passed an entry examination. The
curriculum is sound and balanced. Approximately 40% of the weekly
workload is devoted to practical work. Progression and retention rates
at both TSSs are good and students are highly motivated. Graduates have
no difficulty in finding public or private sector employment.
1.12     The majority of technical instructors in the TSSs are
expatriates (para. 1.22). The proposed project provides for the
establishment of a local capability for training Yemeni instructors
(para. 2.13).
1.13     Training in Other Agencies.  In addition to the MOE, several
other ministries/agencies are involved in vocational training. At the
skilled and semi-skilled worker level, the Ministries of Labor,
Communications, Electricity and Water, and Public Works have one VTC
each, with a combined annual output of about 450 skilled and semi-skilled
workers. At the upper secondary level, the Ministries of Communications,
Electricity and Water, and Health have one training institute each, with
a combined annual output of about 230 graduates in various
specializations. Moreover, a large number of Yemenis receive advanced
education and training abroad, typically financed under technical
assistance components of externally assisted projects or under bilateral
scholarship programs.
Coordination
1.14     A Nat-onal Council for Technical and Vocational Education was
established in 1977 to set policies, define programs and coordinate
activities in the training field. However, this Council was never
effective because: (a) it consisted of four Ministers concerned with
training, whose other duties and responsibilities prevented them from
meeting regularly; and (b) it lacked a technical secretariat to implement
the decisions made. The MOE intends to abolish the Council and replace
it with the National Technical Training Board (NTTB) proposed under this
project. The NTTB would be a permanent body with a full-time staff
responsible to an advisory committee under the chairmanship of the
Minister of Education (para. 2.24).



- 4 -
Key Issues in Technical Education and Vocational Training
1.15     The key issues pertaining to technical/vocational education and
training are: the limited supply of skills, the shortage of teachers and
instructors, the financing of the subsector and the weakness of the
administrative structure.
1.16     Limited Supply of Skills.  Skilled manpower limitations have
beset overall economic development for the past two decades. The demands
upon the vocational training and technical education system arise from
the need to satisfy a rapidly growing economy, to replace expatriates by
qualified Yemenis, and to improve the level of skills of a labor force
which has a low level of education and training.
1.17     Recently, MDA and the MOE completed a review of the subsector of
vocational training and technical education. 1/ Part of this review
included an assessment of the prospective demand for technically trained
manpower and the supply from the education and training system.
Quantitative and qualitative deficits in most technical occupations are
likely to persist for some years as a result of: (a) the low level of
training in the current workforce; (b) the presently high dependence upon
expatriates; (c) the rapid increase in skilled labor demand due to
relatively high rates of economic growth experienced since the early
1970s; (d) the country's proximity to oil-surplus countries which has
facilitated the emigration of skilled manpower; and (e) the increasing
sophistication of the economy which will require an increasing number of
well-trained technicians and skilled workers.
1.18     On the basis of this study and information collected during the
mission, IDA has estimated labor demand and supply for key occupational
groups, namely: technicians, junior technicians and skilled workers
(Table 1.1). Standard projection techniques and sectoral growth rate
estimates have been used for projecting labor demand. Given the
variation in the estimates of oil production in YAR, which is expected to
start by the end of the decade, these projections are based on the
assumption of a moderate economic growth scenario which assumes revenues
from oil production of about 100,000 barrels per day. Even combining the
output of existing schools and the proposed institutions under the
project, aggregate annual supply of technicans and skilled workers (about
2,400) represents no more than l7% of demand in 1992 (para. 1.19,
Table 1.1).
1.19     The apparent wide gap between demand and supply should be
interpreted cautiously. Not all employers are yet sufficiently
sophisticated to appreciate fully the value of appropriately trained
manpower. Consequently, the effective demand for formally trained
workers heretofore has remained limited to the larger, modern sector
enterprises. Thus, the demand figures for technicians are firm as
virtually all technicians are employed in such organizations. In the
1/ World Bank R2port. YAR Special Study on Vocational Training and
Technical Education.  (Report Number 5518-YAR dated August 5, 1985).



case of skilled workers, however, small establishments account for a
significant proportion of this category and it is these employers who are
slower to recognize the economic value of a properly trained workforce.
Table 1.1:   ESTIMATED DEMAND FOR TECHNICIANS, JUNIOR TECHNICIANS
AND SKILLED WORKERS, 1991-95 AND SUPPLY FROM THE
TRAINING SYSTEM, 1991-95 and 1992
Occupational           1991-95 b/   Supply/Demand    1992 b/ Supply/Demand
Group a/                                   Z                         X
Technicians
Demand                 8,820                       1,760
Supply                   720        8.2              180           10.2
(of which project
institutions"           (720)                       (180)
graduates)
Junior Technicians
-  Demand                 17,310                      3,460
Supply                 5,170        29.9           1,060           30.6
(of which project
institutions,           (440)                       (110)
graduates)
Skilled Workers
Demand                45,290                       9,060
Supply                 5,850        12.9           1,170           12.9
(of which project
institutions'           (800)                       (160)
graduates)
SOURCE: Bank Staff Working Papers
a/  Two time periods are used in this assessment-1991-95, the first year of
the period corresponds to the year the first graduates from project
institutions enter the labor market; 1992, the year the output from
project institutions reaches its anticipated maximum.
b/  The broad occupational groups used in the table correspond to supply
institutions as follows:
Technicians-Polytechnic
Junior Technicians-Technical Secondary Schools and equivalent
Skilled Workers-Vocational Training Centers and equivalent.



- 6 -
1.20     The manpower demand estimates show, as indicated in Table 1.1, that
over the period 1991-95, graduates from all the existing and proposed
training institutions are expectece to meet about 13Z of the projected
additional needs for skilled workers and 30Z of the projected additional
needs for junior technicians. As far as technicians are concerned, there is
presently no training at that level in YAR. The graduates of the proposed
polytechnic would meet about 8% of the projected additional demand for
technicians over the period 1991-95 and 10 of the projected additional
demand in 1992. These low percentages reflect the fact that the country's
technical and vocational training system is still in an embryonic stage.
Reliance on skilled expatriate labor will continue although an objective of
this proposed project and previous IDA-assisted projects in the sector is to
decrease the level of this dependence over time.
1.21     Shortage of Teachers and Technical Instructors. The very large
shortage of teachers and technical instructors has placed a heavy burden on
public finance. In primary education, for instance, the number of expatriate
teachers in 1982/83 was 11,000 (85Z of the total), a reflection of the
paucity of supply of Yemeni teachers and the rapid growth in the demand for
teachers in Yemen. The Government has adopted several policies to encourage
Yemenis to follow the teaching profession. Recently it has improved their
salary and conditions of service, and teachers are now well paid by YAR
standards. In addition, and partly with IDA assistance, sustained efforts
have been made by the Government to increase the facilities for teacher
training.
1.22    A similar situation prevails in the vocational training and
technical education subsectors. Yemeni technical teachers have generally
been trained abroad or are trained cn the job by non-Yemeni teachers. Staff
development of technical and vocational instructors in the form of formal
refresher and upgrading courses in YAR is virtually non-existent. Fellowship
training has been provided under multilateral and bilateral technical
assistance programs. The Government has made significant progress in the
provision of trained technical instructors in the period 1980/81-1984/85 in
the DTCs, VTCs and TSSs (Table 1.2); however, these efforts remain very
modest relative to requirements.
Table 1.2: EVOLUTION OF THE NUMBER OF YEMENI TECHNICAL/
VOCATIONAL INSTRUCTORS FROM 1980/81-1984/85
-       1980/81                           1984/85
Yemeni   Expatriate  Total      Yemeni   Expatriate  Total
District Training       0          34        34         10          43       53
Centers                                             (19%)
Vocational Training     5          10        15         32          86      118
Centers            (33Z)                            (27Z)
Technical Secondary     2          25        27         12          72       84
Schools             (7%)                            (14%)
SOURCE: MOE



1.23     The proposed project would assist the MOE in addressing this issue
through the provision of instructor training in the proposed Polytechnic
(para. 2.13). A total of 36 graduates of the technician training program will
annually receive an intensive one-year program of instructor training to
become instructors in the DTCs, VTCs and TSSs and training officers in
industrial enterprises.
1.24     Financing of Subsector. The Government has prudently foreseen that
the continued expansion and diversification of the education and training
system would require that all possible avenues for improving efficiency,
cost-effectiveness and mobilization of alternative financial resources be
explored. This concern led the Government to request IDA assistance for a
study on education finance.l/ The study showed that the unit costs of
education as a percentage of GNP per capita were much higher in YAR than in a
sample of EMENA region countries.21 The reasons for these high unit costs
include the absence of multigrade and multisubject teaching, the high
salaries, which have been necessary in order to attract and retain teachers,
and the comparatively high capital expenditures on the education system due to
its early stage of development. The Government has takec this issue very
seriously and has executed several measures aimed at avoiding waste and
promoting efficiency. These measures include standardization of designs and
better use of local materials in school building, recruitment or training of
multisubject and multigrade primary teachers, and using multiple class shifts
in urban schooLs.
1.2-5    On the revenue side, there are already a number of modest
administrative fees and user charges that are in effect and the Government is
considering raising some of these and introducing others. However, the
revenue that can be expected from all of these fees is negligible relative to
the cost of education. In fact, the Government still provides a number of
services such as transportation, books, and some food free of charge as an
incentive to students. Given the strength of the demand for education that
has been exhibited over the last live years or so, the Government should now
consider eliminating these incentives which it can ill afford and, in fact,
consider the introduction of modest tuition fees at least at the university
level.
1/  YAR Education Special Study-Administration and Finance, World Bank Report
No. 4020-YAR, August 1982.
2/ Countries included are Algeria, Cyprus, Jordan, Morocco, Portugal, Syria,
Tunisia, Turkey, and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen.



-8-
1.26     MOE training programs also have an incentive system for trainees
(e.g. free boarding and some stipends in some cases). It is still premature
to eliminate these incentives and impose levies as it is only recently that
some of the training institutions have started operating at, or close to, full
capacity. However, as the system matures, it should be possible to ask
employers to contribute to the cost of training their employees. The MOE
currently lacks the capacity to conduct the studies necessary to formulate a
viable levy system. The NTTB proposed under this project would, among other
things, help overcome this deficiency (para. 2.24).
1.27     The Administrative Structure. Under the Second Five-Year Plan
(1982-86), the establishment of a national technical training board (NTTB) has
been envisaged for the planning, coordination and development of training
programs. The NTTB would replace the National Council for Technical and
Vocational Education which was established in 1977. The Council has been
generally ineffective, mainly because it was comprised of ministerial level
officials who rarely met and lacked an executive secretariat to follow through
on its recommendations. The new Board is expected to be provided with the
authority and resources needed to carry out its functions. As a number of
technical ministries have entered the field of vocational and technical
education in addition to the MOE, and in view of the impending establishment
of the MOE's polytechnic, there is an urgent need for a coordinating body for
technical training programs (paras. 1.14 and 2.24).
1.28     The day-to-day administration of technical training programs is the
responsibility of the Directorate of Technical and Vocational Education in the
MOE (Annex 1, Chart 1). The MOE sensibly intends to strengthen this
Directorate and has requested the services of a vocational training specialist
for two years from the FRG to help improve the organization and operation of
the Directorate as well as to help improve staff capability through the
provision of on-the-job training. This action, together with the proposed
NTTB (para. 2.25), would substantially improve the Directorate's ability in
administering the programs.
Government Sector Policy and Strategy
1.29     The Government's development strategy as expressed in the Second Five
Year Plan (1982-86) aims at the expansion of basic education and teacher
training and at a more balanced geographical distribution of educational
opportunities, with a stronger emphasis on the development of rural areas,
greater participation of women in education and employment, and the
development of a modern system of technical education and vocational training.
1.30     The establishment of a sound educational infrastructure, capable of
supporting and promoting manpower development, is regarded as a major
objective of the Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86). Specific programs in the
Plan which are of particular relevance to technical education and vocational
training include the following:
(a) expansion of technical and vocational training to meet lower and
middle-level manpower requirements, including the establishment of a
polytechnic institute to prepare technicians;



- 9 -
(b)  improving the quality of the administration of technical education
and vocational training programs through the establishment of a
NTTB ; and
(c) the development and modernization of curricula in order to improve
education and training.
The Government's sector policy and strategy is sound and implementation of the
above programs is considered necessary and urgent for the continued
socio-economic developmeat of the country.
IDA Assistance Strategy for Education and Training
1.31 Given the recent character of the principal education and training
programs in YAR, IDA's assistance strategy has been broad-based, seeking to
develop these programs into a modern education system. Initially, this
strategy called for priority emphasis on the general basic education system;
while laying the foundations for vocational training and technical education
to meet urgent and pressing manpower demands, including the Basic TrainLing
Scheme, the VICs, and the TSSs. It has also included expanding teacher
training for primary, secondary and teeh-icalfvocational education aimed at,
inter alia, reducing the expensive dependence upon expatriate teachers.
Accordingly, IDA has supported teacher training institutions and programs in
several projects.  In more recent projects, IDA has helped estab'ish higher
education programs in critical areas such as engineering and strengthen
institutional capacity to administer education programs and develop sound
educational policies, in particular through expert services to advise the MOE
and through the creation of the Education Research and Development Center
(ERDC). Given the rapid growth of the educational and training system, IDA
h-s also provided assistance in the preparation of two studies to examine
measures to control costs and to achieve a more efficient utilization of
resources.
Experience with Past IDA Lending
1.32     IDA's involvement in the education and training sector started in
1973. The First Education Project (Credit 421-YAR), completed in 1980,
provided support for expanding and upgrading primary and secondary teacher
training, establishing training programs for skilled workers and junior
technicians and launching the non-formal Basic Training Scheme for
out-of-school youths and adults. The project performance audit report (PPfl)
and the project completion report (PCR) noted the significant contribution of
the project towards institutional improvements within MOE, both in terms of
administration, planning, and curriculum development, and the strengthening of
local capabilities for designing and supervising school building
construction. The Second Education Project (Credit 611-YAR), completed in
1982, reinforced and expanded the major thrust of the first project in the
areas of teacher training, vocational training and basic education; it also
supported the basic training fund as part of the Basic Training Scheme and
supported the local production of educational materials. The PPAR and the PCR
comnented that implementation was timely and effective and that educational
objectives were generally met; they also noted the significant impact of the
DTI-s on rural development by successfully meeting local needs for training
through the support of the basic training fund, and by the time of project



- 10 -
completion, the full utilization of the primary teacher training institutes
(PITIs) for females. The Third Education Project (Credit 915-YAR), approved
in 1979, supported the Government's aim of expanding secondary education in
agriculture and livestock practices and strengthening public administration.
Pre-investment feasibility studies related to basic health-care training
included in the project led to an IDA-assisted health project. The.Fourth
Education Project (Credit 1203-YAR), approved in 1982, is designed to increase
the utilization of the then existing PTTIs and VTCs, to meet a serious
shortage of Yemeni engineers through the establishment of an Engineering
College in Sanaa University, and to strengthen MOE's capacity to undertake
educational policy studies through the establishment of an Educational
Research and Development Center (ERDC). The Fifth Education Project (Credit
1340-YAR), approved in March 1983, supports the establishment of a first
"tranche" of PTTIs in rural areas; it also provides further support to the DTC
network in rural areas, supported by a Basic Training Facility for funding
village training programs. The Sixth Education Project (Credit 1470-YAR),
approved in April 1984, further supports teacher training by implementing a
second "tranche" of PTTIs in rural areas, helps establish a senior PTTI, and
provides further assistance for the expansion of DTCs in rural communities.
The Third to Sixth Education Projects are progressing satisfactorily. Along
with the roposed project, they form a cohesive core of IDA-assisted projects
in the sector that emphasize basic education and training in line with the
country's most urgent needs.
1.33     Lessons learned from the implementation of the above completed and
ongoing projects and applied to the design of the proposed technical training
project include: (a) the provision by the Borrower of appropriate incentives
(allowances, boarding, etc.) to attract trainees to the teaching profession
and to technical training; (b) the importance of counterpart training;
Cc) the utilization o"f imported materials for civil works with which local
contractors are unfamiliar, should be kept to the necessary minimum; and
(d) directors for new project schools and training centers should be appointed
in the early stages of the project so that they can make input to both the
adequacy of the classroom layouts and the installation of equipment.



- 11 -
II. THE PROJECT
2.01     The proposed project was prepared by the Government subsequent to an
IDA identification mission in June 1984 and a preparation mission in October
1984. The project was appraised in February 1985.
Project Objectives and Scope
2.02     The proposed project would assist the Government in implementing
priority technical education and vocational training programs to alleviate
acute shortages of technical manpower at the technician and skilled worker
levels. The equity concerns of the Government would also be served by these
programs as trainees would be drawn heavily from lower income groups and all
programs would admit females. The proposed project would also provide the
Government with the capability (currently non-existent) of training
technical/vocational instructors locally, thereby reducing the Government's
dependency on overseas training and need for costly expatriate instructors.
Additionally, the proposed project would provide for the national coordination
of technical education and vocational training programs through the
establishment of a NITB. The proposed project items are fully consistent with
priority items included in the YAR's current Five-Year Development Plan
(1982-86) and with IDA strategy for lending in the YAR.
2.03     Specifically, the proposed project would:
(a) improve the quality and increase the quantity of trained technical
manpower by (i) establishing a two-year, post-secondary Polytechnic
in Sanaa; (ii) establishing a TSS in Hodeidah; (iii) re-equipping an
existing TSS in Sanaa; and (iv) relocating an existing VTC in Taiz;
(b) increase the quantity of well-trained Yemeni technical/vocational
instructors and reduce the number of expatriate instructors by
establishing an instructor training program at the proposed Sanaa
Polytechnic; and
(c) strengthen the planning and organization of technical/vocational
education and training by providing expert services to assist the
Government in establishing a NITB.
2.04     The proposed project would include provision for:
(a)  construction, equipment and furniture for a new Polytechnic in Sanaa,
and a new TSS in Hodeidah, and a replacement VTC in Taiz;
(b) extension, equipment and furniture for the existing TSS in Sanaa; and
(c) technical assistance (248 months of consultancy services and 310
months of fellowships) related to the above project components, 18
months of consultancy services for the establishment of the NTTB and
26 months of consultancy services for preinvestment designs for
follow-up projects.



- 12 -
2.05    The number of places to be equipped or re-equipped is as follows:
Estimated
Number of Places      Total   Boarding   Annual
Institution       Grades   Equipped  Re-equipped  Capacity  Places    Output
Polytechnic, Sanaa
(a) Technician
Training        13-14     200          0         384       180       180
(b) Instructor
Training        15         36          0          36        20        34
Technical Secondary
School, Hodeidah    10-12     160          0         360       180       110
Technical Secondary
School, Sanaa      10-12       0        140         300         0        90
Vocational Tr.-tining
Center, Taiz        N/A      180          0         360       180       160
Total estimated annual output -                                    574
Polytechnic, Sanaa
2.06    The proposed project would assist the Government in establishing a
two-year, post-secondary (Grades 13-14) Polytechnic in Sanaa. The Polytechnic
would be the first of its kind in YAR. Its primary purpose would be training
technicians for employment in the manufacturing, transportation and
construction industries. It would also have an instructor training program,
one-year in duration (grade 15), to train vocational/technical instructors.
2.07    A feasibility study for the establishment of the Polytechnic, funded
by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), has been carried out
by Canadian consultants. The study includes needs assessment, development of
a master curriculum plan, course outlines, and preparation of preliminary
equipment lists and preliminary building design. The study has been reviewed
by IDA and is satisfactory.
2.08    The technician training program at the Polytechnic would consist of
four semesters taken over a two-year period. Each semester would be 16 weeks
in duration. Students would receive an average of 30 hours in instruction per
week, 60Z practical and 40Z theoretical, an appropriate balance. The
Polytechnic would have four main technology departments for
electrical-electronics, automotive, construction, and mechanical-industrial
manufacturing technology and specializacions would be offered in each of these
four areas. Each specialization would have an average class size of 20
students which is appropriate.



- 13 -
2.09     The Polytechnic would have a total enrollment capacity of 420 with
estimated outputs of 180 technicians and 34 instructors annually. The
technician program would admit graduates of both general secondary schools
(GSS) and TSS. During the first semester at the Polytechnic, GSS graduates
would be strengthened in the areas of technical knowledge and skills while the
TSS graduates would be strengthened in the areas of science and mathematics.
Both streams would commence a common program during the second semester. The
Polytechnic would also accept other applicants for the technician training
program provided they pass an entrance examination. It is expected that some
10% of the enrollment will be females. Incentives to attract trainees which
were found successful in previous IDA-assisted vocational education projects
(pAra. 1.33) will be continued for all trainees in new project institutions.
2.10     Course outlines, including itemized topic lists and corresponding
lists of experiments and laboratory/workshop exercises, and preliminary
equipment lists, have already been prepared under the CIDA study for all
specializations and these are satisfactory. The project technical assistance
component would include a total of 133 months of consultancy services for the
development of detailed curriculum materials and to assist in in-country
counterpart training.
2.11     Final equipment lists and bid documents are expected to be completed
by J-une 1986. The site for the Polytechnic has already been acquired by the
MOE and is satisfactory.
2.12     The Polytechnic would be staffed by 39 professionals including 6
administrators (director, deputy director, and heads of the mechanical,
electrical, automotive, construction and instructor training departments). The
director of the Polytechnic has been appointed and participated in
negotiations. The instnrctional staff would include 19 technical instructors,
11 teachers and 3 instructor trainers. The instructional staff would be
recruited from among graduates of the faculties of mechanical, electrical and
civil engineering, science, and education at Sanaa University. Specialized
training in teaching methodology could be provided for new instructional
staff, where required, in the Polytechnic's instructor training department.
Nine overseas fellowships of 24 months each would be included in the technical
assistance component of the project for the training of technical
instructional staff. The MOE has decided that it will make "twinning"
arrangements with similar polytechnics abroad with a view to exchange of
teacning staff, curriculum materials and experience and is currently
discussing details with the bilateral technical assistance agency (para.
2.28). This arrangement should enhance the development of the Polytechnic.
2.13     The Polytechnic instructor training department would admit 36
graduates of the technician training program annually for an intensive,
one-year program of instructor training. Other qualified applicants could
also be admitted to the program. The program would include eight weeks of
concentrated practical training, either in the polytechnic workshops or in
local industry. Supervised practice teaching would also be included in the
program. The department staff would include a department head and two
instructor trainers recruited from among graduates of the Faculty of Education
at Sanaa University. The two instructor trainers would be provided with
industrial internships in local industries (4 months duration) and fellowship



- 14 -
training prior to commencing their instructor training activities. Graduates
of the program would be employed as instructors in the TSSs, VTCs, DTCs, and
as training officers in industrial enterprises.
2.14     Course outlines, including itemized topic lists, have already been
prepared for the instructor training program under the CIDA study and are
satisfactory. The project technical assistance component would include 30
months of consultancy services for preparation of instructional materials and
course syllabi and to assist with the start-up phase of the program. Overseas
fellowships would be provided for the two instructor trainers and the
department head (12 months duration each) and the Polytechnic director would
have a seven-months study visit abroad in the organization, management and
supervision of polytechnic institutes.
2.15     In summary, the proposed project component for the Polytechnic would
include provisions for construction, equipment and technical assistance. The
technical assistance component would include a total of 163 months of
consultancy services for curriculum develepment and assistance during the
start-up phase of the institute and a total of 259 months of fellowships for
staff training.
Technical Secondary School (TSS), Hodeidah
2.16     The proposed project would provide construction, equipment and
technical assistance for the establishment of a third TSS (grades 10-12) to be
located at Hodeidah which is the largest Yemeni Red Sea port and the capital
of a governorate.  Hodeidah has a high population density and, compared with
other governorates, a relatively large preparatory school (grades 7-9)
enrolliw'at-ovez 5,000 in 1984/85--which will provide qualified entrants.  The
site frr the school has already been selected and acquisition proceedings are
we' 1 advanced. Preliminary designs have been reviewed by IDA and are
satisfactory. The capacity of the school would be 360 with an estimated output
of 110 graduates annually. Employment prospects for graduates are good.
2.17     The organization and basic curriculum of the Hodeidah TSS would be
similar to the Sanaa and Taiz TSSs (paras. 2.19 and 2.21) except that the
specializations offered would be related to the needs of the labor market in
Hodeidah. The four specializations would be automotive,
electricity/electronics, marine maintenance, and refrigeration and
air-conditioning. Course outlines and basic equipment lists are currently
under preparation and are scheduled for completion by January 1986. Six
months of consultancy services would be provided under the project for the
development of instructional materials for the four specializations.
2.18     The staff of the TSS would be recruited from among graduaces of the
faculties of education, science, and mechanical and civil engineering at Sanaa
University. The project technical assistance component would include overseas
training (12 months) for four technical instructors and overseas training
(three months) in school management for the director of the TSS. The
Government has already considered the appointment of a director for the TSS
and is evaluating candidates from among the experienced staff of the Sanaa TSS.



- 15 -
Technical Secondary School (TSS), Sanaa
2.19     The Sanaa TSS was established in 1971/72.  Much of the original
equipment is obsolete, unserviceable and in urgent need of replacement. In
addition, two-of the existing workshops (electrical/electronic and building
construction) are too small to permit adequate instruction and need to be
replaced. The proposed project would, therefore, include provision for
re-equipping about 80Z of the laboratories and workshops and for construction
of two new workshops for the electrical and building construction
specializations. Adequate space is available at the TSS for the construction
of the new workshops. Construction of the new workshops will not interfere
with normal TSS operations. The two old workshops will be used as storage
rooms.
2.20     The Sanaa TSS has a maximum capacity of 300 students and 300 boarding
places. Actual enrollment during the 1984/85 school year is 240. It is
anticipated that enrollments will continue to increase gradually and should
improve substantially with modernization of the school. Although enrollment
in the TSS is open to females, very few have been attracted to date. The TSS
offers four specializations: automotive, electrical/electronics, building
construction, and road construction. The programs in all four specializations
need updating of instructional materials. Three months of consultancy
services would be provided under the proposed project to update the
instructional materials in line with the new equipment.
Vocational TraininR Center (VTC), Taiz
2.21     The VTC at Taiz shares facilities with the existing TSS and, given
the priority attached to development of the TSS (one of only two such
institutions in Yemen), the TSS has expanded into the VTC premises. During
the 1984/85 school year there was room for only 50 students in the VTC (in
welding and fitting courses), whereas the TSS had 380 students enrolled. At
the same time, the Government anticipated reorganizing the VTC program on the
lines of the "rry successful Sanaa VTC which is being assisted by the FRG.
2.22     rhe proposed new VTC at Taiz would have a capacity of 360 students
and an estimated annual output of 160 graduates from the two-year program.
Females would be accepted if they choose to enroll. Twelve specializations
would be offered: auto-mechanics, auto-electricity, auto-body, heavy vehicles,
plant maintenance, refrigeration and air-conditioning, industrial production,
welding, electrical maintenance, electric motors, radio and TV and process
control. Employment prospects for graduates in these specializations are
particularly good in the rapidly growing urban area of Taiz, which has a heavy
concentration of industry. The instructional programs for each specialization
are satisfactory and well-balanced and would include 60Z practical and 40%
theoretical instruction.
2.23     The proposed IDA Credit would finance the physical facilities for the
VTC. Equipment and for staff training and preparation of instructional
materials and course syllabi would be provided under bilateral arrangements
with the FRG (para. 2.28). The physical facilities would include a dormitory
to accommodate 180 students.



- 16 -
National Technical Training Board (NTTB)
2.24    The MOE would be the responsible agency for the NTTB.  The MOE has
prepared draft legislation for the establishment of the NTTB. The draft
legislation was reviewed by IDA and is satisfactory. The Government provided
assurances at negotiations that the NTTB would be established by July 1, 1986
(para. 5.01(b)). The NTTB would function as a permanent body with a staff of
at least six full-time professionals and support staff. It would include a
high-level, advisory/steering committee consisting of deputy ministers from
ministries with training activities and senior representatives of employers in
public and private industry. The chairman of the advisory/steering committee
would be the Minister of Education. The major responsibilities of the NTTB
would include: preparation of a national policy for training, development of
plans for policy implementation, monitoring implementation of plans and
preparation of annual reports on training. In carrying out its
responsibilities for policy formulation and program coordination, the NTTB
would: (a) liaise with the manpower department of the Central Planning
Organization (CPO) for manpower needs assessment in the light of the national
development strategy. This department, which is responsible for overall
manpower planning involving aggregate manpower demand/supply balances, is
expected to receive technical assistance from the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID); (b) cooperate and contract with the ERDC
for implementation of studies such as tracer studies, feasibility of training
levy systems and cost-effectiveness studies, etc.; and (c) cooperate with the
MOE's Directorate of Technical and Vocational Education for implementation of
a skill testing and certification program. The above activities would be
implemented on a phased basis according to a workplan to be developed with the
assistance of a consultant (para. 2.25). This workplan would be reviewed by
IDA within 12 months after the establishment of the NTTB, and NTTB would,
after taking into account the Association's comments thereon, carry out such a
plan in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to the Association
(para. 5.01(c)).
2.25    The proposed project would assist the Government in establishing the
NTTB by providing 18 months of consultancy services during the first two years
of the project. The MOE would provide two qualified, full-time counterparts
for the consultant. The consultant would assist MOE staff in preparing the
detailed terms of reference for the NTTB and the advisory/steering committee,
NTTB organization plan and operational procedures, position descriptions for
NTTB staff and work priorities and a short and long-term work program. He
would also provide training and assistance to the new NTTB staff during the
start-up period of the new Board. The MOE intends to establish linkages with
national training boards abroad with a view to staff exchange or other forms
of technical assistance to accelerate the development of the NTTB.
Technical Assistance (TA)
2.26    The proposed project would include TA in support of: (a) consultancy
services (163 months) and fellowships (259 months) for the establishment of
the polytechnic; (b) consultancy services (3 months) for instructional
materials development at the Sanaa TSS; (c) consultancy services (6 months)
and fellowships (51 months) for the establishment of the new TSS at Hodeidah;
(d) consultancy services (18 months) for the establishment of the NTTB; and



- 17 -
consultancy services (26 months) for preinvestment designs for possible
follow-up projects (Annex 2, Schedule 1). The total TA component to be
financed under the proposed project would therefore include 292 months of
consultancy services and 310 mouths of fellowships. All training materials
developed under the TA component would be made available to other training
institutions.
2.27      During negotiations, the Govermnent provided assurances that the
draft terms of reference of project consultants and the fellowship training
plan would be provided for IDA review by January 1, 1986 and that arrangements
would be made for the timely implementation of the TA program (para. 5.01(a)).
Bilateral Support
2.28     The technical assistance agency, Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische
Zusan xearbeit (GTZ) of the FRG, through a previously established protocol
agreement with the Government of the YAR, has provided, and continues to
provide. TA for vocational training. For the proposed Ta1z VTC, the FRG is
expected to provide additional TA, including equipment and an estimated 76
months of consultancy services, during 1988-91 (approximately US$2.7 million
equivalent).  In addition, the FRO Government would finance, in respect of the
Polytechnic, all the specialists services, and 31S of the fellowship program,
and 291 of the equipment and furniture (estimated at US$4.48 million
equivalent). The Government provided assurances during negotiations, that, in
the unlikely event that the FRG contribution does not materialize, and that no
other external financing is made available, the Government of the YAR would
provide the necessary foreign exchange and would finance all local costs
(para. 5.01(d)).



- 18 -
III. PROJECT COST. FINUNC1NG, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
Cost of the Project
3.01     Su mmary of Project Costs.  The total cost of the project is
estimated at YRls 181.9 million or US$28.1 million equivalent (Annex 1, Table
-II). The estimated total cost and foreign exchange components by main project
items are summarized below:
Table 3.1: Project Cost Su-ry
X        X of
- YR1's million-       -    US $ million-      Foreign   baseline
Local Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange    Cost
A. POLYTECHNIC. SANAA      17.2    31.7    48.9    2.7      4.9     7.5      65       37
B. TECHNICAL SECONDARY
SCHOOL' HODEIDA         9.8    13.7    23.5    1.5       2.1     3.6      58       18
C. TECHNICAL SECONDARY
SCHOOL, SANAA           1.5      4.4     5.8    0.2     0.7      0.9      75        4
D. VOCATIONAL TRAINING
COENER, TAIZ            11.1    16.9    28.0    1.7      2.6     4.3      60       21
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE    5.5    22.0    27.5    0.8       3.4     4.2      80       21
Total BASELINE COSTS      45.0    88.7   133.7    6.9    13.7    20.6        66      100
Physical
Contingencies        4.2      7.8    12.0    0.7      1.2     1.9      65        9
Price Contingencies    12.2    24.0    36.2    1.9       3.7     5.6      66       27
Total PROJECT COSTS       61.5   120.4   181.9    9.5    18.6    28.1        66      136
3.02     A breakdown of estimated project cost into local and foreign cost
elements by categories of expenditures is summarized as follows:



- 19 -
Talle 3.2: Project Cost by Category of Expenditure
(U million)      (U3$1 lllion)          Z Total
-                       -         I Fomi.  las&
LDN Foms ToItl Local hran. Ttl Exdhm   Casts
I. 1WESlIE  COS7h
A. CI.R
1. ACANENC FACLITES         27.2  22.3 49.5  4.2   3.4  7.6         45     37
2. ST"U D iDaDE              7.6   6.2 IB.  1.2   1.0  2.1          45     10
3. STAFF HSMN'               0.5   0.4  0.9  0.1   0.1  0.1         45      1
- -- -  -  -  -
Sob-TOWl CI HAR                35.3  29.? 64.2  5.4   4.5  9.9        45      49
l. EEUPET                       3.4  30.3 33.6  0.5   4.7  5.2        90      25
C. FINTURE                      0.8   7.5  1.3  0.1   1.2  1.3        90       6
D. 1EOUIEtJ ASSISTEdcE
1. COIISILTNFTS
REIOAL CIILTMTS            0.1   0.2  0.3  0.0   0.0  0.0        9i0      0
-  EnTRUATE CONSiLTAS         4.0  16.2 20.2  0.6   2.5  3.1        9v      15
3ao-Total4 cOSULfiTS         4.1  16.4 3.5  0.6   2.5  3.2         Ir      1s
2. FELLMSIS                  1.4         7.0  0.2   0.9  1.1        9o
Sib-Total TEMIAL ASTSITAE       5.5  22.0 27.5  0.1   3.4  4.2        30      21
-  -= --    -  a  a-                         -
Total BMELIE COS                  45.0  98.7 13W 7 6.9  13.7 20.6        66    105
Pkesicaz Guutialmncieu          4.2   7.0 12.0  0.7   1.2  1.3         65      9
rrace Cmnliruocies             12.2  24.0 36.2  lo    3.7  5.6        66     2
Total FMRET CSTS                  61.5  120.4 111.9   965  18.6 2.1      66    136
3.03      Basis of Cost Estimates. Estimated civil works costs for the project
are based on unit prices derived from current contracts and cost analysis of
similar institutions under the Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth and Sixth
Education Projects and on information on construction costs in general.
Furnitare and equipment costs are based on current c.i.f. prices and are
adjusted upward to include local transportation and installation costs. The
estimate of TA costs is based uron average costs per staff-month recently
experienced in YAR. Baseline costs reflect estimated prices at the time of
negotiations (October 1985). Project cost estimates do not include any
unidentifiable import duties or taxes, as goods imported for use by government
agencies are not subject to these taxes.



- 20 -
3.04     Unit Capital Costs and Areas.  Area allocations and costs per student
are shown in Annex 1, Table 3. Gross area per student place for academic and
boarding facilities are close to the median for these items at othe-
IDA-financed institutions.  Total capital costs (civil works, furni.ure and
equipment) per student place for academic and boarding facilities are
comparable to the high average cost of similiar Bank-financed institutions.
3.05     Contingency Allowance.  The project cost includes a contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical additions equal to lOZ of the estimated
costs of civil works, furniture and equipment, and 52 of the estimated cost of
TA. The project cost also includes price escalation contingencies calculated
for the period beginning at negotiations and in accordance with an agreed
schedule of implementation (Annex 2, Schedule II). Estimated annual rates of
price increases for various categories of expenditure are indicated as follows:
Table 3.3: PROJECTED ANNUAL PRICE ESCALATION
1985          1986          1987-90         1991-92
Local Costs           10.0%          l0.OZ           8.0Z                5.0S
Foreign Costs          5.0           7.5S            8.0Z               5.0S
Prices are expected to increase during the project implementation period by a
total of 21.1Z for civil works, 22.5S for furniture and equipment, 41.2Z for
TA specialists and 25.0% for fellowships.  Accor;ingly, aggregat"d price
increases are estimated at about 24.9Z of baseline -ost plus physical
contingencies. Total contingencies are estimated to be about 36.0S of the
baseline cost.
3.06     Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange component
is US$18.6 million equivalent or about 662 of the total project cost. The
calculations of the foreign exchange component are based on the expectation
that: (a) all of the civil works contracts will be awarded to local firms
(para. 3.15); and (b) all furniture and equipment will be directly imported.
The foreign exchange content of each category of expenditure is estimated as
follows: (i) civil works, 45Z; (ii) furniture and equipment, 90Z; and (iii)
experts and fellowships, 80Z.
3.07     Project Financing.  The proposed Credit of US$12.7 million equivalent
would finance 68Z of the total estimated foreign exchange cost of the
project. The Government of FRG (GTZ) is expected to contribute, through a
bilateral agreement with the MOE, an amount of US$7.2 million for equipment
and TA for the Taiz VTC and the Polytechnic. The amount includes the balance
of foreign exchange (US$5.9 million) plus 14Z of project local costs (US$1.3
million). The Government would finance 86Z of the total local costs, which
amounts to US$8.2 million (29Z of the total project cost). The proposed
financial plan is sunmnarized below:



- 21 -
Financing Plan by Summary Accounts
(US$ Million)
International   Federal      Govt. of
Deveiopment   Republic of   Yemen Arab                         Local
Association    Germany        Republic      Total    Foreign  (Excl.
Amount   Z    Amount  Z      Amount  Z    Amount  Z   Exch.   Taxes)
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works
1. Academic
Facilities       4.6  45.0      -     -      5.6  55.0   10.2   36.2  4.5       5.7
2. Student
Boarding         1.3 45.0       -     -      1.6  55.0    2.8   10.1  1.3       1.6
3. Staff
Housing          0.1  45.0    _       _      0.1  55.0    0.2    0.7  0.1       0.1
Sub-Total Civil Works    5.9  45.0      -      -      7.2  55.0   13.2   47.0  5.8       7.3
B. Equipment              4.1  57.9     2.5  35.7    0.4   6.4    7.0   25.0  6.3       0.7
C. Furniture              1.3  76.5     0.3  l.0    0.1   8.4    1.7    6.2  1.6       0.2
D. Technical Assist.
1. Consultants
Regional
Consultants        0.0  80.0      -     -        0.0 20.0    0.0    0.2   0.0      0.0
Expatriate
Consultants        0.5  10.3      4.0  87.2     0.1  2.6    4.6   16.5   3.7       0.9
Sub-Total Consultants    0.5  11.0      4.0  86.3      0.1  2.7    4.7   16.7   3.7       1.0
2. Fellowships            0.9  59.1     0.4  25.9      0.2 15.0    1.4    5.2   1.2       0.3
Sub-Total TA              1.4  22.3     4.4  72.0      0.3  5.6    6.1   21.8   4.9       1.3
Total Investment Costs  12.7 45.2        7.2  25.6     8.2 29.2   28.1  100.0  18.6       9.5
Total Disbursement       12.7  45.2      7.2  25.6     8.2 29.2   28.1  100.0  18.6       9.5
3.08     Recurrent Costs.  When fully operational, the annual recurrent cost of
the project institutions would be about YRls 35.7 million which would represent
about 2.01 of the projected education recurrent expenditures of the MOE in 1990.
It should be noted that, in the YAR, the MOE budget reflects the major portion of
government expenditures for technical training. In many other countries, these
costs appear in the budgets of ministries of labor, industry, etc. In light of
the priority need for technical training, the increase (less than 0.5X) in the
MOE"s share of the Government's recurrent budget is reasonable.



- 22 -
Project Implementation
3.09     Implementation Period.  The construction, furnishing and equipping of
all institutions and the TA component are scheduled to be completed by
June 30, 1992 (Annex 2, Schedules II and III). In order to allow sufficient
time for submission of the final vithdrawal applications, the closing date
would be December 31, 1992.
3.10     The Minister of Education has designated the Director of Technical
Education and Vocational Training as project coordinator, who would have the
overall responsibility for implementing the project under the general
supervision of the Deputy Minister. The specific responsibilities of the
project coordinator would be: (a) to ensure appropriate provision of local
capital and recurrent budgets for the project; (b) with the MOE school
building unit (SBU) staff, to manage the day-to-day operations of project
implementation, including preparation of construction documents, supervision
of construction and procurement of equipment; (c) with the advice and
assistance of the SBU accountant, to oversee the disbursement of the project
special account, prepare withdrawal applications of IDA funds and maintain
financial project records; (d) to insure timely recruitment of local teaching
staff and expatriate specialists for the project institutions and nomination
of candidates for the project fellowship program; and (e) to coordinate GTZ
equipment procurement, specialists and fellowships for the Taiz VTC and the
Polytechnic.
3.11     Architectural Designs. The SBU would have responsibility for the
architectural services required for the project institutions, including
preparation of construction documents, international competitive bidding (ICB)
and site supervision. The designs incorporate use of building materials with
which the local contractors are familiar. Preliminary designs have been
reviewed by IDA and are satisfactory and work on construction drawings is in
progress. ICB for the Taiz VTC and the Hodeidah TSS is scheduled to commence
by March 31, 1986 and for the Polytechnic by May 31, 1986. In the light of
experience with previous IDA-assisted projects which are proceeding
satisfactorily, no implementation problems are anticipated in this project.
3 12     Sites.  Suitable sites for each project institution have been
selected. All sites are satisfactory and will have sources of water and
electricity. All sites have been acquired except for the site for the TSS
Hodeidah which is expected to be acquired by January 1, 1986.
3.13     Furniture and Equipment Lists.  Preliminary furniture and equipment
lists for the Polytechnic and VTC were submitted for IDA review and are
satisfactory. Preliminary furniture and equipment lists for the TSSs are
under preparation and will be submitted for IDA review by February 1, 1986
(para. 5.01 (g)). The preparation of the detailed equipment lists,
specifications and bid documents for ICB would be undertaken by the MOE
Directorate of Technical Education and Vocational Training in collaboration
with the SBU and are scheduled for completion by February 1, 1986 (June 1,
1986 for the Polytechnic). The contracts for major equipment bid packages
will include installation and commissioning of equipment. Contracts will also
include equipment maintenance seminars by manufacturer or supplier
representatives



- 23 -
Procurement
3.14     Procurement arrangements are sumuarized in the following table:
Table 3.5: Procurement
Project Element                        Procurement Method           Totals
(us$ million)
ICB        LCB       Other         N.A.
Construction          12.8           0.4                            13.2
(5.7) a/     (0.2)                           (5.9)
Equipment & Furn.      5.3                     0.7          2.8 b/   8.8
(4.8)                  (0.6)                 (5.4)
Technical Assistance   -                       1.7         4.4 b/   6.1
_            -        (1.4)                 (1.4)
Total             18.1           0.4       2.4         7.2      28.1
(10.5)        (0.2)     (2.0)         -      (12.7)
aI  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the
IDA Credit.
bl To be provided by the Government of FRG.
3.15     Civil works contracts (amounting to US$12.8 million including
contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of ICB and about US$0.4 million
would be awarded on the basis of LCB. It is anticipated that due to the
competitiveness of the local construction industry all civil works contracts
(average size, US$4.4 million) would be awarded to local firms. Detailed
lists and specifications of furniture and equipment would be presented to IDA
for review and approval prior to procurement. Equipment and furniture items
(amounting to US$8.8 million, including contingencies) would be grouped, to
the extent possible, in large packages to permit bulk procurement, except for
US$2.8 million to be financed by FRG and procured under FRG procedures.
Contracts for furniture and equipment in excess of US$50,000, a total of
US$5.2 million, would be awarded on the basis of ICB. 'Small items or groups
of items estimated to cost less than the above figure or items of a
specialized nature for which ICB is not practical, would be procured by
obtaining and comparing at least three price quotations, in accordance with
local procedures acceptable to IDA (para. 3.16). These items would not
exceed an aggregate total of US$0.7 million, which would represent about 9% of
the estimated furniture and equipment costs including contingency allowances.
Draft tender and contract documents for furniture, equipment and civil works
would be forwarded to IDA for review and approval; IDA's approval of tender
evaluation documents would be required prior to the award of all contracts for
furniture, equipment and civil works estimated to cost over US$100,000 each.
Other contracts will be subject to selective post-award review. For the
purpose of comparing foreign and local bids under ICB, local manufacturers of
furniture and equipment would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the
existing rate of customs duties applicable to competing imports or 15% c.i.f.
price,



- 24 -
whichever is lower. Equipment for the Taiz VTC and the Polytechnic to be
provided under parallel financing arrangements with FRG, amounting to about
US$2.8 million equivalent, will be procured under GTZ procedures. Specialists
for TA will be selected in accordance with IDA guidelines except for those
provided by GTZ for the Taiz VTC and the Polytechnic who will be directly
recruited under FRG procedures.
3.16     Laws and regulations regarding local procurement procedures and
practices in YAR were reviewed by IDA in July 1985, in order to reach a
judgment as to whether local procedures are acceptable for IDA-financed
contracts. The findings of that review were discussed with the YAR
authorities during negotiations and it was agreed that civil works for the
construction of the two workshops at the Sanaa TSS may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of the Borrower's competitive bidding
procedures, provided, however, that: (a) 211 bidders shall be treated equally
in terms of the requirement of furnishing bid or performance security; and
(b) bids arriving after the stipulated deadline for the submission of bids
shall not be considered (para. 5.01(h)).
Disbursements
3.17     Disbursements (Annex 2, Schedule IV) would be on the basis of:
(a) Civil works: 45X of total expenditures.
(b) Furniture and Equipment: l00S of foreign expenditures, and of local
expenditures ex-factory; 85Z of local expenditures for imported items
procured locally.
(c) Technical Assistance: 100X of foreign expenditures.
Withdrawal applications for contracts above US$10,000 equivalent financed by
the Credit would be fully documented. Documentation for contracts below
US$10,000 may not be submitted, but will be maintained by the SBU and are
subject to review during project supervision missions. In order to facilitate
timely withdrawal of the p-oceeds of the Credit, the Borrower will open,
maintain and operate a Special Account with the Central Bank of Yemen on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.01(e)). The initial deposit would
be about US$0.5 million equivalent, based on anticipated disbursement
requirements of the project.
3.18     Disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31, 1992,
about seven years after Credit Signature. The estimated disbursement profile
is shorter (by one year) than the IDA country-wide disbursement profile for
the YAR. This is reasonable because: (a) the actual disbursement profile for
the completed Second Education Project is both at a higher rate and of shorter
duration (six years) than the country profile; (b) the SBU's performance in
implementation has improved with each succeeding IDA-assisted education
project; and (c) the advanced stage of preparation of the proposed project
(completion of construction drawings and bid documents for civil works for all
project items except the Polytechnic is scheduled for February 1986, about one
month after Credit Signature).



- 25 -
3.19     Accounts and Audits.  In consultation with the Project Coordinator,
the SBU accountant will coordinate the financial affairs of the proposed
project. Pre-auditing is carried out by an accounts unit of the Ministry of
Finance located in the MOE. Under existing Credit Agreements (Credits
915-YAR, 1203-YAR, and 1340-YAR and 1470-YAR), the Borrower has arranged to
have project accounts for each year audited by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA.
3.20     Project accounts including the Special Account (para. 3.16) would be
audited by auditors acceptable to IDA and in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles. IDA would be provided within six months of the ead of
each YAR fiscal year (December 31) with: (a) certified copies of the project
accounts; and (b) an audit report of such scope and detail as IDA may
reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the auditor on
disbursements against certified statements of expenses (para. 5.01(f)).



- 26 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
4.01     The main benefits expected to result from implementation of the
proposed project are as follows:
(a) Manpower Supply. The proposed project would assist in alleviating
acute shortages of trained technicians and skilled workers which
constrain industrial development by adding some 450 trained workers
to the annual supply. In addition, 34 vocational/technical
instructors would graduate annually, reducing the need for costly
overseas instructor training and expensive expatriate instructors.
The proposed project would establish a major new institution
(polytechnic) in the YAR for the training of technicians. In
addition, the Government would be provided with the capability
(currently non-existent) of training vocational/technical instructors
through the establishment of an instructor training department at the
proposed Polytechnic.
(b) Institution Building. Through the establishment of the NTTB, the
Government's ability to systematize, coordinate and monitor the
entire vocational/technical education and training system would be
substantially improved. In addition, the NTTB would ensure that
training needs assessment, related curricula reforms, tracer studies,
cost-effectiveness studies and studies for levy systems are conducted
as required. This would increase the effectiveness of current and
future investment in, and development of, the entire vocational
education and training system.
(c) Equity. The proposed project would improve access to education and
training (through the establishment of the Polytechnic and the TSS)
and hence employment for lower-income groups who traditionally enroll
in vocational training and technical education programs. It is
expected that some 101 of the enrollment in the polytechnic will be
females.
(d) Curriculum Materials. The new and updated curriculum materials to be
developed under the proposed project would be made available for use
in all technical training centers. This would lead to a general
improvement in the quality of training.
Risks
4.02     There are no significant risks related to project components with the
possible exception of the NTTB's ability to translate policy decisions into
action programs. However, the NTTB, unlike the previous coordinating entity,
will have a permanent, full-time staff, thereby minimizing the risk.
Implementation of the NTTB component will be closely monitored. Furthermore,
all project components have firm government support and thus strong potential
for success. The project implementation unit in the MOE has acquired
considerable experience through previous IDA-supported projects and has
established a solid record of effective project implementation performance.



- 27 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) the draft terms of reference of project consultants and the
fellowship training plan would be submitted for IDA review by January
1, 1986, and arrangements would be made for the timely implementation
of the TA program (para. 2.27);
(b) the NTTB would be established by July 1, 1986 (para. 2.24);
(c) IDA will be furnished within twelve months of the establishment of
the NTTB with an NTTB work plan of such scope and detail as IDA may
reasonably request (para. 2.24);
(d) in the unlikely event that the FRG contribution does not materialize,
and that no external other financing is made available, the
Government of the YAR would provide the necessary foreign exchange
(para. 2.28);
(e) a special account would be opened and maintained on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA and the special account will be
operated according to IDA guidelines (para. 3.17);
(f) accounts would be audited by auditors acceptable to IDA and in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles; and rDA would be
furnished within six months of the end of each fiscal year, with:
Ca) certified copies of the project accounts; and (b) an audit report
of such scope and detail as IDA may reasonably request (para. 3.20);
Cg) preliminary furniture and equipment lists for the TSSs will be
submitted for IDA review by February 1, 1986 (para. 3.13); and
Ch) civil works for the construction of the two workshops at the Sanaa
TSS would be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of the
Borrower's competitive bidding procedures; provided, however, that
(i) all bidders shall be treated equally in terms of the requirements
of furnishing bid or performance security, and (ii) bids arriving
after the stipulated deadline for the submission of bids shall not be
considered (para. 3.16).
5.02     Subject to the above conditions, the project would provide a suitable
basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 12.0 million (equivalent to about US$12.7
million) to the Government of the YAR.



IT
'it



-29 -
YEEN ARM RVRUC                                       Ar'ex I
ADMINISrRATIVE STRUCTURE OF THE MINISrRY OF EDUCATION              QwrL I
Nn_ d
[-- I 1    1.1
LIE
~~- I
I         rIO~u.m  Ir ~TnhI d CI lOe    I -I .<   dT___I
Ek 3  ii  _I    L q                                         TL        r 
G.V/d _  m  7
Dbof  afr.cumof~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
G4co i*.c.Fll
T.dW* & VOL                                  -      Q
ok.cwnmof ~    O~U.mo
-|a I -| I-|  T%
edOl_dti
* _ ~~~bma. Io    |Or  
hdr.& Uw.u.      L     .  S E
1_.w                  F-mmor f
I   O.auims_    IDe
. r _ q _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ISi



- J0 -
Page 2
WNa3ciYE SA sb U DICUnm 
October 9. 1983
car PMas  rerNN                    ma"DElWIS LrcRAr  rurO    rKg               PrDIA       rDav    rtM PM           SWODnR  5c    n Nu10
SrS ToP. CAPrAr  r2lrt 06 mu  CMirIFL A4OCrD   Tot Rot2             211D SCRIOD          T== sl m o Nlrw   Pru  s"D  OMDtt             srimlrs IollB.
TM  alS. ( )  DOW2 TO                        fn_ SW st : CZ()            D ra CT    r     U       AS PEC        DMR          0        u        R
(1979)f (1919    rAJI    zzprB>                n CZ)      (176)   ()         CZ)      rzmza     rca lr"rr     tn)         CZ) r r             ::)
_ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~    ~     ~     u n _uc _fl tm? I2  I   *     }       s}t}                          (0           1}         f:         1*|*
(1      (2)       (3)           (4)          (31           4       (73      (3)a   ()            (30)         fill       (1         U(32      t
Qua&              ai L.0&o1b t*  S3b    3.1           .1       is  SD a    -     77b       71       b2       Z         3.0 o5                  31        I-       5.3.2
IiI5SIA          l    s 110S    ISo.  2.1           9.3        le  24    b 3      b       96         11       37       11.0                    2a7   S             I.;-
NO24              2    19.b 1flflb    7.7'          20.3        3* 35;1i          9J       99       9          43       19.0         98          84       so       21.5
SLU M         54    1 2ab   I570h      .13        Ilb.7      3   43   iW       Mb 97      X 97   9r        2a   11 .r             39    n      2       22   * .O0
PAM" N.C.          3     3.0      a20     5.4         19.0       40   17   22     -          0       73         31       15.0         35          ;3=      27S       I.O0
33r3t1InPMS       79    48.3b    49*    2.          14.0        64   36   -       7*%      34       45         31        7.1                    -i s      ?*      713*
S     D304P0      so     2.4   4.4M0      2.1           .7       39   40   16      3        92        n2        31        IA 9t                   53       2?       SUA
oMnISt.           32     Ca2b     W   443=          19.0*b      4s   34   2D      13      71        so         2?       30.5         %a    D      i       so        7*2;
TRAXwMn            U2   49.0* o    00b    3.4         20.3        9   14  Lt        gb     101        Go        21        9.3-        446                   33       &ju1'
swIm ASIA
M,5aCfl9          79   92.3b      90      l._IP      30.1        33   17 20        22b      637      -     D              5._                     34       23        1.413
tIAM             sDo   .2   SG  3.6                  1.t0    ------   30   32    -                              -               -                 -        -    -
m1Xu              77  63.         Zi3     2.97         9.9       -          - _   36        79X      -          41       -            --          2x       -         S. le
NEPAL             32    15tLb    Iab    l.A         -           _-                 19       70       -          38                    -           21       23        3.703
Imrsi             32    *7jib    33o      2.0          7.0       U    20  24       22       M        41         380       5.                      21       15        *.00
BEMP. m      E PASr AND  1M  iraIca
s. 5aIsra         17   1353       -       1.7          1.7       41   19   '3   32          3197     69         37b      -            62           a       22%     I."0
6(031 R"                  3.]3  1,70      I.'         32.3        127 12   2i.    33        33       439        37        7.0?        sr          27       2..      t: 
strr             e3    13.13Z    63       S.4          7.9   U    1' 33: 2e! s              7         me        34        95          334         434      198      *1.ee
CRICXE            76     9.3   4,140      2.3-        mO.0b      37   aS   21      -        979T     -          20b       4.2?        -           79W      27t9   17 ;*?
lUI               79   36.9      -        5      .717 14.1-4     -     -     -     M       101       -          323      -            -          440       43=      4-3057
130               79   12.4   2.730       4.3-         .9        -    -    -      -        lOOP      -          aB       -            -          439       29-      9.309F
[EVAL4D           el*    jjb *,           6.W        11..        --       * _     9 se     93        94        29        -            93         31        14      zlJd3
JMES              RI      .2b   Ii_ob    4.-9        10.2        t7        i 13   7ob     lo0        85        32         t.2         Sl         A'l       '5      19.00
LEBANO            74     2.3      -       -           13.464?    --      -     -   --       94       -           *       -            ---         4*e      -       77.37
MSD               SO    19.5    740 e       .W        17.U5      36        20      2s       *04      35         39       19.7         40         2-9       21       4.se
OHO               32      09b 3.920b    2.34'         12.7-         -      -       30?      71X      b35        25       -            36          11        14      ._
YuOe^CAL          79     9-5b 2O.00       34         22.2    S     O  a    I1      78       97       20    1Y     -      33    a                   ?s  S   17j   5Lit35
UAKW2A            73    22.1   2ID00      3.9br       6.27       -    -    -      9n      lOtb       -          Db       -            in          8&bx     22*b     IG0.
SPrIX             74  37.0 4* 20   2.1               3.6r    -  -              -            - 9wb     -         2b    -               -            7*.    _-
SrirU             7o     3.0   1_17C      4.49        20.3       39   25   26      50       vb       30 3Sb              -            fij                  al2t     ;:.s.
Tt33SlA            79    f44   13130      7.09        11.0       42   39   IS      42b  8,43         s0         39b      12.          30          343      30        4.00
TUWKy             33      47.3  31230     3.3         14.2        30  22   24      73b     110        77        31        6.0          55         24        11       3.00
r30 43.           s0     6.J      420    5LOW         32.0       94    7    7      20b      37       132        387      67.0         a5           3       20        1.10
TER   P.R.        32     2.0      420b    7.6          9.7       635  145  38    M          61       34         25       22.          41 7                 20        2. 5
339140W FOB 322231P13 CDWUlyBtE
S.botr..n tnn4                                          92      M11  U9  67    33          92      6e          95       45            73         VI       al      35
n.:                                     (IA           (3.7-  (23- (3-  (S-    (S-        (12-     (12-        (17-    (1.4-         (10-        (1-      (R-    (0.W3-
10.0)         56.3)  94)   46)  33)    99)      119)      M9)        77)      .7.0)        I1!I0       64)       413)    Zq.n'
l5nrtlCa. Lv...                          L.A           11.7    531        22    Si         90       80         *31      7a           ai          _        ;.       I 1n
iMdi:                        4.0           l. 1      :3   2    1     53 D      3        61        3S        13           65         24        22       3.?
uawn                          .0           11.0    3U    2    13      25       40        33        28        9            40         14       13        1.0
OwartIe Deelatl:                         1.3            5.4    6.3  7.5 4.5  73.0        14.0     22.1        1.0      5.4         73.5       134        3.5
-wean:                                   4.4           17.0     4      le   is  /S         16        9         36       16           *2    11             iI   b .S
St radr.itfoo:                           1.9            8.7     12  10            29       27       24         11       13           27          23        7        7.4
Nedise:                               4.0          36.0      &3   28   1i     33       33        41        35        13           63         24        22       1.?
SYwI DLS:                                                            roolrwrrz
-    OlbrW3 Ul AWfl.3C                                                 A - BOA M PM3 TO  =SE TER                  S - HDITSMU  OF e3cCm0  (ROE) CCLV
..owuDC  3I. OR wEIC  rnt                                        3 - DAMI MEI fll1 T           *2 YE TM    T - JR SO ETCR  coD9ru1           CMn
a ce" O0"WITOASLR                                                      I - CUIaW   PRIME                            - F',PLIC 3uDI?r' W QK.--
*    InODES PAMFr-FE 3UO`ITs                                           P - Cl                                     r- ISXSL 01 9;t %wIWr?
SUia:           c..Come, I asud 2: Unrld w.k Atlas or r.catls wector field wiseddos.
CDl _  3 to D : Acrid t_k Edwoti  mator  sedewims. COewmUmt waere  mn-r tbh  D-wse StwigLlcwL Tnrb.d.
Cwn1ar4tIe Era1IttoL    Dat. are muFol It eh.  ewSlaotsa ot  artme  cd-ceLis erte. sd maLyae  f r letie  sa ge. or aduatiewl d.lneio              t bet-   a co..
co.n-rtew. Sse.er  ow cth  bed. of cte  e-tnt det. erewaatIomal esoarim  ahoold be approwehd with great catlo.  Oata preatw  ia th e amo table ha-_
bean collectd lrpely by Dsnk   si . d     row ree_ orrmt WWrrCB  the reminder *re saff es*tiwtw - or dota fr  theo  Effort hWe  be               o m Wde LB dr
dernitttoas  d. dItlIa 11d  tr. Lh ebh   the thoaetry .f thbe data. EOVertehl'a. eacsc daLt. are attIL iw.rfect 13  -e.l tert. a a--!,A :_          t Ps. _rLlee to
ipr     teaor              -  te ac-ilo_ of it. oper-tlooa.i cw           T.  tth  4r of theme darw- cio follmsti     q- wlcatlcww    otllow L.0_ 1.. zI..f-
(1)   iWuattw  ..as delf td i  tne table telde w11 ed te     *t ad tratotog. beth f3ram  and  r-foral.
(Z)   'PrIary   eraclon refre to edecstt I      C the firtr  lel Md ~_Wodwr9 .dw*tIse  refers to a11 OiedoLoM  wt the scader.y :1    reerdle.   f 
(e.g. sem"ral. rschis,l. sgrtcottra11).
(31    LtLrwcj rateW  (col. 4) are  Ftc  sota_od trram eostry e.fa__c  1. _or cesttrtew they  re alp approrectw ad tt to dohbtfd  th-a  .., co *1
deftles of  h11rat. h   bhea tf.e        ed e    tao  7ly.
(4)   'Wbile epsdtory to .demctm.  (eole. 4 and D) refere to  11 esplt-i ad  recurreot awpwodlture  deted to edcati  by pblic ad qsas-iuatI
(C)   t.aoIlwc rattioS  (col. 7. 12 and It) rctfr co echool pear sd ar, th. pemccate of eligible claler. n reried 1.11-i I.  to Che appropriate  ection.
pbLic and prieste by                *rea. Twy  re art.. abject to a wide mrgn of error i  the devlelptAg cotrien orio  to  arisla s lo the  accurcy of b-di
d-at  (i.e.  g-apeclfl' popaLstli   ad *-rotls`Cs).  aDrollusL ttfS-rea frtustly wre higher than tha smber of Wtdatw weLs1li  Ia school.
o_r_rkcd  ctadsot. my be nelsdsd In thes  figere  a nd cm  1n late the ratio..



ewNAmczvm lmacs in zurncsou
Octoe.r 9. 1935
CuIrAL
mumorow
czranium       amnciriw                          wwtuzo.i              rnmitr
onOCS30hl  3ECYfjr          ADULT              358a FOR              UhTr 05g   ?CIZ[on
CPml                 AS *  NSfM      nPIUDZIRMS  3ITZRACf 1P123aM 13131*8         PEIJIAM   13131       KtS! FOR   SEWAt UNDAR!50IOf 31 tin
MMn   MP.  CterrA  rZmur GNP OrAL CErEAL mALCAn TOtZ 358                  nUn.. 30200L         srugas noMCsm     ranier To  =NULL.  groumerf  1  LL.
Ira  LLS. (am8)   n19F33 TO  GOIrESt    Pat  Svc  ml    CZ)   ltRIO    CTCIJ!               PER       AS nun130  SCimNPAn   RAM           PER        - 
(3979) (1979)   EoOCfIOW   cram nar              CZ)        01976)   CZ)         CZ)     rAnuR cmrIcaprnA          (2)        Ct)1    r1A033        Ct)
(I I    (2)       (3)           (4)           (5)          (63       (7)       (8)        (9)        (30)         (133       (13        (13)    (41
nEvuzon  -Q0f Kin
AUSrA1.A      s      14.6b  8mo        6.3a        14.         -                          103't    100         21        -             99          73        13       20.40
CAnnA              61    23.7b  9.65*b    7.7*          13.597     3-0*? 34*723*    ,9b        IO362    1oo         21        39.97        100          921       in       22.e09
033(1ST P.3..      79    61.2  12.200       6.6          9.9*       ---       -       94        a"*      loom       -         -            ROD*         94*       -        12.30*
PUfhU.SDS          79    14.'?  10.490      7.9          5.3        20   33   25      99b7      96       95         13        13L3          99          32        33       32.60
KNa ZEALAND        Be      3.2k  6.0S1k    L s          13.4        37   31   23      99k      1063      1630       26        33.0         20           32        3 5      25.803*
sairM              79      3.3  il.230      9.0         38.2       31   10   10       994       9W      100         t3*       39.9         1630         7Wg       163*     36.511"7
tarts emmA
DWIsMA             83      1.0k    900k    7.63         17.0       42  29    18       40       300       77         32        20.0          40          20        21        1.80
3JN0               S1     4.2      235      2.3b.       19.0       43  2327           2 5       2WZ      35         37        20.2          12           3'       I.,       1.00
mePOWS             8       0.4b    345      3.62        23.0       49   29   22       49        76       40         39        -             45          36        2s       0.60
DIIaWIr            34      0.4     610      3.0         11L.9       73   2    ...    10         42       66         40        6 7.0         40          1 0       39       0.60
EIO0PTA           81    32.ab    140b    2.91          II.[       45   2 5   20      33        42       30*        63        19.3          93*         14        44       0.45
mUWA               32    174       420k    5.3ti4      20. k       6 516    1 1       48b      113        so        36        24.6          35          138       26       -
unKMa              az      I.ab    43*5    5.5          16.9       33 32  26          53k      116       41         48         9.6          46          21        21        1.30
MADAGASCAR         77      s.s     330      4.a-       24.0         s3   a    19      30        94)3     33         3*b        8.0          33          14        23       34163b7
NALANI             SI     6.ah    n3ob    3.5           11.4        38   14  25       2*b       62       23         65          5.81        12           4        21       0.A0
NUNfIUSm           33      1.ob  1.170bk   6.3          14.0       4G4  36    7       Bob       93       72         23        13.0         1oo          s0        22        3.00
RWANDA             83      5.9k    z7ok    3.6         27.4        71   16   13       374      65        30         60        26.0           9           5        16       0.40
S3OEMLLZS          79     0.6   1.770       5.9        2Z."        34* 33*j10* a                                    23        -             -           -        -        -
SOMALIA            a1     4.5      230      3.5         10.3        50b   0'  Gb    Mk          12b      so ~    29k           so0b         &Db         12b       22       10
smww          so~  19.2b    304    3.0             -           6.   39   ...    32         siaz     Go         34          1.4         44          16        16        .
SiuLAzzDu          83      0. 7b    94      3J8pk       20.4        1L   34   1 5     6*s       93        so        33        11.0          go          29        18       3.00
TnZfllA            to    18.5      260       3.9        17.7        47   10   16      79k       gab       37        43        11.0           j94         3        20*       31.30
UCAbDA            8Be    12.6b    3CRpk    -            16.1IV     23b 376 2O         4*        54X      61         34        -             1 7          5        23       0.60
28133              81    29.3k    2j0b    7.7          26.4        -   -1 0           s4k       76       235        30        21.0          AD          la        a5       z.oo
ZAMBIA             B0      5.74    566k    4.59         11.3       48   23   22       444       95       80         48        22.9          19          1 6       22       1.30p
ZIJ35JU            3I      7.74   7oOk    3.1           19.3       62  32    6        44k      90        55         39        20.0          83          1 5       23       0.30
flEw AFRICAk
B=iN               79     3.4b    320k    6. SW        33.0        43   21    5    Lib         42        30         46        14.0          30          I12       43       1.007
BMKMA  ~      83      6.5     2:0k    2.121        21.7       43   29   28       9         16       2 5        57        24.3          16           3        24       0.03
cantUoS            in     3.2      590      2.97        M6.0       35*  430  20*   -            767      4599       307       11.84         20a         247      26        1.307
C.i.R.             79      2.2     230      3-15"       20.687            - -       -       -                       635                              -                     0. 70ay7
01*0               76     4.4      320      Z.4bI7     21.Ib       -          - -    135        25       -          77        -                          VW35    21        0.20T
0130               76   1.5   670   9.fl*57   27. 787   -  -  -   -                            -         -          5b    -                 30          -        43k7   4.j0*7
CAEN               77  0.6  3.420   3.747    4.67    -  -  -   -                                -        -          46by   -                -           -         19'?  2.80*7
GAPMm              77     0.6      220      3-3*         A*        6* A    290  6*   10k        40k7     90*        27kv          in~7      40          ft34*7    1 7       -
CMIAA              76    11.3      400      6.-07       13.74      -    -    -       -          73437    -          27by                    -           36457    21        -
033Dm              79      5.3     290      4.6&0       -           259  28*  28*   20          34       36         33        20.0*0        83          3 6       29        7.00*
Mpor mASr          SI     82b  1.0y0b   30.0           45.0        33   44   1 3    30b         60       86         43        26.0          4 7         1957    26         2.90*7
UREmIA             ao      i.q      20      4.6         19.6       43  23  24        30         32       32         3 5       20.0          76          2 2       20       :.9o
MALI               31I     7.Qkb   190      '.2'       2i. 7       38   21  IlI    10           20       60         44        :.7           66           3        1 1      Owp0
nsaranIA           78      1.6b    32Gb    5.5          16.9       33   43   2 5    374         32       60         44        32.0          30           9       215       0.3'
EICn               N8      3.2     300      4-3*7       t6.6*7      52*  43*  35      a         1 7      56*        41*       33.7*         403          2        24      0o207
sErBIaA            83    93.6k    760k    7.47          16.0       -    -    12.8  36           93        70        36        it)5          44.7        22.5      30       21
mIMICAL            77      5.3     4350     5.0        23.0        46   34   20    10           34)37    -          43b7      -             20          10       21        2.20b7
SIE38ALSE          77      3.4     230      4.ob        160k       -         -    -1 I*         37'      -          35        2 5.0b        34          LI.       22       O.soby
TOGO               ye      z.4     400      6. X"       26.594      30*  28s  21*   :           74       40          54bv     18.0          ,p 2b57    4ak                  1kG4'y
ternl ainrca AND THE CamRrum
AfhlIIrIA          in    273   2.210        2.7         10.9       43*  31*  j3*   93k         89        s2         1 7       -             87          3 1       a       23.00
BARAMA             79     0.2   2.770       5.7         19.1       36  34    1 1    93k        99        97         24        -             97          735      19       -
MUsIS              78     0.2   2.680       8.59m7     22.1*       43*  31't I6'  994b         100'      99*        277       19.9*         99*         787      201      -
BVUVIA            ao      5.4     530      4.18T      30.59o      -     -     -     63         747      -          207       -                         I  15    --       12.607
3IAZfL.           79   116.5   1.770       3J           6.2        51    -   34    76          73&7      -         23*7       4.7b4si IEe              19        j4*Y    12A.2b
031!.              76    10.9   1.390       3.2b7       13.0b         -       -      -         119kxy    -          34by      -             -           35742(    20kv   Inao90b
SOLONSTA,          NO    26.7b  1.l3ok    1.3           23S.0       3 5   20   20    glb        78       36         32         6.6          -           4 7      20       10.02*
CWrAt aIA          9       2.2b  1g10Ob    3.4          33.1       40   27   33    90           93        77        33         5.5          77          40        27      '4.00
cum          ~73      9.3     -        3.0         11.0        -     -     -    96        Il2k37    93         l3by      -             ON          7jhy    13        19.o247
DNINuicIN Er?.    30       5.3   1.030      2.9         13.0       39   21   22    434          so       31         39         3.2          94          30        33      16.00
swMatO             so    8*4k  1.110        6.00       36.7        5   3!   16    II          105       -          36        12.6          56          47       16       29.00
ii. 56L?ADSE       '7     4.4      640      3.4b7       23.j3a7    64    3   27    62           32417    32         39        -             41          26k17    27kv      7.904'
OCfArKLA           73      6.3   1,010      1.7*7       12.6b      -    -    -       -          6*57y    -          35b7      -             69          1*57    I9kv        L.30
G33ZUI             76      o.u     no3      a.1by       11.8kvS     -    -    -      -          flI"y    -          32bv      -             -           29457    -         3.ookv
SAIrl              ao      5.O     230      3.49         7.9*7      63    9    6    23k         30       20         41        19.0          62*          6        27       '1.80
303d3tAS           73      3.6      320     3.5k        36 1.3kv    622  13*  19*   60          80*7y   300         41kv      l2.6m         64*         3Js7      : 9      a.00v
JTAMAICA4          30      2.1   1.110      6.5         13.7        37   43   20    90          98       98         40         2.3          93          81       22        3.00
inIwc              an    65.5   t.880       4.7         17.fl0&          39   1 5    92         98        3         44         9.5          86          56        1 7     10.30
flGAAuMa           78      2.6b   Glob      3.041       34.0k            -    -      906        359'     24         37b       .-      -                 202       lab     -
PAnAus             73      I.8b  31.0 SWb     g34i'Y    21.8b'     42*  13a  1 3    82b         9 *7     -          25b7      11.6         1359         5*7      27kby    20.4017
FARACUAT           79     3.0   1.140       1.4"        14.2       a!   1 7   20    84         83        32         23         3.jr         76          22        1 2      o.m0
FMS                so    16.6   1.000       3.6         14.3       33 I 1519    30            A63        56         39         9.3          89          39       22       14.407
TRUmXAIn A TOR.   77       1.1   3.910      4.3kv        3.3by      48   32   20    95 93                91         30        30.5?         49          62        24      -
110CAT          73      2.9   2.3D0      2.5          9.4b          -    -        94        10!bm      -         24b       -             -            "ba      -        Ij7.f057
WEIRUELA           73    16.4   3.440       3.17        13q9b       -    - --        32        io.bx     -          23        -             --          38bx      1 7     21.107G



- 32 -
Summon Icu- mat bw Pm.bet Co.wAnL                          Annex I
m NiZff)                                         Table 2
Nr I    T     m    iu            r        _       tv_;_io
Pmu.  SCIL. S m.  TEO
UN    MElD  UIM  CAD,U Azs ra  TotbI  S    I
1. DWMTEiU   mit
I. czuainm.
A* emL 1
1to IA   FgILT                        1943      13.2      20           5.0         -  47.5  1.A S O
L Sim   31                             7.1      3i                     - 33 -                10.0   1.4
LEW FIE                                0.9        -         -                      -   0.19  10.0   0l
Su-Ttal ClL                               7.3        5      2.0         1.4          -  M42  s0.    6.4
PbsiuCi tiumwciu                       2.7       .7       0.2         le          -    4    0.0   0.0
Prim c muiim.i                         63       LI        0.4          4.2         -  14.5  9.1   1.3
Sb-Total DCmm     WIDEBEI                343      2ao       2.6         2.4          -  5.4   g.1   7z
Fhti*aExda                            16.       9.1       1.2          0.1         -  37.9   9.    3.4
L E3S                                    14.3      L5       3.?          7.0         -  336  10.0   3.4
P htmcl CmtiiAmias                         1.7       0.5      h4           0.7         -   L4   0.0    OA
Price CmACih                           4.4       1.4 SA0               14          -    .   9.1    01
btal  ICmiu  mfmiu                      2L4        7.4       5             S         -  4*.5   9.    4.1
Famii Exda                            21.0      6.        4.7          Ls          -  43.1   9.1     7
C. F1U1M                                 44        1.4        -          2.          -  I3 tOA        0.a
P-.1ical Camtidlcies                   0.4      0.1         -          0.3         -   0.5   0.0   0.0
Price CaUMuiu                          1.1      0.4         -          06          -   2.1   9.1    0.2
Sib-Tol RIUI CS  SEM                     5.1       1.9        -          3.5         - S1.3    .1   1.0
Foiei Excb*e                           5.2       1.7        -          3.1         -  10.1  9.1   0.9
D. IEDIIICL flSISTM
1. CONWLTUIrS
W.  ESLITS                            -        -        -            -        0.3   0.3  L.O   0.0
EA1hUTE COfhUTMIS                     -        -         -            -      2.2  20.2   5.0   1.0
Total MILUs                             -         -        -            -       20.3  20.   *.0   1.0
2.~ 5'U u                                -        -         -           -        7.0         5.0   a.;
btea hl EI1C&L ;%WNU                       -        -                      -      27.5  27.5   5.3    ;:
h2;siea1 ;L ,iniseies                    -        -         -           -        1.4   1.4  .0      O
Price    sirois                          -        -        -            -       10.3  10.S  4.W   '.5
o-TaW  XWIDG C%iIcI                        -        -         -            -      37.7  ;9.7  ;.8    i
:arc1fem daCe                                     --                            .1   311.   4.3     a
-0at1 i91ESTT COSTS                        48.?     23.3       5.8        23.0        7.5 1;37   so :.
- 5iC3i CatirmScies                       4.9      2.3      0.6          2.8        1.4  ;2.   ;.    v2
: :ce tt:nes                             11.7      5.6      1.4          1.0 iO.a   .2  :.3    .a
-_->1 :56 :;;NT;lfE;2                   Z isi. 31.4           '.; .4              T . a? :91.?       A.;.4S
~ x;"n rdiide                           ;2.3      a.       5.7         _ *        i.J :3.4  3.1    3
::%x3;ai Zmr                                8.?ies   3.5       :.     3    3.3 .3 _3.7 _
:rlc- c      ns                          U.7  i-.o.3 -.4-
erealn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                        =    ffi3 :3.;3. _3  _.o :13v .



- 33 -
Annex 1
Table 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Estimated Unit Areas and Unit Capital Costs of Proiect Institutions
(1985 Prices)
Gross Construction     Estimated Cost per Student Placeal
Type of Facility      Area per Student
(m2)
This      Bank        Bldg.               Equip-
Project    wide b/    & Site  Furniture  ment    Total
M1edian
1. Academic and Couuunal                                               c/
a. Polytechnic       17.2      13.5          7,000      1,360  6,300   14,660
b. TSS               15.0      17.9          6,600        700  2,800   10,100
2. Boarding
a. Polytechnic        9.9        9.6         5,500        460    -       5,960
b.  TSS               7.0        8.9         2,800        200    -       3,000
a/ Excluding professional fees and contingencies.
b/ Nedian value of FY81-FY83 projects.
cI  The Polytechnic program consists only of engeneering e.echnologies.



-34 -
Annex 2
Schedule T
YEREN ARAB 2EPUBLIC
TEClCAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Technical Assistance I-alementation Schedule
Total 1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
A. Polytechnic
Consultants
Technical Advisor  (1x24)  24       -    -      -    -    6  12         6
Curriculum    (5x18+1X19) 109       -   -       -   30   40  30         9
Instructor Trg.    (lx3W)  30       -   -       -    -    12  12        6
Total             163                       30   58  5fi    21
Fellowships
Director            (1)    7        3   -       -      4   -   -
Instructors        (9x24) 216       -   24      96   96   -   -        _
Instructor Trainers (3xM2)  36     _   =        12   24   -   -
Total             259      3   24    108  124
B. ISS S.naa a
Consultants
Curriculum         (1x3)   3        3   _       _    _    _   _         _
c. ISS Kodeidah
Curriculum         (2x3)   6             6    -      -    -   -        -
Fellowships
Director           (13)   3         -   -       3
Instructors       (4x12)  48        -   -    24   24
Total             51                  27   24
D. VW  Taiz
Consultants
Technical Advisor  (Lx22) 22        -   -      -    5    8    9        -
Automotive         (I.x18) 18       _   _      -    4      7    7      -
Maintenance        (xc18) 18        -   -      -    4      7   7       -
Electrical         (lx18) 18        -   -      -    4      7   7       -
Total             76                        17   29  30
E. Natioal Training Board
Technical Advisor  (lxlg) 18        6   12     -    -    -   -
F. Preinvstuent Designs        26      -   6    20    -    -   -           -
2024V



YEMEN ARAB REPUILIC
TECHNXCAL TRAINING PbOJECT
InlMintatian Schedule 
TECHNICAL SECONDARY SCHOOL                              )986        1956           1987           191.195                        1990           1991           ii9i
YOCATIONAL 7RAIINQN CENTER                              1  ii.24 123                                     I   .j.   .L.L.L2L..L.L.    .J....2.L2.4 .  2.L.L.A...L.L.L. 4 Z....2.L.4
ppgtan/tanstructtan
Preliminary design                                 X   Xo
Construction drawings                                   X X    X
Bid documents                                            XX     Xo
Bidding (ICE)                                                      K  Xo
'Construction                                                              K                   XXXX  XX   X    N
Guarantee period                                                                                              X      X X   X 
EauiImnt/Furni turi
Final lists and ipecifications                            K    Xo
Bid documents                                             X    Ko
Bidding (ICE For TSS)                                               X      X NO  No
Delivery                                                                           XX    X X xX 
Installation                                                                                          XX  X  XX  
Guarantee period                                                                                              X      X   XX        XXX     X  XX
lachnical AsSistanep
Consultantsi
Sanaa TSS                                                             ox
Hodeida TSS                                                                a   X
Talz VTC                                                                                                      X XX X    XXX   X XX X
Flalowshipsn (Hodeidsh TSS)
I  Director                                                                                         ox 
4 Instructors                                                                                        oxX XX   X                                                                 to
NTTI   Advisor                                                        ox  X   K  K  K  X
Prn1nvastnunt Dasians                                                                                ox  X   k  K  K  K
a IDA review/approval                                                                                                                                        Closing Date
2024Vp.42                                        Credit Signing                                                                                              Dec. 31, 1992



vIIeN AlmRU A "PB
TICHUIC*L ThAIMING PEO.JICT
lameninklan Schdi
POLYTECHNIC SANAA                              19ss        1916          Iga?          19as           1959          1990          1991           19192
POLYTECH"SC SAX M                  X  *2     1  2  2             2  1987  l       2    4   1  2  2  4   l  2  2  4     n 1  2 2  4  --I
Diis.niCanstrutieLn
Preliminary design                              X   Xo
Constructlan drawings                                   X   X
Bid documnts                                         X  X   Xo
Bidding (XCI)                                                   X  Xo
Construction                                                           K   X  X  X  X    X X  X X       XX      K X   X  X
Guarantee period                                                                                                         X XX  X
EauliMnntiFurnitur
Final lists and specificatians                       X  X   X  Xo
Bid documents                                           X   X  Xo
Bidding UsCS)                                                      X  Xo  X Xo
Delivery                                                                             X   X   X   X    X   X  X X
Installation                                                                                    X  X   X   X   X    X   X X
Guarantee period                                                                                x x      X  X   X    X   X X   X    X XX
I  Technical Advisor                                                                                                        oX  X   X  X XX  X  X
6  Curriculum Consultants                                                                          0   XXXX              XX          XX            X  X X  X
I Instructor Trainer                                                                                              o   X        X  X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X
I  Oirector                                                        o  X                                  oX
9 instructors                                                                oX  X X    X X  X  X   X XX X 
3 Instructor Trainers                                                                          oX  X I  X  X  X K
a IDA review/approval                                                                                                                               Closing Date
2024Vp.42                                     Credit Sigo1ing                                                                                      Dec. 31S  1992



- 37 -
Annex 2
Schedule III
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECINICAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Action Plan for Proiect Implementation
Item                                        Completion Date
Equipment
1.  Equipment lists sent for IDA for review                  February 1, 1986
2.  Equipment lists (Polytechnic) IDA for review             June 1, 1986
3.  Bid documents sent for IDA for review                    February 1, 1986
4.  Bid documents (Polytechnic) sent for IDA review          June 1, 986
5.  Completion of ICB and hid evaluation                     March 31, 1987
6.  Completion of ICB and bid evaluation (Polytechnic)       June 1, 1987
7.  Award of Contracts                                       April 1, 1987
8.  Award of Contracts (Polytechnic)                         July 1, 1987
9.  Manufacture and delivery                                 December 31, 1988
10. Manufacture and delivery (Polytechnic)                   December 31, 1989
11. Installation of equipment                                August 31, 1989
12. Installation of equipment (Polytechnic)                  August 31, 1990
Civil Works
1.  Construction drawings finalized                          February 28, 1986
2.  Construction drawings finalized (Polytechnic)            March 30, 1986
3.  Bid documents sent for IDA review                        February 28, 1986
4.  Bid documents sent for IDA review (Polytechnic)          March 30, 1986
5.  Comuencement of ICB                                      March 31, 1986
6.  Comnencement of ICB (Polytechnic)                        Nay 31, 1986
7.  Completion of ICB and bid evaluation                     June 30, 1986
8.  Completion of ICB and bid evaluation (Polytechnic)       August 31, 1986
9.  Award of contracts                                       August 15, 1986
10.  Award of contract (Polytechnic)                         September 15, 1986
11.  Completion date of construction                         March 31, 1989
12.  Completion date of construction                         March 31, 1990
Technical Assistance
1.  Draft terms of reference of consultants                  January 1, 1986
for IDA review
2.  Draft fellowship plan for IDA review                     January 1, 1986
3.  Recruitment of fellows                                   March 31, 1986
4.  Recruitment of NTTB adviser                              March 31, 1986
5.  Recruitment of consultants                               September 30, 1986
6.   Target completion date for fellowships                  December 31, 1989
7.  Target completion date for consultants                   June 30, 1992
Other
1.  NTTB to be established by                                July 1, 1986
2.  NTTB Work Plan sent for IDA review                       July 1, 1987



- 38 -                         Annex 2
Schedule IV
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in US$ million)
Disbursement Profile
IDA Fiscal Year            Disbursements        Credit        This     Country
and Semester         Semester   Cumulative   Balance    Project a/ Average b/
US$ million                        Z
1986
2                      0.5 c/      0.5        12.2         3.9         1.0
1987
1                      0.0         0.5        12.2        3.9          4.0
2                      0.5         1.0        11.7         7.8         9.0
1.988
1                     0.9          1.9        10.8       15.0         16.0
2                      1.3         3.2         9.5       25.2         25.0
1989
1                      1.5         4.7         8.0       37.0         34.0
2                      1.7         6.4         6.3       50.4         44.0
1990
1                      1.9         8.3         4.4       65.3         54.0
2                      1.8        10.1         2.6       79.5         64.0
1991
1                     1.0         11.1         1.6       87.4         72.0
2                     0.7         11.8         0.9       92.9         80.0
1992
1                     0.5         12.3         0.4       96.8         85.0
2                     0.2         12.5         0.2       98.4         91.0
1993
1                     0.2         12.7         0.0      100.0         95.0
a/ This profile shows cumulative disbursement percentage estimates for the
proposed project.
b/ This profile was ccnstructed using historical data from 35 projects
representing all credits in YAR during the period FY74 through FY82.
c/ Represents initial deposit amount in project special account (para. 3.15).
Closing Date: December 31, 1992



- 39 -
Annex 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
A. Reports and Studies Related to the Country
Yemen Arab Republic, The Second Five-Year Plan, 1982-86,
Manpower Development in the Yemen Arab Republic, World Bank Report No.
3181-YAR, dated March 2, 1981.
B. Reports and Studies Related to Education and Training
Yemen Arab Republic, Education Special Study-Administration and Finance,
World Bank Report No. 4020-YAR, dated August 31, 1982.
Yemen Arab Republic, Education Sector Memorandum Update, World Bank Report
No. 4501-YAR, dated February 1984.
Yemen Arab Republic, Education Special Study --National Institute of Public
Administration, World Bank Report No. 4470-YAR, dated May 10, 1983.
M1. Zymelman, Educational Expenditures in the 1970's (June 1982)
C. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
Yemen Arab Republic, Special Study on Vocational Training and Technical
Education, World Bank Report No. 5518-YAR, dated February 28, 1985.
Feasibility Study, Phase I, Polytechnical Institute, YAR, Educancult
Limited, Toronto, Canada, dated January 1985.
Feasibility Study. Phase II, Polytechnical Institute, YAR, Educansult
Limited, Toronto, Canada, dated June 1985.



_ ________                                                                                            IBRD 19050
,  ,      -.   *                        w              
S A U D I  A R A B I A                              YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
-i                                                     TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
,,.,.o~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ P0'-h .-f, I
N.  -,,eI                               
,__-                                            NAJU oAN
w _ . _   S >  z                                       l   v  n ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T,-  Conwr
..                    I       I   .-SAMARA                                    R
JLU   Vaca,.SAADAH      /                     -       t,
'- \ -I ~~~~~SAAD^H                                                             / w 
___' ___                                                               -        Iaw Pw bad
Othw loodis
CObi.N*W d VEqits
0~~~~~~~
.    v          ~~~HAJJ A      II-
-tr                 )MA e                        lH R        _   - '                                  ETE               WI
0      20      40      s0
N~ ~ ~ ~~~AW
J    ABS  O~~HAJ0        
J   WA                   IAW                ,              
/   \      r O t '/<                            
lBEZ    St   aR   DMAR   /           I   V  5    i         \KARG
/ OD                                          GUD    OF  ADA
AL JU                                          E                        J     19Y5
~~~~A .       of A ^^
, NiOC~~~~~~HAI E
E T H ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~D M C A I                               CO  P      U A  Lv IC
fE~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    F   Y'-.E 
/                                     ~~~~~~~~GUx f   OF   AUflV
/         I B O U T I                                                      --      _ --,         _    __ 
JUNE 1985



