CREDIT NUMBER 1645 YAR
Development Credit Agreement
(Technical Training Project)
between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated        .                      , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1645 YAR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 9 CI -  q   , 1986, between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (the Borrowel and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to secure under existing arrange-
ments with the Federal Repubic of Germany (the Co-Financier) an
amount (the Co-Financing Amount) equivalent to $7,200,000 to
assist in financing Parts A and C of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Board" means the National Technical Training Board
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(b)  "MOE" means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
and
(c) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to     in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent    to   twelve   million    Special   Drawing    Rights
(SDR 12,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Central
Bank of Yemen on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to


﻿-3-
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing March 1, 1996, and ending September 1,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on September 1, 2005 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MOE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, engineering, administrative and educa-
tional practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause MOE: (i) to assign the tech-
nical responsibilities for Project execution to its Directorate
of Technical Education and Vocational Training; and (ii) to
employ, by January 1, 1986, a suitably qualified director for
the polytechnic referred to in Part A of the Project,
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (a) by July 1, 1986, take
all governmental action required for the formal establishment of
the Board; (b) prepare with the assistance of an expert employed


﻿-4-
under the Project, and provide to the Association, not later than
twelve months following the establishment of the Board, a plan
for its operation, including the details referred to in Part D
(1) of the Project; and (c) thereafter carry out such plan,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and provide
to the Association for its comments, by July 1, 1986, a program
for (i) the employment of experts required for the implementation
of the Project, including the terms of reference of such experts,
and (ii) the selection of candidates for training fellowships
provided under the Project; and (b) after reviewing the Associa-
tion's comments thereon, implement such program in accordance
with a time schedule satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause MOE to maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices its operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause MOE to:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by the said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and


﻿-5-
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause MOE to:
(i) maintain in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Development and Chairman of
the Central Planning Organization of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Central Planning Organization
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:                       Telex:
CENPLAN                            2266 CENPLAN YE
SANA'A
For the Association:
Internation1 Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By  d5
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                   P-  /0'z'Q;~   ~~p~4~
Regional Vice President
Europe Middle East and North Africa


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works:                               45%
(a) Polytechnic         2,460,000
(b) TSS Hodeida         1,370,000
(c) TSS Sana'a            140,000
(d) VTC Taiz            1,510,000
(Part C.2 of
the Project)
(2) Equipment and
furniture:
(a) Polytechnic         2,740,000     )
(b) TSS Hodeida         1,130,000      )    100% of foreign
(c) TSS Sana'a            660,000     )    expenditures
)    100% of local
)    expenditures
)    (ex-factory
(3) Specialists:                            )   cost) and 85%
)    of local ex-
(a) TSS Hodeida            20,000     )    penditures for
(b) TSS Sana'a             10,000      )   other items pro-
(c) The Board             170,000      )   cured locally
(d)  Preinvestment        270,000      )    100% of foreign
studies                           )   expenditures
(4) Fellowships:                                 100% of foreign
expenditures
(a) Polytechnic           640,000
(b) TSS Hodeida           170,000
(5) Unallocated                710,000
TOTAL             12,000,000


﻿9
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied froia the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "TSS" means any of the technical secondary
schools referred to in Part B of the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist in the imple-
mentation of the Borrower's priority technical training programs
for: (i) improving tbe quality and increasing the quantity of
trained technical manpower and of qualified instructors for
technical training; and (ii) strengthening the institutions
responsible for technical training.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Polytechnic
1.   The construction, furnishing and equipping of a polytechnic
in Sanaa for the training of (i) technicians for the manu-
facturing, transportation and construction industries, and (ii)
instructors for technical training.
2.   The development, with the assistance of specialists, of de-
tailed curriculum materials for the specializations provided at,
and for the training of instructors for the polytechnic referred
to in I above.
3.   Training fellowships for the instructors referred to in 2
above.
Part B:   Technical Secondary Schools
1.   The construction, furnishing and equipping of a technical
secondary school in Hodeidah.
2.   The development, with the assistance of specialists, of
curricula for the courses provided, and for the training of
instructors at the school referred to in (a) above.
3.   Training fellowships for the instructors referred to in 2
above.
4.   Improvement of the existing technical secondary school     in
Sana'a through: (i) the re-equipping of laboratories and
workshops; (ii) the construction and equipping of two new work-


﻿- 11 -
shops; and (iii) the updating of curricula with the assistance of
specialists.
Part C:   Vocational Training Center
1.   The construction, furnishing and equipping of a new building
for the existing vocational training center in Taiz.
2.   The development of curricula and training of instructors
for the center referred to in (1) above.
Part D:   Institutional Development
1.   The establishment of the Board, including the preparation
of its terms of reference, organization plan and operational
procedures.
2.   Preinvestment designs for possible future technical educa-
tion projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment and
furniture shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more each.
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Yemen
Arab Republic may be granted a margin of preference in accor-
dance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items of equipment and furniture which are estimated to cost
the equivalent of not more than $50,000 per contract or which,
due to their specialized nature, the Bank and the Borrower agree
that their procurement may not be undertaken pursuant to Part A.1
of this schedule, may be procured on the basis of comparison and
evaluation, pursuant to the Borrower's procedures, of price
quotations obtained from not less than the reliable suppliers of
such items; provided, however, that the aggregate amount of
contracts awarded in accordance with this paragraph shall not
exceed the equivalent of $700,000.
2.   Civil works for the construction of workshops under Part B
(4) (ii) of the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures;
provided, however, that (i) all bidders shall be treated equally
in terms of the requirement of furnishing bid or performance


﻿- 13 -
security, and (ii) bids arriving after the stipulated deadline
for the submission of bids shall not be considered.
Part D.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out. of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4
(the Special Account Schedule) to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Specialists
In order to assist the Borrower in the implementation of the
Project  Lne Borrower shall employ specialists whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such specialists shall be


﻿- 14 -
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to  the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount of
SDR 470,000 equivalent to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdra-
wals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,


﻿- 16 -
each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus
the amount of any outstanding qualified agreement
to reimburse made by the Association and of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, shall be equal to the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such pro-
cedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Bor-
rower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as
of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2


﻿- 17 -
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association for deposit in the Credit Account) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Association into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made
such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   .       day of
198   .
FOR SECRETARY


