Report No. PID11598
Project Name                     BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA-Education Restructuring Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           General education sector (100%)
Project ID                       P079226
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF BOSNIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Project Coordination Unit
Address: Ministry of Education
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
BiH
Contact Person: Kerim Karabdic
Project Coordination Unit
Address: Ministry of Education
Republic of Srpska
BiH
Contact Person: Zdravko Marjanovic
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                February 3, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              June 14, 2003
Bank Approval Date               December 16, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
This section describes the major issues across the sector, beginning with
pre-school and ending with the issue of discrimination which cuts across
all levels of education. However, the bulk of the section deals with
issues in secondary VET and tertiary education which have been identified
by the Bank as the two key sub-sectors where the lack of relevance and low
participation rates are hindering economic growth and more equitable
resource distribution in BiH. Obviously secondary VET cannot be looked at
in isolation from general secondary education. The main discussion of
general secondary education is in the sub-sections which follow on
education funding and strategic development.    This section ends with a
summary discussion of the government's reform strategy.
Pre-School
Pre-school education is not compulsory in any part of BiH. The number of
pre-schools has fallen dramatically since the Soviet period as most were
attached to public enterprises. Enrollment in the Federation is estimated
to be 8 percent (no figures are available for the RS), with only about one
percent of children the lowest quintile households accessing pre-school
compared to 10 percent in the richest quintile. The supervision and
occasional financing of pre-school education is the responsibility of
municipalities, though it falls under social services rather than
education.



Vocational Education and Training
Occupational programs are focused on a narrow range of occupational skills
Throughout the rest of Europe, vocational programs are increasingly
emphasizing broad occupational skills, for example, a program covering
hospitality and tourism, which introduces the student to a wide range of
jobs within this entire sector, rather than a program designed to train
only receptionists or waiters. These European programs are underpinned by
strong general education skills and offer students opportunities for
moving between programs and for further study (so called 'dual qualifying
pathways') ("Transition from Initial Education to Working Life" (OECD
2000)). In this way, students are given the foundation for learning
throughout their adult lives.
About three-quarters of students in secondary education in BiH are in
vocational schools, either in three year or four year programs. Most
students study in the three year programs which are characterized by a
curriculum which provides students with only a narrow range of
occupational skills -- for example, baker, cook or waiter -- with
relatively low general education demands and lack of opportunity for
tertiary study. The Sarajevo Canton offers 180 separate three-year
programs, and similar numbers are offered throughout BiH. A number of
these programs are offered in occupations where job opportunities are few
or non-existent - for example, mining engineer and florist. Finally, the
infrastructure and equipment used in these programs has become out of date
or damaged due to the war, and opportunities for work placements have
declined with the economy; as a result the programs have emphasized
theoretical study over practical skills.
Apart from questions of labor market relevance or the demands of modern
society, re-building BiH's VET system as it is currently structured is not
possible from a financial perspective. It is generally recognized in BiH
and elsewhere that occupationally-specific programs are more expensive
than general programs, due to lower student-teacher ratios and the need
for specialized equipment and teacher training. As secondary enrollments
expand in the coming years, maintaining quality and improving relevance
will largely be a function of expanding general education programs in BiH.
An ongoing EU project is upgrading the curriculum of 6 vocational
programs. This project has been able to build a consensus among the
various constituent groups for a revised curriculum, which means that
certificates from these programs will be recognized throughout BiH. The
project has also provided modern equipment and teacher training. However,
as the improved programs continue to be narrowly occupational and even
more classroom time is being devoted to occupational practice, life long
learning and labor flexibility goals are not being met. The education
systems in BiH have not yet begun the transition to the skills- and
knowledge-based, cross-occupational secondary programs called for in the
VET Green Paper.
Four year technician programs throughout BiH offer a more challenging
curriculum and access to tertiary education, although quality and
relevance improvements are needed. In the development of broad-based
programs, strong consideration should be given to merging three and
- 2-



four-year VET programs, at least in the initial years of secondary. Such
a reform would have the advantage of allowing children more time to learn
and mature before they chosen a narrower occupational training program.
There is another curriculum issue that needs attention. The curriculum in
secondary education, in both VET and general education, is overloaded,
with students often studying numerous subjects. Any move to broaden the
vocational curriculum in the first years of secondary education will need
to ensure that this broadening does not take the form merely of adding
further subjects to the curriculum.
Poor outcomes/results
As an apparent consequence of the narrow vocational curriculum, and the
perceived lack of relevance to their future lives, students drop out from
vocational programs at a much higher rate than from general education
(gymnasium) schools (Poverty Assessment). Unemployment rates are also
higher for adults who attended these programs, with 44 percent of male
vocational graduates either out of the labor force, discouraged from
entering it, or unemployed, compared to 34 percent of male general
education graduates. In addition, vocational graduates have double the
rate of participation in the informal sector. Finally, the poor are much
more likely to enter these programs. This has the effect of perpetuating
a cycle of disadvantage in which the poor have access to secondary
education of poorer quality and then either drop out or are less able to
find employment.
Tertiary Education
Lack of common standards
BiH lacks common standards in a number of ways: across its highly
autonomous faculties within a single university, between the universities
within BiH, and between universities in BiH and those in Europe. This has
two important consequences. First, it makes it impossible for students or
policy makers to make informed judgments about the quality of a university
or indeed faculties within a university. Students cannot express their
demand for quality and policy makers cannot use incentives (financial or
otherwise) to promote quality.
Second, students are denied the ability to move to different institutions
within BiH and Europe. Without commonly accepted standards about the
levels of performance that students are expected to achieve at the end of
a course of study or degree program, a student cannot demonstrate to
another institution what skills and knowledge he or she has acquired.
Instead, when they move to another institution, they must begin their
studies all over again. This is why universities across Europe are moving
towards a common credit based system in which each institution would
recognize and accept credits earned and degrees awarded at other
institutions.
Some initial steps to create a credit system are being started under the
ongoing Education Development Project, both within and across
institutions. These pilots will need to be evaluated and then the system
expanded to cover all institutions and the whole country.
-3 -



Funding system lacks transparency and is based solely on inputs
There are no common budgeting formulas and/or regulations for determining
financing plans and executing them across the entities and across cantons
in the Federation (funding for higher education in the Federation is the
responsibility of cantons). Yet, budgets are input-based and students
numbers (of both fee paying and state supported students) are controlled
by the respective ministries of education. This results in highly uneven
per student spending across BiH. For example, within the Federation,
spending in Tuzla is three times as high as that in Neretva, while the RS
spends generally lower than the average for the Federation overall.
In addition to traditional public funding, universities get considerable
resources from elsewhere. There is also an elaborate system of formal and
informal cross-subsidies among funding districts. Croat-majority cantons
and enclave municipalities in the Federation which do not have higher
education institutions pool public resources to fund the attendance of
students at Mostar West, although such transfers are reported to be not
routinely enforced. Bosniac-majority cantons provide student subsidies
(transport, accommodation, etc.) to higher education students from their
areas, but do not provide budgetary resources for the operation of
universities outside their areas which are attended by their students.
The result is that the Canton of Sarajevo, which is the most affluent
canton per capita and owns the largest university (the University of
Sarajevo enrolls approximately half of all higher education students in
BiH), provides large informal subsidies to other cantons for higher
education. Fee revenue and self-financing income from students is also
significant at all universities, but is often unrecorded.
The lack of transparency of these financing arrangements means that it is
impossible to create a system in which universities which receive students
from across cantonal or entity boundaries can be reimbursed. This reduces
the degree of mobility of students. Without such a system of
reimbursement, certain universities are effectively subsidizing higher
education students from other cantons. This may have positive effects on
equity if these institutions are sustained by richer cantons and the
students come from poorer cantons. However, the lack of transparency
makes it impossible to determine whether and to what extent this is the
case. It also means that policy makers are unable to improve the
efficiency of the system by identifying higher cost institutions and
programs.
Fragmentation of institutions
Since the end of the war, there has been a proliferation of the number of
institutions of higher education in BiH, partly because different
constituent groups have moved to create separate faculties for each
subject. This has resulted in a large number of small institutions with a
resulting loss of economies of scale.
The situation is compounded by the autonomy that individual faculties
exercise even when they are notionally part of a larger university.
Faculties collect revenue and determine the subjects that they will
offer. In addition, each faculty strives to offer a comprehensive
curriculum (for example, the law faculty will also offer language
- 4 -



courses). This results in significant duplication of provision and high
unit costs.
The strategic planning process and the development of institutional
development plans, supported under the ongoing Education Development
Project, have begun the process of reducing the autonomy of individual
faculties and ultimately consolidating management of institutions. These
changes need to be extended to all universities. In all educational
administrations, with the exception of the Tuzla canton which has
re-structured its university system, the legal framework is an obstacle to
these types of reforms.
Inadequate opportunities for adults to return to education
Universities in BiH, in common with most universities in developing
countries (and indeed many in developed ones), serve mainly young, full
time learners who begin their studies immediately after completing
secondary education. As a consequence, there are only limited
opportunities for those in the workforce, or who are unemployed but have
completed secondary education, to return to education to upgrade their
skills or change their careers. When working adults do return to the
system, with the exception of post graduate programs which cater to
adults, they are disadvantaged relative to the majority of students: they
pay higher fees, lectures are not held in the evening or weekends but
rather during regular business hours, and professors are not readily
available. In addition, programs are designed for study over a four year
period.
Education Funding and Strategic Development
Funding system lacks transparency and is based solely on inputs
It appears that public spending as a proportion of GDP is high in BiH
relative to OECD and EU averages - around 6 percent compared to 5.4
percent in OECD countries - but this figure should be treated with caution
since there is some doubt about the GDP figure itself (especially in the
Federation and the high average is mainly driven by higher than average
spending in the Federation). It appears that this level of spending is a
result of: the fragmentation of educational administration -- not only
into 12 educational authorities but also into smaller than average school
sizes; a budget system that is based on inputs and with no incentives to
promote efficiency; and a high proportion of spending on wages and
salaries, especially since part-time teachers receive full time benefits.
Finally, as with higher education, there appear to be significant
unrecorded budget transfers in some cantons.
Capacity of cantonal ministries to plan and set strategic policy is
limited
Within this budgetary framework, educational administrations do not have
the information they need to pursue more efficient and effective
policies. In addition, many administrations have only a small number of
staff and schools. Their capacity to pursue strategic improvements in
quality and efficiency are therefore limited.
- 5-



Wide variation in spending
A final consequence of the current budgetary framework in general
education is that spending varies considerably across the educational
administrations, due to differences in the capacity to raise taxes and in
unrecorded budget transfers. For example, public spending per capita in
Sarajevo is KM285, which is almost three times that in Goradze at KM99.
This reflects both a lower level of development in Goradze and its lower
share of education in total spending. Similarly, spending per secondary
student varies between KM507 in RS and KM1,358 in Sarajevo. Of course,
spending is not expected to be identical in every educational
administration, given their differences in size, age structure and
geography, but the variations are large and are a source of inequity.
The system is not financially sustainable, especially with expansion of
high cost new vocational programs
Overall enrollments in secondary education are good relative to other
countries with a similar GDP per capita - it is estimated that about 70
percent of children of the relevant age attend secondary schools according
to the Poverty Assessment. However, children from poor families are much
less likely to attend school - only about 50 percent of these children go
to school. The current lack of economic opportunities may result in more
children delaying entry into the labor market. Countries in the EU see
completion of secondary education as the basic minimum for effective
functioning in the knowledge society. Secondary enrollments in BiH will
inevitably rise in BiH in the coming years.
As mentioned above, the poor have historically been enrolled into
vocational education programs, which are much more expensive than general
programs. Enrollment increases will place additional strain on resources
and it is inevitable for reasons of financial sustainability that the
expansion to come must be in general or broad-based programs, rather than
in occupationally-specific vocational programs.
Discrimination
Anecdotal evidence continues to abound about varieties of discriminatory
practices at the local level throughout the educational system. Textbooks
have been developed by each ethnic group, especially in the 'national'
subjects like history and language, often reflecting biased views about
recent and past history. Students of ethnic minorities in a given canton
are forced to study in the language of the majority group and observe the
associated religious rituals. Parents in some areas continue to instill
in their children racist attitudes. The Organization for Security and
Cooperation in Europe and the Office of the High Representative are active
on this issue, monitoring developments, occasionally banning educational
materials, and trying to develop a common curriculum to be used in all
schools.
Government Strategy
In preparation for the Peace Implementation Council (PIC) meeting in
November 2002, 6 working groups developed a set of policy objectives and
recommendations across a number of different issues (Education Access and
- 6 -



Non-Discrimination; Primary and General Secondary Education; Vocational
Education; Higher Education; Finance and Management; and Education
Legislation). These working groups consisted of local stakeholders plus
the international community. The recommendations from these working
groups were then endorsed by the ministers of 11 education ministries in
BiH and presented to the PIC meeting.
The recommendations from the Working Groups form the basis for all of the
policy changes being proposed in the project. However, that it cannot be
said that these recommendations or this consensus constitute a Government
strategy in the traditional sense. For one thing, there are a very large
number of recommendations, and while some have timelines for completion,
there has been no attempt to create a list of priority actions. Nor has a
price tag been put on the reforms proposed. Second, a number of the
actions fall to the individual education jurisdictions to implement and
there is no guarantee that all (or indeed a significant) number will
actually be implemented. Third, the groups worked throughout an election
period and the governments that actually signed the documents were
outgoing rather than incoming administrations (during the elections there
was a significant political shift towards more nationalist parties in both
Entities). Finally, the working group process has been to varying degrees
influenced by the international community participants and so may not in
all cases accurately reflect the level of consensus among local
stakeholders and policy makers.
In addition to the working group process summarized above, the Government
of BiH (as represented by the State level) is currently preparating a
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). The policy recommendations of
the initial draft of the PRSP education chapter are consistent with the
PIC paper in substance and in the lack of prioritization. The PRSP
process includes a costing exercise, funded through a PHRD grant and
assisted by the Bank, that is expected to help the Government begin the
process of prioritization. This exercise is expected to be completed in
spring 2003.
Given the lack of prioritization in the Government's strategy to date, the
approach in the proposed project has been to identify and support reforms
where it is relatively clear that there is consensus at the level of
education professionals at least about the principles underlying the
proposed policy. An additional criterion, discussed below, is the value
added by the Bank. During preparation it will be necessary to test the
extent to which these agreements can be found on the details of
implementation.
2. Objectives
The overall project objectives are to: (a) increase participation in
secondary education and access to tertiary education, particularly among
the poor; and (b) improve the relevance of public secondary and tertiary
education programs in BIH to meet the skill and knowledge demands of the
labor market and the knowledge economy, also with a focus on the relevance
of programs in which the poor are more heavily represented.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
-7-



The Bank is the largest international agency involved in the education
sector in terms of development funding. While other institutions, notably
the European Commission and the Council of Europe, have a significant
staffing presence in the country, their resources are relatively limited
and their staff are, for the most part, not education specialists. Indeed
the proposed project is intended to allow each agency to play to its
strengths: the proposed reforms would in part deepen the reforms started
by other agencies (for example, reinforcing VET reforms ongoing under the
EC-Cards program). Finally, in the context of the PRSP exercise and the
Bank's upcoming economic management SAC, the Bank is the only institution
that is consistently viewing education issues from a country perspective
in terms of economic and finance issues.
In other areas of the proposed project, such as capacity development in
the higher education sector, integration with the European Higher
Education community and the funding formula for schools, the Bank has
already been active through the ongoing Education Development Project.
4. Description
Project components have been identified together with government
counterparts and in the context of the priorities and programs of other
education donors in BiH. PHRD funding has been requested to support
preparation, terms of reference aimed at supporting preparation of each
component have been drafted, and procurement of consultants is underway.
This project -- as with the previous Education Development Project (FYOO)
-- will provide much of its funding in the form of demand-driven Fund
mechanisms which will make development funding available directly to
schools and universities. The Bank will make an effort to interest other
donors in funding some of the technical assistance initiatives proposed
below, as was the case with the previous project for which the EU and the
Government of Italy financed major technical assistance packages prepared
with Bank support. If other donors do agree to fund some of the technical
assistance described below, IDA funding would be re-allocated to the Fund
components.
In view of the EC/Cards technical assistance initiatives currently in
place, the majority of World Bank financing is likely to be made available
in the form of competitive grant funds which would allow individual
institutions or schools, or groups of institutions or schools, to compete
for funding to design or implement policy changes or programs.
Two grant fund mechanisms have been identified:
n A Secondary Reform Transition Fund ($4 million) would make grants
available to groups of secondary schools to finance: (a) the development
or initial implementation of new broad based curricula or
technical/vocational curriculum families; and (b) in-service retraining
programs designed to improve the capacity of teachers to deliver new
programs. Based on guidelines to be developed, proposals would be
requested from schools which deliver common programs and these proposals
would be evaluated by a central board or steering committee. Grant
contracts could be signed directly with qualifying schools for curriculum
implementation or directly with training providers (faculties, pedagogical
institutes, external technical assistance sources, etc.) in the case of
teacher re-training. Technical assistance would be provided in this
- 8-



component to assist with outreach for school development planning and
proposal preparation, and to assist the implementation of the Fund. This
funding is expected to complement an ongoing EC/Cards program which
provides assistance for curriculum development through a technical
assistance program.
n A Higher Education Grant Fund ($4.5 million), currently implementing
under the ongoing Education Development Project, will be extended in order
to continue to support institutional development planning at BiH's seven
universities and to fund the investment costs of institutional development
plans that are approved and endorsed by the Higher Education Coordinating
Board. The ongoing $3 million Higher Education Grant Fund has been
successful in promoting institutional development planning in BH, and
serves as important leverage for university officials to gain approval for
and begin implementing restructuring reforms. Ongoing funding is expected
to be fully committed by end-2003 and disbursed by end-2004. The second
phase of Higher Education Grant Funding proposed for this project will be
aimed at facilitating the shift of legal status from the faculty to the
university in all institutions save University of Tuzla which has already
made this reform, and at introducing efficiency and equity criteria into
institutional development planning for all universities. In addition to
needed governance reforms, indicators of success of this phase of funding
would be a reduction in the cost per graduate in programs to be selected,
and an increase in access to tertiary level programs by the poor.
Technical assistance will be required outside the Fund mechanism to assist
institutions in common with institutional development planning.
In addition to these grant funding mechanisms, the project will likely
finance limited technical assistance for policy formulation, program
design and implementation. Technical assistance packages are being
developed under PHRD funding in cooperation with the EC-Delegation in
BiH. Given the successful parallel financing arrangement with the EC
under the Education Development Project, it is expected that selected
technical assistance initiatives to be designed during project preparation
will be considered for financing by the EC under its future Cards
programs. The technical assistance to be defined under the project is as
follows:
General Education Finance: technical assistance and limited training in
the amount of approximately $800,000 will be funded to facilitate the
design and implementation of formula-based financing mechanisms for
publicly provided general education. Support for devolving funding on a
per student basis to municipalities or schools will be offered to funding
districts that opt for such support, although devolution will not be a
requirement of the formula funding approach.
Higher Education Finance: technical assistance and limited training in the
amount of approximately $600,000 will support the introduction of Entity
level funding (rather than cantonal funding in the Federation), the
introduction of per student financing mechanisms for each Entity (so that
faculties and courses receive funding according to enrollments), and the
expansion of fees that reflect costs (so students can make course choices
in the light of future employment prospects and course costs, and in order
to enhance equity as graduates generally have higher incomes than those
who have not been to university).
-9-



Secondary Transition: technical assistance in the amount of approximately
$300,000 will be provided to assist the Government with school outreach
for development planning and proposal writing and to help manage the fund
mechanism. The fund will aim to facilitate the development of broad-based
curricular programs and technical/professional curricular families for
secondary education (including materials and assessment instruments), in
collaboration with the ongoing EC-Cards project. The piloting of new
programs and teacher re-training would be financed via the grant fund
mechanism described above.
Credit Transfer System: technical assistance in the amount of about
$300,000 will be provided to facilitate the development of common credit
transfer schemes for subjects to be identified to be used by all
universities in BiH.     Assist those universities which have begun to work
on a CTS, such as the University of Banja Luka and the University of
Tuzla, in their development of internal credit schemes under the existing
project.
Student Loan Scheme: technical assistance in the amount of approximately
$300,000 will help define the mechanisms and systems required for the
successful introduction of a student loan scheme in BiH and assist in the
initial implementation of such a scheme. Start up capital for student
loans will not be provided under the project. The loan scheme would be
expected to encourage early completion and discourage students from
repeating years, and is expected to be an important incentive to
facilitate the introduction of higher private contributions to higher
education and better targeting of public funding on those who cannot
afford to contribute.
In addition to the above interventions, approximately $600,000 has been
allocated to project coordination which will be carried out by the
existing Project Coordination Units in the Federation of BiH and the RS.
The two education PCUs have successfully coordinated implementation of the
ongoing Education Development Project.
Secondary Transition Fund
Higher Education Fund
Education Finance Institution Building
Higher Education Restructuring Institution Building
Project Coordination
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $1.50
IBRD
IDA $10.00
ERROR: Network operation did not complete in a reasonable amount of time;
please retry
Total Project Cost $11.50
6. Implementation
The grant fund mechanisms described above are expected to be managed by
the two existing Project Coordination Units in the Federation of Bosnia
and the Republika Srpska. The PCU's have developed significant
implementation experience in managing grant funding mechanisms as part of
the ongoing Education Development Project. Manuals and selection criteria
- 10 -



will be developed during project preparation, and in collaboration with
ongoing EC-Cards initiatives. The procurement of technical assistance and
training contracts will be managed by the PCUs, while the responsibility
for managing technical experts will be shared with other stakeholder
institutions such as the Secretariat of the BiH Higher Education
Coordinating Board, for assistance to higher and post secondary education,
and the Standards and Assessment Agency of FBiH and RS, for assistance to
secondary and adult training. Technical assistance contracts and both the
grant fund mechanisms would be apportioned on a two thirds, one third
basis between the two entities in BiH.
7. Sustainability
Medium term fiscal constraints in BiH impose the need for efficiency gains
and increased private funding for education if secondary enrollments in
BiH are to increase from their current level of about 70- and if access to
tertiary education in BiH is going to increase from its current level of
about 109 of the age group.   In addition to focusing directly on enhancing
the relevance of programs (or increasing the system's external efficiency)
nearly all project components are expected to contribute to a focus on
efficiency and equity in public education. In particular, per student
funding systems will provide efficiency incentives and highlight equity
issues; secondary reform will help reduce the need for expensive
occupationally-specific programs; higher education restructuring will help
universities consolidate programs; and the credit transfer and student
loan schemes will help improve student flow in higher education and
increase private contributions to the sector.
The Bank has been assisting the Government in developing detailed costs
for the various proposals in the PRSP (to be completed in the Spring).
This exercise will provide evidence of the likely extent of the efficiency
gains under the project.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank is proposing to continue a focus on Fund mechanisms to promote
development and demand driven initiatives in BiH, rather than depend on
centralized procurement of goods and services to be delivered by the
fragmented institutional structure to schools and universities. The
success of these Fund mechanisms in terms of making resources available to
beneficiaries has been proven in the ongoing project, and the project PCUs
have proved adept at managing them. In addition, eligibility will be
conditioned in the case of the next phase of the Higher Education Fund on
the acceptance of legal restructuring of institutions. Other difficult
reform measures, such as entity level funding for higher education, would
likely not be possible without the support through a parallel adjustment
credit.
More focus will be given in this project to setting baseline data for
measuring outcomes under the grant mechanism. The terms of reference for
the consultant working on this component include a requirement to agree
what indicators should be used and how they should be monitored.
Greater engagment and dialogue is needed with cantonal ministries of
education and the RS Ministry of Education to ensure the reforms are
spread across as many institutions as possible: this is especially the
case with the secondary education and education finance aspects of the
- 11 -



project.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  None
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
James A. Stevens
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2848
Fax:   (202) 477-0574
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 12 -



