Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4080 BOS 
 
Federation Project Agreement 
 
(Education Restructuring Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
Dated June 12, 2006 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4080 BOS 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 2006 between the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the FEDERATION OF 
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the Federation, or FBH). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to six 
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,700,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
the Federation agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set 
forth in this Agreement;  
 
(B) 
by a subsidiary credit agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the Federation (the Subsidiary Credit Agreement), the Borrower will make available 
to the Federation a portion of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Federation
,
in consideration of the Association’s entering into 
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of Part A of the Project 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 2.01. (a) The Federation declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, educational, financial, and technical practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Federation shall otherwise agree, the Federation 
shall carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement and the Program Manual. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultan
ts’ services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Federation shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Federation and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect 
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Credit Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Federation shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Credit Agreement 
and the Program Manual, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
The Federation shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Federation of its 
obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Credit Agreement and the Program 
Manual.  
 
Section 2.05. The Federation shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition) in respect of Part A of the Project. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE III
 
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Federation shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
Upon the Associati
on’s request, the Federation shall: 
 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for the period 
indicated in the Association’s request, audited, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the date of the Association’s 
request: (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred 
to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year period as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association; and  
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the later of: the 
date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective; and the date 
when this Agreement has been executed by the parties hereto. 
 
Section 4.02. (a)  This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
the Federation thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the two following dates: 
Page  5
-
4
-
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify the Federation of this event. 
 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Federation: 
 
Federation Ministry of Finance 
 
Mehmeda Spahe 5 
 
71000
Sarajevo 
 
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
 
Facsimile: 
 
387 33 203 152 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Federation or 
by the Federation on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, 
may be taken or executed by its Minister of Finance, or by such other person or persons 
as the Federation shall designate in writing, and the Federation shall furnish to the 
Page  7
-
6
-
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the City of Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Dirk Reinermann   
Authorized Representative 
 
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA 
 
By /s/ Niko Lozancic  
Authorized Representative 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Implementation Program  
 
1. 
The Federation agrees that the Project Steering Board shall be responsible for 
overall supervision of the Project, and shall ensure that the Federation Minister of 
Education and Science shall participate actively and shall contribute effectively in the 
activities of the Project Steering Board for the entire duration of the Project. 
2. 
The Federation agrees that the secretariat established for purposes of the Project 
within the Sector for Education, Science, Culture and Sports within the State Ministry of 
Civil Affairs shall be responsible for: 
(a) 
facilitating and coordinating overall Project implementation, as well as 
managing the Secondary Education Grants program under Part A.1 and Part B.1 of the 
Project in accordance with the Program Manual and with the selection criteria, the 
procedures and upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Program Manual; 
(b) 
Project procurement and financial management in accordance with the 
Program Manual; and 
(c) 
on behalf of the Project Steering Board, monitoring and evaluating 
Project performance in accordance with indicators agreed with the Association and 
preparing progress implementation reports. 
 
3. 
In connection with the contracting of the procurement and financial management  
consultants to the Project Coordination Secretariat for the purposes mentioned in Section 
2
(b) of Schedule 4 of the Development Credit Agreement, the Federation agrees that it 
shall, from time to time, as and when may be required for Project purposes, enter into one 
or more consultants’ agreements, satisfactory to the Association, with such consultant(s) 
and shall obtain a written no-objection from the Association prior to the hiring or 
dismissal of any such consultant. 
 
4. 
The Federation agrees that the School Grants Evaluation Board and the School 
Grants Quality Assurance Team shall be maintained for the entire duration of the Project 
with suitably qualified personnel in sufficient numbers and with adequate funds, facilities 
and other resources required for the Project in a manner satisfactory to the Association 
and that they shall each fulfill their respective responsibilities under the Project in the 
manner contemplated in the Program Manual. 
 
5. 
The Federation shall adopt and thereafter maintain the Program Manual, and 
shall also maintain the Subsidiary Credit Agreement, in form and content satisfactory to 
the Association, and shall duly perform all its obligations under the Program Manual and 
the Subsidiary Credit Agreement and shall not take or concur in any action which would 
Page  10
-
9
-
have the effect of amending, assigning, abrogating or waiving the Program Manual or the 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement without obtaining the prior approval of the Association. 
6.  
(a) 
Each Secondary Education Grant shall be made by the Federation to a 
Beneficiary which meets the criteria set forth in the Program Manual in respect of the 
organization, management, staffing and other resources required for the efficient carrying 
out of the Sub-project. 
 
(b) 
The Federation shall cause the Beneficiary to: (i) carry out the Sub-
project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical and educational practices; and (ii) provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Sub-project. 
 
(c) 
Secondary Education Grants shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of the Program Manual and on terms whereby the Federation shall obtain, by 
written contract or other appropriate means, rights adequate to protect its interest and 
those of the Association, including the right to: 
 
(i) 
require the Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
educational, technical, economic and financial practices, to 
maintain adequate records, and to provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities and other resources required for the purpose; 
 
(ii) 
require that: (i) the goods 
and consultants’ services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in the Program Manual 
and in Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement; and 
(ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Sub-project; 
 
(iii) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods and 
the sites included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and 
any relevant records and documents; 
 
(iv) 
require that the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain such 
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be 
consistent with sound commercial practice, including such 
insurance to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the 
Beneficiary to repair or replace such goods; 
 
Page  11
-
10
 -
(v) 
obtain all such information as the Association, the Borrower or 
the Project Steering Board shall reasonably request relating to 
the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived 
from the Sub-project; and 
 
(vi) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Grant upon failure by such Beneficiary to 
perform its obligations under its contract with the Federation. 
 
