Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  05/05/2005 
Report No.:  AC1489
1. Project Statistics  
 
Country:  Bosnia-Herzegovina 
Project ID:  P079226 
Project Name:  Education Restructuring Project 
Task Team Leader:  Tobias Linden 
Estimated Appraisal Date: September 22, 
2003 
Estimated Board Date: June 14, 2005 
Managing Unit:  ECSHD 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Secondary education (50%);General education sector (35%);Central government 
administration (15%) 
Theme:  Education for the knowledge economy (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
10.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The overall project objectives are to: (a) increase participation in general and broad-based 
secondary education programs; and (b) improve the efficiency of education delivery, 
especially in secondary education.   
 
3. Project Description 
Component One: The Secondary Education Grants Program (approximately $ 5.00 
million) will provide grants to schools to: (a) facilitate the development and 
implementation of broad-based curricular programs and technical/professional curricular 
families for secondary education, and (b) enable certain schools to expand so that 
students who would otherwise attend three year courses are able to study revised four 
year programs or attend general education.  
 
Component Two: Education Finance and Management (approximately $2.5 million).  
This component will facilitate the design and implementation of more transparent 
formula-based financing mechanisms for publicly-provided general education.   
Page  2
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
This is a nationwide project but it does not have characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Specialists on the Team 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The Credit will be for technical assistance, goods and services.  Some minor 
refurbishment will be necessary.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
None.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
None.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Not applicable.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The key stakeholders are the Entity and Cantonal Ministries of Education, the State 
Ministry of Civil Affairs, the students and teachers, and the entire population of Bosnia 
and Herzegovina.  However, there are no safeguard issues.   
Page  3
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety 
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of 
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
No 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
No 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
No 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
No 
Page  4
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Tobias Linden 
04/12/2005 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Tobias Linden 
 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Tobias Linden 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Ronald N. Hoffer 
 
Comments:  This is a transferred project, therefore approval by the Safeguards Coordinator is not 
necessary. 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Maureen Anne McLaughlin 
04/12/2005 
Comments:   
