                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                   Report No: NCO00001012




                  NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION REPORT
                                  (IDA-40800)




                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.70 MILLION
                        (US$ 10.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO

                          BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                                    FOR THE

                   EDUCATION RESTRUCTURING PROJECT


                                  May 15, 2009




Human Development Sector Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective 04/30/2009)

                           Currency Unit = KM
                           KM 1.00 = US$ 0.69
                            US 1.00 = KM 1.44

                              FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 ­ December 31


                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BiH      Bosnia and Herzegovina
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CoE      Council of Europe
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DPA      Dayton Peace Accords
EC       European Commission
EDP      (World Bank ­ supported) Education Development Project
EMIS     Education Management Information System
EMSAC    (World Bank) Economic Management Structural Adjustment Credit
ERP      (World Bank) Education Restructuring Project
FBiH     Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
FY       Fiscal Year
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
IDA      International Development Association
MoCA     State Ministry of Civil Affairs
NCO      Note on Cancelled Operation
OECD     Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OSCE     Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
PA       Poverty Assessment
PCS      Project Coordination Secretariat
PHRD     Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PI       Pedagogical Institute
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RS       Republika Srpska
PSB      Project Steering Board
SIL      Specific Investment Loan
TA       Technical Assistance
VET      Vocational Education and Training


                       Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
                    Country Director: Jane Armitage
                     Sector Manager: Mamta Murthi
                Project Team Leader: Zorica Lesic
                  NCO Team Leader: Nino Kutateladze

                                               Bosnia and Herzegovina
                                        Education Restructuring Project



                                                         CONTENTS




Data Sheet


1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design.................................................. 1
2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation .............................................. 7
3. Assessment of Bank Performance ................................................................................ 10
4. Assessment of Borrower Performance.......................................................................... 12
5. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 12


Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 13
Annex 2. Borrower's Comments on Draft NCO .............................................................. 15
Annex 3. List of Supporting Documents ......................................................................... 17



Map ................................................................................................................................... 18

A. Basic Information

                        Bosnia and                                  Education
Country:                                     Project Name:
                        Herzegovina                                 Restructuring Project
Project ID:             P079226              L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-40800
NCO Date:               05/15/2009
                                                                    GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                  Borrower:              BOSNIA AND
                                                                    HERZEGOVINA
Original Total
                        XDR 6.7M             Disbursed Amount:      XDR 0.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Civil Affairs
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date           Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/11/2003   Effectiveness:                          04/12/2007
Appraisal:             09/22/2003   Closing:              03/31/2010        03/31/2010
Approval:              06/14/2005


C. Ratings Summary
Performance Rating by NCO
Outcomes:                                    Not Applicable
Risk to Development Outcome:                 Not Applicable
Bank Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                        Unsatisfactory



D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                           Original
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                            10
Secondary education                                          50
Sub-national government administration                       40


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                             50



                                             i

Education for the knowledge economy                          50


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                    At NCO                       At Approval
Vice President:         Shigeo Katsu                   Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:       Jane Armitage                  Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:         Mamta Murthi                   Maureen Anne McLaughlin
Project Team Leader:    Zorica Lesic                   Toby Linden
NCO Team Leader:        Nino Kutateladze
NCO Primary Author:



F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                          Actual
No.     Date ISR
        Archived               DO                     IP              Disbursements
                                                                      (USD millions)

  1     01/31/2006          Moderately
                          Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                 0.00

  2     06/07/2006        Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                 0.00
  3     12/04/2006     Highly Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory                 0.00

  4     06/07/2007          Moderately            Moderately
                          Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                  0.54

  5     02/14/2008     Highly Unsatisfactory  Highly Unsatisfactory             0.54
  6     04/01/2008        Unsatisfactory      Highly Unsatisfactory             0.54




                                            ii

1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country Background: During the first half of the 1990s (1992-95), Bosnia and
Herzegovina (BiH) experienced the most devastating violent conflict and collapse of its
economy altering the social and economic landscape of the country and causing
widespread economic damage. The economy plummeted to less then 20 percent of its
pre-war levels. In the aftermath of the war, with strong support from the international
community (IC), BiH had made impressive progress in post-war reconstruction and in
economic, social, and political integration. The country gained political stability and
security, and started moving toward membership in Euro-Atlantic structures. With the
adoption of sound fiscal and economic policies since 1995, the level of GDP tripled, the
banking sector was successfully privatized, a liberal trade policy was implemented, a
significant fiscal adjustment was achieved, the first successful reforms were implemented
in the social sectors and improvements were made in public finance across the board.
Despite important progress, at the time of appraisal, many challenges remained ahead for
BiH. Consolidated public expenditure consumed 54 percent of GDP, and the recorded
current account deficit stood at a very high 19 percent. Early attempts at privatization had
resulted in diluted ownership and weak governance of the reforms. The implementation
of the BiH's reform agenda also had to overcome intricate political and institutional
circumstances resulting from the Dayton Peace Accords (DPA). The multilayer
government structure, while necessary to achieve peace in 1995, had proven to be
complex, expensive and cumbersome for decision making, inefficient in terms of service
delivery, and in many areas incompatible with EU structures.

Sector Background: At the time of the project appraisal, the education system of Bosnia
and Herzegovina faced multiple challenges.

The education system, teaching methods and curricula were designed to produce
employees trained for defined jobs in a command economy rather than young people with
skills and competencies in demand in an evolving private sector labor market. More than
40 percent of secondary students in BiH continued to enroll in courses focusing on
hundreds of narrow specializations, for most of which there were few jobs.

A highly complex education governance and management structure posed additional
challenges for reforms. The constitutional competences for education in BiH were vested
at the level of the entity of Republika Srpska (RS) and 10 cantons in the Federation of
BiH, with an unclear coordination role at the State level by the Ministry of Civil Affairs
(MoCA).

BiH's education system, reflecting a mixture of systems inherited from the pre-war
Yugoslavia and a highly decentralized policy and institutional framework established
after the war, was characterized by high unit costs, mounting arrears, poor outcomes and
highly inequitable service provision. Inefficiencies were particularly striking at the
secondary and tertiary levels with high unit costs and low completion rates. Only 73
percent of the 15-18 age groups were enrolled in secondary education according to the

                                             1

Poverty Assessment (PA) (Report No: 25343-BiH). Much of the inefficiency in tertiary
education was driven by extremely low graduation rates. Most universities consisted of a
loose association of legally independent Faculties. This institutional fragmentation also
contributed to an inefficient use of scarce public resources. Moreover, BiH's heavily
tracked secondary education system (the poor tend to be tracked into occupational
programs with no access to tertiary education) further limited access of the poor to
tertiary education.

The Education Restructuring Project (ERP) was prepared in 2003/2004 to address these
weaknesses in the general education system. It supported three overarching objectives of
the BH's Medium Term Development Strategy that were also the basis for the CAS for
FY05-07. These objectives were: (i) creating conditions for sustainable and balanced
economic development, (ii) reducing poverty by one fifth and (iii) accelerating EU
integration. The CAS identified structural reforms both in the secondary and higher
education as of particular priority in the creation of human capital needed for economic
growth and eventual European accession. It should be noted that the original project, as
reflected in the CAS, included higher education reform as well. However, the inclusion of
a higher education component into the project was not possible in the end because the
State Parliament failed to pass a Higher Education Framework Law in 2004, which would
have provided an enabling legal and constitutional framework needed for the reform of
higher education. Therefore, the tertiary education elements of the project had been
largely dropped, in order to support reforms in secondary education. The credit size had
also been reduced from US$12 million to US$ 10 million as a result of that change.

The project was consistent with the broadly consultative initiative lead by the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) to develop an education
reform strategy in the fall 2002. The PRSP had identified the reform of the education
sector as one of its key instruments for addressing poverty issues. Some of the key policy
reforms endorsed by the government as part of the PRSP process included (i)
restructuring of secondary education aimed at increasing the number of students
attending and completing four year general and broad-based programs; (ii) shifting
responsibility for funding tertiary education away from the cantons in the Federation of
BiH to the Entity or State level and the re-structuring of tertiary finance in both entities
on the basis of a per student funding model; (iii) transferring the legal status of tertiary
education institutions from individual faculties to the university as a single legal entity;
and (iv) a restructuring of general education financing in BiH's 12 funding districts on
the basis of transparent per student funding formula.

Rationale for Bank Assistance: The project was designed to trigger systemic reforms in
the education system of BiH by improving public finance and strengthening institutions
through its focus on innovative funding mechanisms and building capacity to manage
education financing more effectively. The project was to promote sustainable private
sector-led growth through more relevant educational programs in secondary education
and increasing the human capital base. Lastly, the project was to provide grants to
schools for more equitable allocation of public funding for education and for promotion
of inter-constituent group collaboration and cooperation.



                                             2

The comparative advantage of the Bank was its ability to view education in terms of
interaction between poverty and economic issues in the context of the PRSP and the
preparation of EMSAC. At the time of appraisal, no other international agency was
providing direct support to the implementation of reforms in general education finance or
in general secondary education. Thus, the project intended to support an integrated
approach for systemic education sector reforms that would fundamentally change how
the system was financed and delivered.

The Bank had an additional comparative advantage in BiH. The successful
implementation of the Bank supported Education Development Project (EDP)
(effectiveness date 10/16/2000 ­ closing date 12/31/2004) had shown that effective
reform was possible even under difficult political and institutional setting.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved):

The project development objectives (PDO) were (a) to increase participation in general
and broad-based secondary education programs; and (b) to improve the efficiency of
education delivery, especially in secondary education.

The key performance outcome indicators were as follows:

     Share of secondary enrollment in general or broad-based four ­year vocational
        programs increases from 68% in the Federation and 73% in the RS in September
        2003 (baseline) to 90 percent in each Entity by September 2008; and,
     Number of Ministries of Education implementing a transparent student funding
        formula for primary and secondary education.

1.3 Original Components (as approved):

The project lending instrument was a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) designed for a four
year period. The project consisted of three components, as follows:

Component 1. The Secondary education Grants Program: Original base cost: US$5.0
million. The component was designed to promote decentralization and empowerment of
local institutions by providing direct financial support to schools via a grant mechanism
to respond to the complexities of the political fragmentation in the Federation of BiH
(FBIH). The objective of this component was to promote improved relevance, as well as
increased attainment for those students who might otherwise have left their formal
education or not aspired to tertiary level education.

The component aimed to finance grants to schools to (a) facilitate the development and
implementation of broad-based curricula programs and technical/professional curricula
for secondary education (including teacher training, materials and assessment
instruments), and (b) enable certain schools to expand so that students who would
otherwise attend three year courses are able to study revised four year programs or attend
general education schools. Individual grant size was estimated not to exceed US$20,000
per school.

                                              3

Component 2: Education Finance and Management: Original base cost: US$4.0
million. The objective of this component was to increase efficiency and performance
monitoring of education finance and management through improved budget formulation
and management of resources against set goals.

The component aimed to finance provision of technical assistance, software and related
equipment, and training for the design and implementation of a more transparent
formula-based financing mechanism for publicly provided general education, for the
extension of education management information system (to include a module on pre-
school education), and for BiH's participation in international assessments of student
learning achievement. The component also envisaged providing technical assistance and
training to implement the shift in public funding of tertiary education away from the
cantons to the state level subject to adopting the appropriate legislation.

Component 3: Project Implementation: Original base cost: US$1.0 million. The
objective of this subcomponent was to support project implementation by financing
consultant services and operating costs including travel and training for the Project
Steering Board (PSB), Project Coordination Secretariat (PCS), School Grants Evaluation
Board, and School Grants Quality Assurance Team.

1.4 Project Preparation/Design:

The project was the fourth Bank-financed investment project in the education sector of
BiH. It was intended to tackle existing issues both at the general secondary and tertiary
education levels and its design was based on the discussions with BiH stakeholders, and
on a number of policy, strategy and analytical papers produced by the government and by
the international community. Policy reform in education was also being supported by the
Economic Management Structural Adjustment Credit (EMSAC) (Credit No. 3925-BA),
which was under preparation at the same time. The project, which at the time included
both higher and secondary education components, was initially negotiated in March 23-
25, 2004 and the Board presentation was expected in May 2004. Although, the initial
reception from the government made it possible to believe that there was sufficient
commitment to the proposed reforms in higher education, in fact the political resistance
to the passage of the controversial law on higher education was very high. The above law
provided for establishing a unified system of higher education funding in the Federation
of BiH and re-structuring of tertiary finance in both entities on the basis of per capita
financing model. BiH accommodated co-existence of two essentially different models of
financing of higher education: the centralized model in RS and the decentralized and
fragmented one in the Federation, where all major powers were vested at the cantonal
level. The proposed finance reform for the Federation entailed reassigning of
responsibilities for higher education finance from cantonal Ministries of Education either
to the entity Ministry of Education or to the State level. Considering the above, there
were different positions for finance reform among the education authorities in the two
entities and it became impossible to reach consensus on the level at which public
financing of higher education should have been regulated, state or entity. Therefore, the
Parliament failed to adopt the State Framework Law for Higher education before the set
deadline, a condition for ERP presentation to the Board, as well as conditionality for the

                                              4

first tranche of the Economic Management Structural Adjustment Credit. Due to the lack
of political consensus around the proposed higher education reform in BiH, the project
was not presented to the Board in May 2004, as originally planned.

In the course of the following year, the Bank renewed its engagement around the ERP to
allow the Government to proceed with the agreed secondary education reform without
waiting for the adoption of the Higher Education Framework Law, the resistance for
which remained high. The project was modified to largely exclude the support to the
tertiary education component except for some resources reserved to provide technical
assistance for these reforms thereby reducing the original credit size from US$12 million
to US$10 million. Changes were also made to the project implementation arrangements.
It was decided to have the State Ministry of Civil Affairs serve as the Project
Coordination Secretariat (PCS) as opposed to the initial design of Project Implementation
Units in each entity. The Government accepted the Bank's emphasis to promote
integration of the project implementation units into the line ministries. This arrangement
was different from the one under the EDP where the project was managed through two
PIUs in each political entity (RS and the FBiH).

The implementation of ERP was expected to be carried out with the following
arrangements: (i) a Project Steering Board, which would consist of all ministries of the
education (cantons, the RS and Federation Entities, and the MoCA) to oversee the project
implementation; (ii) a School Grants Quality Assurance Team (with representation from
the RS and each cantonal ministry of education) to ensure integration of the grants
program into ministry strategies for secondary education; and, (iii) a School Grants
Evaluation Board (consisting of technical experts appointed from each Entity) to evaluate
schools' grant proposals .

A key element of the project design was to be a grants mechanism in order to promote
decentralization and empowerment of local institutions and as a response to the political
fragmentation in the Federation of BiH which does not lend itself to centrally-managed
initiatives. This implementation approach took into consideration the successful
implementation of similar mechanisms in EDP. However, the QER panel for the project
had questioned the heavy reliance on a grants mechanism to support systemic change and
curricula reform since the tradition in Bank funded projects had been to use these type of
funds to support improvement in quality or to promote introduction of innovations at the
school level but not so much for the promotion of systemic changes. Likewise, the QER
had recommended to bring in an element of top down consensus in the form of pre-
identified curricula and to put more emphasis on strengthening local institutions in order
to promote sustainability. Based on the above recommendation, some changes and
improvements were introduced into the project design to strengthen the link between the
grant fund and existing institutions (RS and cantonal ministries of education and
Pedagogical Institutes) and to link curricula development under the Secondary Education
Grants Program to the broad curricula families. However, individual grants to schools
remained as the main mechanism for promoting systemic changes under the project.

ERP was re-negotiated on April 26 ­ 28, 2005 and was approved by the Board on June 14,
2005.


                                             5

1.5 Critical risks and possible controversial aspects of the project:

A number of risks were identified during project preparation and explained in the ERP
Project Appraisal Document. The main risks and mitigation measures as originally
identified were:
                Risks                   Risk Mitigation Measures       Risk Rating
                                                                      with Mitigation
To project development objective
Lack of local capacity for reform    Project funding is aimed at            H
implementation. New legislation      capacity building for reform
requires project implementation      implementation; this was not
functions to be performed by         possible during project
ministries, but most education       preparation. Fiduciary functions
ministries do not have these skills. will be undertaken by
                                     consultants.
Assignment of responsibilities       Recommendations from EC                M
within education sector changes      report are modest, and
significantly.                       engagement in public debate
                                     should ensure measured
                                     approaches are taken.
Public finances are further          The project will help education        M
squeezed, which forces not-          ministers with strategic
strategic cuts in programs.          financing. Links to development
                                     policy lending can promote
                                     effective methodologies for
                                     carrying out necessary cuts.
To component results
Secondary Education Grants           The grant mechanism provides           M
Program-Inability of traditional     an incentive to innovate;
system to develop, and resistance    technical assistance outreach
to implementing new programs.        will assist schools to develop
                                     programs; engagement of
                                     Ministries in Working Group
                                     will encourage sharing of ideas.
General Education Finance-Lack       Cantons will be involved in            M
of political will to implement       design and receive training for
funding formula in all 10 cantons    implementation; the Project
and RS.                              Steering Board and a finance
                                     working group with
                                     representation from each
                                     ministry will promote peer
                                     support.




                                             6

The Project's risk assessment, as outlined in the PAD's table of critical risks failed to
highlight two of the critical risks, which among other exogenous factors affected the
project implementation in the end: (i) lack of capacity of the implementing agency at the
state level for reform implementation, including ensuring coordination among the entity
and cantonal level ministries of education in the complex institutional set up and (ii) the
compatibility of the selected design for the Secondary Education Grants component
(individual grants to schools) for building the needed ownership and support at the
cantonal ministries of education. As a result, overall, the Project's risk assessment was
underestimated.


2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation

BiH has complex governance and management arrangements, as a result of the
constitutional agreements reached at the end of the war in 1995.

At the State level, the Ministry of Civil Affairs (MoCA), which has an education unit, is
responsible for the overall coordination of the education sector. The two entities (RS and
the Federation) have different institutional structure. In the RS, education responsibility is
centralized at the Entity level, while in the Federation the responsibility lies with the
cantons (the cantons vary in size between 500,000 and 35,000 citizens; 95,000 and 4, 300
students). These cantons are responsible for financing and management of all levels of
education in their respective jurisdictions. Adding to this complexity is the fact that the
Federation Ministry of Education and Science is responsible for coordination of the
education sector within the Federation.

Therefore, the extent to which MoCA, the responsible agency for ERP implementation,
could successfully promote education reforms across the state was contingent upon its
capacity as well as strong commitment to build consensus between the two entities (and
in the case of Federation, among all cantons responsible for education).

Delays in DCA Signing and Project Effectiveness

The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and corresponding Project Agreements (PA)
were signed on June 12, 2006. A year long delay in signing of the DCA by the
Government was due to the political problems in the RS (change of the Government and
a long period of non-existing Government) and then subsequent delays following the
national elections in the formation of governments at all levels.

A political vacuum leading up to and after the national elections in October 2006 heavily
affected the government's commitment to the project and caused further serious delays in
fulfilling the project effectiveness conditions in the aftermath of credit signing. The
project effectiveness deadline was extended two times. The original effectiveness
deadline was set for September 12, 2006. The Government requested a 90 day extension
due to the ongoing ratification process for Development Credit Agreement between
Bosnia and Herzegovina and International Development Association (IDA) for the
Education Restructuring Project, as well as signing of Subsidiary Credit Agreements.
Subsequently the effectiveness deadline was extended by three months until December


                                              7

12, 2006. Due to a slow process of establishing new legislature and executive bodies
following the general elections in the country in early October 2007 and still pending the
completion of ratification procedure and the provision of legal opinions, a second
effectiveness extension was granted until April 12, 2007. The Credit ratification was
completed on April 11, 2007 and the project was finally declared effective on April 12,
2007.

The political hiatus described above affected not only ERP but also other projects in the
Bank's portfolio in BiH. The overall Government's ownership of the reform agenda
proved to be week. The global economy entered a period of robust expansion, the
pressure to secure external funds eased. Furthermore, the VAT revenue surge in 2006
further reduced the appetite, to pursue, tough, although much needed reforms. As a result,
in December 2006, the second tranche of EMSAC and the Second Social Sector
Adjustment Credit (SOSAC II) operations (a total of US$75 million) were cancelled.

Project Implementation: April -December 2007

The implementation of ERP was heavily affected by three key factors: (i) loss of
momentum produced by a significant effectiveness delay was threatening the likelihood
of achieving the Project Development Objectives; (ii) changes in the government after
October 2006 elections weakened political commitment for the project. There was no
longer support and ownership of the activities proposed under ERP from the new
leadership and it appeared that Ministries of Education did not want to pursue the project;
and (iii) the project implementation arrangements were not conducive to effective
implementation due the weak implementation capacity at the Ministry of Civil Affairs
(MoCA) and complex institutional set up in BiH.

The above circumstances clearly indicated the need for building better understanding and
ownership at all levels of the government (State, Entity, Cantons). Indeed, in order to
align the project with the current priorities of the ministries of education and make up for
the long delay, the Bank proposed several changes to the project design. The following
options were proposed: (i) re-designing of the secondary education grant component to
allow cantonal ministries to play a greater role and to build their capacity for strategic
reform; (ii) allowing the project to move forward with those cantons willing to do so, but
not requiring all cantons to move together or the participation of the RS; and (iii)
adjusting the existing project implementation arrangements. However, the discussions
around accelerating implementation through adapting the project design did not translate
into tangible results.

Suspension

Following Board approval none of the project activities were launched and respectively,
no progress was made towards the two Project Development Objective indicators. The
efforts made by the Bank in attempting to find acceptable ways to move the project
forward, including efforts to address the project's implementation problems discussed
above, did not translate into concrete outcomes. The Borrower had failed to adhere to
several provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, namely to maintain the Project
Coordination Secretariat in MoCA with adequate resources, staff and facilities for the

                                              8

performance of their respective responsibilities and obligations. There were no staff
appointed by the Ministry of Civil Affairs to the Project Coordination Secretariat and the
contracts for the consultants responsible for procurement and financial management
lapsed on October 31, 2008. Moreover, following late 2007 meeting of the Project
Steering Board, the Bank was informed about the lack of support for ERP by the Ministry
of Civil Affairs. As a result, the Bank was forced to suspend the project disbursements on
January 21, 2008. Per the Bank's Suspension of Disbursements Notice dated January 24,
2008, the Borrower was given 60 days to respond to the suspension.

Attempts at Restructuring: January ­ July 2008

Final efforts to reinvigorate the process to allow the ERP to move forward did not
succeed despite major efforts undertaken to restructure the project during the critical
suspension period.

During this time, the Bank team worked closely with the Borrower to restructure the
project. Thanks to these efforts, on March 20, 2008, the Chairman of the Council of
Ministers wrote to the Bank indicating his government's commitment to the original PDO
but proposing a new set of activities to achieve it. The proposed changes envisaged
expanding the activities under the Education Finance and Management Component,
which addressed strategic planning, program budgeting and the education information
network and replacing the School Grants Component by a new component on
professional development for secondary school directors. Intensive work had been
undertaken by the technical staff of the respective line ministries in order to restructure
the project and to align it to the current priorities in the education sector. The proposed
changes, although significant in nature, would not affect the Project Development
Objectives. Therefore, this was to be a second order restructuring to be approved by RVP.
The revised project description and the composition of the project implementation team
were endorsed by the Conference of Ministers of Education in BiH in March 2008.
However, an agreement on the location of the Project Implementation Unit was not
reached. The resolution of the politically charged PIU location issue was seen by the
Bank team as the litmus test of the government's commitment to reform this project. This
issue caused a further delay and the project restructuring was not completed by June 30,
2008, which was the agreed deadline for this activity.

Cancellation

In an effort to provide yet another opportunity to the Borrower to finalize the
restructuring process, on July 18, 2008, the Bank sent a letter to the Borrower requesting
confirmation of the project implementation arrangements by September 15, 2008.
However, the latest implementation arrangements presented by the Government in
September 2008, proposing to have a project team that would move physically between
the two entities every six months, were judged as inappropriate by the Bank and a sign of
lack of ownership and commitment to reform the project. Taking into account lack of
progress since project approval in June, 2005 and the diminished support for ERP from
government authorities, the decision to cancel the credit was made by the Bank on
October 29, 2008. As no activities were implemented under the project and no
disbursements had taken place, the entire credit was cancelled.

                                              9

In sum, ERP faced difficulties almost at each stage of its preparation and implementation.
The key reasons that had contributed to the failure of the project were:

     The link of the project to controversial higher education reforms, namely to the
        adoption of the State Higher Education Framework Law, affected the initial
        project preparation and resulted in the withdrawal of the project from the Board
        presentation. This initial link to reforms of higher education, around which there
        was limited consensus among the government authorities at different levels,
        significantly undermined overall support and ownership for ERP even after the
        higher education part had been largely dropped and the project was converted into
        a primarily secondary education project.
     A fluid political situation prior to and after national elections in October 2006 and
        subsequent delays in the formation of new government at all levels caused
        substantial credit effectiveness delays threatening the likelihood of achieving the
        project development objectives.
     Change of political leadership in the aftermath of national elections resulted in the
        reduced political support for ERP and lack of ownership for the project among the
        government authorities.
     Both weak capacity and limited mandate of the Ministry of Civil Affairs made it
        difficult to build the needed political consensus for the project in the complex
        institutional and political setting.
     The implementation arrangements were clearly not conducive to effective
        implementation of this project given the highly fragmented education system in
        BiH.


3. Assessment of Bank Performance

(a) Quality at entry (i.e., performance through lending phase):
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Identification: The identification process focused on critical needs and issues in the
secondary and tertiary education of the BiH, which were important for poverty alleviation
and competitiveness. The project's consistency with the Government's PRSP and
consensus built among professionals and stakeholders around the reform agenda was
assured. In addition, the Beneficiary Assessment for the Secondary and Higher Education
Reform was commissioned in July 2003 as part of the PHRD grant.

Preparation: The preparation period for ERP can be divided into two phases: (i) 2002 ­
2004, and, (ii) April 2005 ­ June 2005.

2002 ­ 2004

At this stage of project preparation, despite professional and stakeholder consensus on the
proposed reforms, the Bank might have overestimated the level of Borrower commitment
to push for the passage of the controversial higher education law in the context of strong
political and institutional resistance by the political leaders. Secondly, the decision to link
                                              10

adoption of the controversial law to Board presentation conditionalities under investment
lending was a mistake whereas more flexibility through focusing on changes in higher
education institutions could have led to better results in advancing the higher education
reform agenda as part of the project.

April 2005 ­ June 2005

The Bank renewed its engagement with the Borrower and the project design was
modified taking into account lack of political consensus around the higher education
reforms. Consequently, ERP was converted into a primarily secondary education project
in order to allow the Government to proceed with the agreed secondary education reform
without waiting for the adoption of the Higher Education Law.

Several weaknesses can be identified in the final project design, such as the choice of a
grant scheme to schools under the Secondary education Component of the project. This
project was intended to promote systemic reforms through curricula modifications and a
shift to four year secondary education programs. However, in the BiH context, without
strong support and approval of relevant ministries, schools do not have sufficient
autonomy to achieve systemic changes. Secondly, the decision to have the State Ministry
of Civil Affairs serve as the Project Coordination Secretariat may not be the best option
for sound implementation given that MoCA did not have sufficient capacity for the
coordination of the large scale reform as demonstrated throughout the project cycle.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguard polices):
Rating: Satisfactory

The task team was in the field, therefore had opportunity for daily interactions with all
relevant education stakeholders. The team was proactive in trying to come up with
alternative solutions.

The Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs) realistically rated the performance
of the project (the Project had been rated Unsatisfactory since February 2006 and Highly
Unsatisfactory since December 2006) and alerted management to problems and risks
related to project execution and proposed remedies in the timely manner. The available
documentation indicates that the team made every attempt (a series of visits, discussions
and workshops with cantonal and entity ministries of education) to ensure greater
understanding and ownership by all levels of government to make up for the loss of
momentum produced by a long effectiveness delay. The Bank team was proactively
thinking about options for project design modifications in order to move the project
forward and proposed several options to the government, as discussed elsewhere. The
team was also responsive to the new government's ideas about specific project activities
and attempted restructuring of the project. Efforts made by the Bank team to advance the
project implementation were also confirmed in meetings with education stakeholders at
all levels, although these efforts did not prove sufficient in gaining sufficient political
support for the project implementation.




                                            11

(c) Justification of Rating for overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Based on the Bank performance during the lending and supervision phases the overall
Bank Performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

4. Assessment of Borrower Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory

There were significant shortcomings in the government's performance in the aftermath of
Board approval. The delay in project effectiveness and the failure to advance project
implementation following project effectiveness as described above point to limited
government ownership and commitment. The lack of ownership by all education
authorities is evidenced by the inability of the Conference of Ministers of Education to
reach an acceptable decision on the location of the Project Implementation Unit, which
impaired the project restructuring efforts. MoCA had a major challenge to build
consensus between the various parties involved in the project, and in the end, given its
limited mandate, MoCA was not successful in resolving the stalemate which had
occurred. The shortcomings demonstrated by MoCA during project implementation are
not limited to its mandate for education but also to capacity constraints. Not only did
MoCA not have any power to implement an ambitious reform agenda having only a
coordination role for education with powers and responsibilities vested in the RS and
Cantonal level education authorities, its capacity for management and coordination of the
project was weak. As evidenced in the project documentation, MoCA was not able to
maintain the Project Coordination Secretariat (PCS) staffed and operational that could
facilitate project implementation.

Therefore, on the basis of this evidence, the performance of the Borrower is rated as
Unsatisfactory.

5. Lessons Learned

     Excellence in technical analysis is not sufficient to counterbalance the political
        cost of implementing unpopular reforms, unless there is a strong local ownership
        of the reform agenda.
     Linking conditionality to Board presentation under investment operations may not
        be the best vehicles for triggering reforms, such as the adoption of the
        controversial higher education law, something which can be more effectively
        accomplished under DPLs.
     Implementation arrangements need to be more tailored to the country
        environment to be more conducive to sound implementation, particularly in
        countries such as BiH with its internal institutional complexities.




                                            12

Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                         Title                        Unit
Lending
James A. Stevens            Team Leader (until April 2004)          ECSHD

Toby Linden               SR. Education Specialist and Team
                              Leader (as of April 2004)             ECSHD

Zorica Lesic                      Operations officer                ECSHD
Nick Burnett                          Consultant                    ECSHD
Jean-Paul Peresson          Secondary Education Specialist     French TF Consultant
Mark Walker                         Lead Counsel                    LEGEC
Nikola Kerleta                   Procurement Analyst                 ECSPS
Sanjay Vani                Sr. Financial Management Spec.            ECSPS
Edward Daoud                   Senior Finance Officer               LOAG1
Rosalind Levacic             Education Funding Specialist       PHRD Consultant
Clive Booth                   Tertiary Education Expert         PHRD Consultant
John Sizer                    Tertiary Education Expert         PHRD Consultant
Marek Kwiek                     Credit Transfer Expert          PHRD Consultant
Arthur Hauptman               Tertiary Education Expert         PHRD Consultant
Lejla Catic                       Research Analyst              PHRD Consultant

Supervision/NCO

Toby Linden            Sr. Education Specialist and Team Leader
                                   (until July 2008)                ECSHD

Zorica Lesic           Operations Officer and Team Leader (as
                                     of July 2008)                  ECSHD

Olav Rex Christensen       Senior Public Finance Specialist         HDNED
Nikola Kerleta                   Procurement Analyst                 ECSPS
Lamija Hadzagic            Financial Management Specialist           ECSPS
Danielle Malek                         Counsel                      LEGEM
Jasna Mestnik                      Finance Analyst                  LOADM
Jens Eric Pedersen                    Consultant                    ECSHD
Pasi J. E. Sahlberg               Sr Education Spec.                ECSHD
Sanjay N. Vani             Lead Financial Management Spec           OPCFM
Mark Walker                         Chief Counsel                   LEGAF
Nino Kutateladze                  Operations Analyst                ECSHD




                                       13

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                                              181.24
  FY04                                                              147.32
  FY05                                                               63.26
                            Total:                                  391.82

Supervision/NCO
  FY06                                                               64.73
  FY07                                                               90.39
  FY08                                                              172.48
  FY09                                                               13.30
                            Total:                                  340.90




                                        14

Annex 2. Borrower's Comments on Draft NCO




                                  15

16

Annex 3. List of Supporting Documents



   Appraisal Mission Aide ­ Memoire, Sept. 23 ­ Oct. 3, 2003.

   Beneficiary Assessment for Secondary and Higher Education Reform in Bosnia and
     Herzegovina, Preparation of the Education Restructuring Project, JTF 051893 (PHRD).

   Development Credit Agreement between Boznia and Herzegovina and IDA, June 12,
     2006.

   Draft Project Restructuring Paper for Bosnia and Herzegovina Education Restructuring
     Project, June 2008.

   ERP Cancellation Letter, Jane Armitage, Country Director (ECCU4) to H.E. Dragan
     Vrankic, Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH, October 29, 2008.

   ERP Letter on the Suspension of Project Disbursements, Elisabeth Huybens, Acting
     Country Director (ECCU4) to H.E. Dragan Vrankic, Minister of Finance and Treasury of
     BiH, January 24, 2008.

   Initial Project Information Document (PID), June 14, 2003.

   International Development Association Country Assistance Strategy for Bosnia and
     Herzegovina, August 12, 2004.

   Minutes of Negotiations between Bosnnia and Herzegovina and IDA, April 29, 2005.

   Office Memorandum: Negotiations Package for ERP, Toby Linden, Task Team Leader
     (ECSHD) to Orsalia Kalantzopoulos, Country Director (ECCU4), April 18, 2005.

   Office Memorandum: Proposed Suspension of Disbursements for Bosnia and
     Herzegovina Education Restructuring Project, Elisabeth Huybens, Acting Director
     (ECCU4) to Shigeo Katsu, Regional Vice President for ECA, January 23, 2008.

   Office Memorandum: Note on the Cancellation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Education
     Restructuring Project, Zorica Lesic, Operations Officer (ECSHD), to Jane Armitage,
     Acting Country Director ECCU4), October 29, 2008.

   Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the amount of SDR 6.70 Million
     (US$ 10.0 Million Equivalent) to Bosnia and Herzegovina for an Education Restructuring
     Project, May 18, 2005, Report No. 31840-BA.

   Project Implementation Status and Results Reports.

   Preparation Mission Aide-Memoire, May 5-16, 2003.




                                           17

                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 33375R


                                                         BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                                                             SELECTED TOWNS                                                                    MAIN ROADS

                                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                  RAILROADS

                                                             MAIN RIVERS                                                                       DAYTON AGREEMENT LINES

                                                                                                                                               MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES

   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
   shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
   endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.



                                                             To Zagreb
                    16°E                                                   17°E       To Bjelovar                         18°E                                          19°E
                                                                                                                                                  To Osijek
                                                                                                 CROATIA

  To                                                            Una
Karlovac                                                              Bosanska Gradiska
                                                                                                                           Bosanski Brod
                                              Bosanska Novi             (Srp. Gradiska)
                                                                                                                  Sava       (Srp.Brod)
                                              (Novi Grad)                                                                                                                                      To Belgrade
45°N               Cazin                                        Prijedor                            Vbras       Derventa
                                                                                                                Derventa             Bosna                                                                       45°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sava

                                Bosanska
                 Bihac´           Krupa                                                                                                                      Brcko
                                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                Banja
                                             Sanski Most                        Luka                                                                                       Bijeljina               To Belgrade
      To
  Sveti Rok            Una                                        Sana                                                                  Gracanica
                                                                                                                                                                                       Drina


                                       Bosanski                                                  Kotor Varos
                                                                                                         Varos
                                                                                                            
                                       Petrovac                                                                 Teslic´
                                                                                                                Teslic                                                                           SERBIA
                                                                      Kljuc                                                         Maglaj                Tuzla
                                                                                                                                                          Tuzla
                                                                              REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
 CROATIA                                                                                                   ^
                                                                                                  Vlasic´ Mts.                                                 Spreca
 To Medak                                   Drvar
                                            Drvar                                                                                       Krivaja                                                    To Valjevo
                                                                                           Jajce
                                        D                                                                   Travnik
                                                                                                            Travnik
To Obrovac                                                                                                           Zenica
                                             i                                                                                                       Kladanj

                                                                                            Vrbas                                              Vares
                                                                                                                                               Vares          Vlasenica
                                                n                                                                          Bosna
                                                     a                                                                                                                                Srebrenica
                                                                                                    Bugojno
44°N                                                                                                                                  Visoko
                                                                                                                                      Visoko                      REPUBLIKA
                                                          r                                                                                                                                 Drina                44°N

                                                              i                              FEDERATION OF                                                           SRPSKA
                                                                                                                                                                                                              To Kraljevo
    To                                                                                                                              SARAJEVO
  Zadar                                                           c                             BOSNIA AND
                                                                       Livno                  HERZEGOVINA^                                                  Pale
                                                                                                                                                                                Visegrad
                                                                                                                                                                                Visegrad
                                                                         A                                       Jablanicko
                                                                                                                    jezero
                                                                             l                         Jablanica                                                  Gorazde
                                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                p                                          Konjic                                                              Lim
                                                                                                                                                                                                           To Sjenica
                                                                                    s                                         Neretva                      Foca
                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                         (Srbinje)



                                                                                                              Mostar




                                                                                                                                                  Gacko                                Tara


                                                                                                                    Stolac                                            Piva

43°N                                                                                                                                                                                                             43°N


                                                                                                                                            Bileca
                                                                                                                                                ´                          MONTENEGRO

                                                                                                                                      Trebinje
                                                                                                                                      Trebinje

                                                                                                                                                                      To Podgorica

              BOSNIA and
          HERZEGOVINA                                                        Adriatic                           Sea
                                                                                                                                                    To Shkodër



                                                                                     0     10    20      30   40   50 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ALBANIA
                                                                                     0         10         20      30 Miles


                 16°E                                                      17°E                                            18°E                                             19°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                              JULY 2006

