Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15283
IIPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FIFTH OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2627-IVC)
JANUARY 4, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFA franc)a/
CFA franc 285   US$1.00
AVERAGE ANNUAL EXCHANGE RATES
Year   CFA franc  US$
1986       380        1.00
1987       325        1.00
1988       312        1.00
1989       295        1.00
1990       280        1.00
1991       275        1.00
1992       285        1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEARS
Government: January I - December 31
PALMINDUSTRIE: October I - September 30
Project: October I - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNDA            Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Agricole (National Bank for Agricultural Development)
BSIE            Budget Special d'Investissements et Equipement (Special Budgetfor Investments and Equipment)
CAA             Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CFD             Caisse Francaise de Developpement
CDC             Commonwealth Development Corporation
CIDT            Compagnie Ivorienne pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles (Ivorian Companyfor the
Development of Textiles)
CSSPA           Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Produits Agricoles
DCGTx           Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux (Directorate for Control of Major Works)
EIB             European Investment Bank
EPIC            Etablissements Publics a Caractere Industriel et Commercial
FED             Fond Europeen de Developpement (European Development Fund)
FER             Fonds d'Extension et de Renouvellement (Renewing Extension Fund)
FFB             Fresh Fruit Bunches of Oil Palm
IRHO            Institut de Recherche des Huiles et des Oleagineux (Institutefor the Research of Oils and Fats)
SAPH            Societe Africaine des Plantations d'Hev&as (African Society of Plantation)
SEM             Societe d'Economie Mixte (Mixed Economic Society)
SODEFOR         Societe pour le Developpement des Plantations Forestieres (Societyfor the Development of Forest Plantations
SODEPALM        Societe pour le Developpement et l'Exploitation du Palmier a Huile (Societyfor the Exploitation and
Development of Palm Oil)
a/ The exchange rate for the CFA franc is fixed at a ratio ot I 00 I with the French franc, which is a free floating currency



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page
Preface
Evaluation Summary ..................................i
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment ..................................1
1.              Introduction .............................................................                                                                      1
2.               Project Objectives .............................................................                                                               2
3.               Achievement of Objectives .........................................                                           ....................   3
4.               Implementation Experience .............................................................                                                        5
5.               Project Costs  . nd  Financing .............................................................                                                   7
6.               Sustainability .............................................................                                                                   8
7.  Bank Performance.                                                                                                                                           9
8.  Borrower Performance.                                                                                                                                       9
9.  Assessment of Outcome .10
10.  Future Operation .10
I1.  Key Lessons Learned .10
Part II: Statistical Annexes ...............................................                                                                                  12
Table 1.  Summary of Assessments ................................................                                                                             12
Table 2.  Related Bank Loans/Credits ................................................                                                                         14
Table 3.  Project Timetable ................................................                                                                                   14
Table 4.    Loan  Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated  and  Actual ...............................................     15
Table  5.    Key  Indicators for Project Implementation  and  Operations ............................................... 16
Table 6.  Studies Included in Project ...............................................                                                                          17
Table 7A. Project Costs ...............................................                      .                                                                18
Table 7B. Project Financing ...............................................                                                                                   19
Table 8.  Economic Costs and Benefits ................................................                                                                        19
Table 9.  Status of Legal Covenants ................................................                                                                          20
Table 10. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ...............................................                                                       21
Table 11. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...............................................                                                                        21
Table 12. Bank Resources: Missions ...............................................                                                                            22
Appendices: A. Borrower's Comments on the ICR
B. Financial Performance
C. Map No. IBRD 27683
This docurment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wi,hout World Bank authorization.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FIFTH OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2627-IVC)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fifth Oil Palm Project in
C6te d'lvoire, for which Loan 2627-IVC in the amount of US$13.4 million was approved on
October 22, 1985 and made effective oni July 7, 1986.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1994 as scheduled and an undisbursed balance of
US$1.1 million equivalent was canceled. Final disbursement took place on September 17, 1992.
The ICR was prcpared by Mr. Anton M. Rychener, Consultant, and reviewed by Messrs.
Claude Carlier, Tree Crop Specialist, Surjit Singh, Principal Operations Officer, and Mrs.
Cynthia C. Cook, Division Chief, Agriculture and Environment Division (AF4AE); and Mr.
Franz Kaps, Operations Adviser (AF4DR). The draft report was provided to the Borrower and
cofinanciers for comments.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission, November
1993. It is based on the material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation
of the ICR by presenting its views to the completion mission and its comments on the draft ICR
are provided in Appendix A.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FIFTH OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2627-IVC)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The 1986 Fifth Oil Palm Project was a follow-on to a series of four traditional plantation
projects that were financed jointly by the Government. the Bank and the French "Caisse Fran,aise de
Developpement" (CFD), and the British "Commonwealth Development Corporation" (CDC) in
support of PALMINDUSTRIE (previously SODEPALM), which was then C6te d'Ivoire's regional
development agency for the forest zone. The project was one of several nrojects aimed at inducing
agricultural growth coinciding with a structural adjustment program started in 1981 to restore macro-
economic stability and to provide the basis for growth for the agricultural sector. The main thrust of
the Bank's three Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs), from 1981 to 1986, was pricing and taxation
and parastatal reform. The measures included raising producer prices for cocoa and coffee to reverse
previous discrimination against agriculture. Although a favorable supply response was achieved, the
substantial drop in international commodity prices since 1986 made it increasingly difficult for the
government to augment prices particularly with the overvaluation of the CFA franc.
Project Objectives
2.    The major objective of the project was to increase the country's palm oil production to meet
the projected and rapidly increasing domestic demand for fats and oils and to diversify the country's
export revenue base. These goals were to be reached by replacing the aging plantations and
developing new plantings in smallholdings, and medium-sized and large industrial plantations.
PALMINDUSTRIE was expected to generate, over the 4-year implementation period of the planting
program, sufficient cash to cover up to 43 percent of total costs of operations, budgeted at US$185
rnillion. The Bank, the Caisse Francaise de Developpement (CFD), the Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC), the Fond Europeen de Developpement (FED), and the European Investment
Bank (EIB), each contributed US$13.4 million for project financing. The project also aimed at
consolidating two years of good financial performance and laying the foundation for privatization of
most of PALMINDUSTRIE's holdings. In an effort to strengthen the balance sheet, a series of
financial parameters were developed based on price projections for palm oil and its by-products as
well as exchange rate forecasts during project implementation. These parameters were intended to
serve as management and cost control tools for the vast operations of PALMINDUSTRIE - spanning
over 14 large estates and about 50,000 ha of smallholdings in the south of the country.



ii
3.    Achievement of Objectives. About six months after loan effectiveness, the oil palm planting
target of 64,700 ha was revisited in response to the drop in commodity prices and consequently more
pessimistic forecasts. It was reduced to 46,300 ha (i.e. by 28 percent overall with the industrial
plantation hectarage being cut by 42 percent). Although the revised planting targets were achieved
and, therefore, the objective of increasing palm oil production met at least through having created the
assets required, it coincided with a serious deterioration of PALMINDUSTRIE's finances which
meant that institutional objectives were not attained. A major restructuring of PALMINDUSTRIE's
finances and a divestiture of activities to private and other public institutions, is needed if its physical
and operational assests are to be maintained as financially viable operations.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Implementation of the planting program, both for smallholders and industrial plantations,
took place in the years 1986-90. The high production costs of PALMINDUSTRIE, mostly associated
with low labor productivity (of the planting and the harvesting/milling process) and high overhead
costs was a major concern, and the Bank consistently recommended measures to reduce costs so as to
be competitive on world markets. In spite of efforts made at improving the cost structure,
PALMTINDUSTRIE's costs continued to escalate in tandem with the over-valued CFA franc and
payment of support prices to smallholders during an extended period of extremely low export prices.
Fortunately, industrial planting targets were cut by 60 percent. However, smallholder development
was only marginally reduced and reached 92 percent of the original target. This was mainly because
the package handed-out by PALMINDUSTRIE was highly attractive to smallholders even though
actual prices of palm oil during project implementation never exceeded 50 percent of SAR
projections. PALM[NDUSTRIE, despite the technical assistance in financial management, was
unable to adjust to changed market conditions and virtually eroded all its capital.
5.    The downsizing of the industrial plantings by 60 percent was accompanied by a reduction in
the milling capacity. The target capacity of 80 tons/hr in two new mills was cut back and only 50
tons/hr capacity installed. Contractual problems delayed full commissioning of one of the mills. This
delay and earlier-than-expected fruiting of oil palm necessitated diversion of production to existing
mills with extra costs in transportation. Palm oil extraction rates for all of PALMINDUSTRIE's mills
averaged 21.5 percent versus the forecast of 20.7 percent. Facilities at the older mills have begun to
deteriorate and rehabilitation, especially of fruit reception areas, has to be undertaken soon to
maintaining and operating efficiencies and reduce production losses. The proposed effluent systems
for all mills were not installed as planned as the engineering study for a prototype was completed only
towards the end of the project. Nonetheless, the mills did have effluent traps which reduce the
pollutants in the waste-water but not to an acceptable purity level.



iii
6.    No evaluation has been done of the research activities supported by the project. Most of the
work initiated has been stopped because of a lack of funds. One hundred and eighty man-months of
Technical Assistance (TA) went into research. Technical, financial and plantation management TA
took up 366 man-months and may have made systems and practices work. But, it did not lead to
institutional capacity building. However, given the extensive operations of PALMINDUSTRIE and
their commercial and non-commercial nature very high-caliber management was required and was
possibly not available in the public sector. Nonetheless, the effectiveness of the TA itself was
severely diminished by the unfavorable macro-economic conditions which made PALM[NDUSTRIE
financially weak.
Sustainability
7.    The project activities both in terms of financing and management were clearly not sustainable
when the project ended. PALMINDUSTRIE was in a distressed financial situation. Its commercial
operations had been compromised by social and non-profit objectives. Rightly, the government has
chosen privatization as the route to solving these problems. After a study in 1994 it has decided to
split PALMINDUSTRIE into several packages which would be divested to the private sector. The
timing and mode of this process is currently being worked out.
Bank Performance
8.    Throughout project implementation, the Bank's Agricultural Unit in the Abidjan Resident
Mission supervised PALMINDUSTRIE closely. In fact supervision of financial performance was
most prevalent throughout implementation. The Bank recognized early on that recessionary pressures
in the C6te d'Ivoire would have a negative impact on consumption of palm oil. It correctly approved
a reduction in PALMINDUSTRIE's industrial planting program. It should have also urged the
Government to correspondingly reduce smallholder development. Government had neither the
political will, nor the requisite amount of cash, to undertake the painful measures recommended by
the Bank to resolve the problems besetting PALMINDUSTRIE. Continuous discussions were held
with Government about suggested remedies, including downward revision of the price of Fresh Fruit
Bunches of oil palm (FFB) to smallholders, reduction of public sector involvement in the micro-
management of the oil palm industry, and production and overhead cost reductions of
PALM[NDUSTRIE. Generally. the Bank executed its responsibilities well in extremely difficult
socio-political country circumstances.
Borrower Performance
9.    PALNI1NDUSTRIE is a parastatal and a regional development agency, and as a result,
government decision-makers rarely gave thought to its financial health. Apparently it was usually
assumed that it had cash reserves generated by the sale of palm oil. Thus, PALMINDUSTRIE's
management, which was appointed by the Government, had to execute orders no matter whether they
made financial sense. As a result, unpopular adjustment measures were not usually carried out. It
must be added that, even if Government had the political will to adjust mid-way to changing world



iv
market conditions, it would have lacked the financial resources to restore the palm oil sub-sector to
financial equilibrium. As for implementation of the technical aspects of the project, there was little
that raised any concern except that political considerations have in the past resulted in a certain
number of plantations being located in agro-climatically marginal zones for oil palm cultivation.
While compliance to covenants on technical and implementation aspects was satisfactory, it was quite
unsatisfactory in respect of government's obligations on funding, collection of loans and pricing of oil
palm fruits.
Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned
10.   The structural problems besetting PALNI4NDUSTRIE after project completion were not
substantially different from what they were in 1985 at the time of appraisal. Privatization is still
viewed as the solution to financial sustainability. The process to privatization and divestiture has been
set rolling and this includes the transfer to other institutions, existing services for agriculture
extension, infrastructure maintenance and credit. In the case of repayments on investment funds
advanced to smallholders and medium-size plantations, systems would need to be devised to make the
appropriate collections particularly in the case of the latter where these have hardly been made. The
lessons to be learned are as follows:
(a)   that support prices for producers during an extended period of low external market
prices for a commodity coupled with an over-valued currency are non-sustainable
even by the healthiest of economies and can have devastating consequences for
agencies responsible for bearing the cost of such support;
(b)   that sustainability of a government commercial organization is closely linked to a
favorable economic framework, appropriate pricing policies, and availability of
strong managerial and financial skills related to the size of its operations;
(c)   technical assistance personnel in charge of implementing project activities are
seldom able to devote time to building local capacity or be advocates of
major restructuring of the operation they manage; and
(d)    if no clear distinction is made between the social and profit-oriented operations
through government budgets, supporting social activities from profits can soon
become untenable.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FIFTH OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2627-IVC)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1.    Introduction
1.01  In the late sixties and the seventies demand for the principal export crops from African
countries was strong and the Government of Cote d'lvoire promoted the expansion of industrial and
smallholder plantations in forest or savannah areas. These areas had no secondary infrastructure
(roads, dispensaries, schools. housing) to acconmmodate the influx of laborers and smallholders.
Agencies that were created to be purely commercially oriented export crop enterprises, were also
entrusted with social infrastructure development. These development agencies generated profits
during the late sixties and seventies, and these profits were used by the government as a general
revenue source to support its budgets. Consequently, following the collapse of commodity prices in
the eighties, Cote d'Ivoire becanie saddled with numerous non performing "Etablissements Publics a
Caractere Industriel et Comrnercial" (EPICs) all of whichi required -- and still require -- enormous
sums of budgetary support. PALMINDUSTRIE, created in 1963 as an industrial plantation company,
is no exception. It is the major beneficiary of L.oan 2627-IVC for the Fifth Oil Palm Development
Project, which was approved in 1986 against a background of macro and sectoral adjustments begun
in 1981.
1.02    In  1981, the Government launched a Structural Adjustment Program  to restore
macroeconomic equilibria and lay the basis for the resumption of growth. The focus of the program
was on internal demand adjustment and the initiation of structural reforms fostering growth. Public
investment was reduced from an average of 15 percent of GDP between 1976 and 1982 to 6 percent
of GDP in 1986-88 largely through reduction of low priority investments. In addition, the parastatal
sector was substantially restructured and a broad range of fiscal measures were implemented to
increase revenue. Monetary policy was tightened. Measures were also taken to improve the most
obvious distortions in the system of economic incentives and a tariff-cum-export subsidy scheme was
introduced in 1986 to compensate for the real exchange rate overvaluation. Adjustment policies
significantly increased resource shifts to tradables through rising agricultural producer prices
(although these remained administratively determined) while public sector wages were declining in
real terms. The prograni was supported by three SALs from the Bank in 1981, 1983 and 1986 and by
an Extended Finance Facility and hvo Stand-By Arrangements from the IMF in 1981, 1984 and
1986. With regard to the agricultural sector, the three SALs concentrated their efforts in the areas of
pricing and taxation policy, and parastatal reform. In pricing policy, the general thrust was towards
raising producer cocoa and (especially) coffee prices to correct for historic discrimination against
agriculture. This had a favorable supply response until 1986. when prices of these two commodities
fell on world markets making it impossible to further augment the prices. Export subsidies were also
granted to non-traditional exports, but this reform was not implemented in a consistent manner.
Institutional reforms involved increasing efficiency and accountability of a number of the major crop
and forestry parastatals.



2
1.03  The Fifth Oil Palm Development Project was one of several projects mounted in support of
these agricultural sector adjustment measures. The basic concept consisted in taking
PALMINDUSTRIE, the officially designated, regional development agency for the south of the
country, building on its structure by expanding its production and agro-industrial bases and increasing
its responsibility for small/medium-size holdings. The project design assumed that sustained demand
on world markets for palm oil would assure sufficiently attractive price levels to generate enough
internal cash to finance up to 43 percent of the US$185 million cost of the package. In an effort to
impose cost control on commercial activities, a "Contrat Plan" with PALMINDUSTRIE fixing
technical and financial parameters was built into the design with the aim of attaining commercially
sustainable operations. The authors of the project assumed that the "Contrat Plan", backed up by
technical assistance, would be enough to help PALMINDUSTRIE overcome its weak management
structure.
2.    Project Objectives
2.01   The major objective of the project was to increase the country's palm oil production to meet
projected increased domestic demand for fats and oils and to diversify the country's export revenue
base. These goals were to be reached through replacement of aging plantations and development of
new plantings in small, medium and large industrial plantations. An environmental benefit of the
development was the maintenance of a tree cover in a situation of rapidly depleting forest areas. The
project had the following specific components: (a) Industrial Plantations - establishment by
PALMILNDUSTRIE of 11,600 ha of new industrial oil palm plantations at four locations: in the
south-west at Blidouba (3,000 ha) and Neka (6,000 ha), and in the center at North-Tamabo (2,000 ha)
and Bolo (600 ha); and replanting of about 15,000 ha of aging industrial oil palm plantations amongst
PALMINDUSTRIE's holdings; (b) Smallholdings - expansion and replanting of existing smallholder
oil palm plantings by about 29,100 ha adjacent to all the existing PALMINDUSTRIE plantations; and
establishment of about 6,900 ha new smallholder oil palm plantings at Ehania, Dabou, North-
Tamabo, Blidouba and Neka; (c) Medium-Size Plantations - establishment of a pilot scheme of
medium-size oil palm plantations, amounting to about 2,100 ha at Blidouba, Neka and North-
Tamabo; (d) Oil Mills - construction of two palm oil mills with eventual capacities each of 40 tons
FFB/hour; (e) Effluent Treatment - a study of alternative effluent treatment systems and installation
of an effluent treatment prototype system at an existing oil mill and of an effluent prototype digestor
at Ehania; (f) Research - support for accompanying research on oil palm agronomy and pathology;
and (g) Technical Assistance - provision of technical assistance to PALMINDUSTRIE for project
implementation, the evaluation of project progress and the development of a training program.
2.02  The project was prepared by PALMINfDUSTRIE and the Government in the context of the
Second Oil Palm Plan during 1981/82 with the help of a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) which
financed soil and topographic surveys for the plantation expansion program. Appraisal took place in
October/November 1984 and loan negotiations were held in Washington from July 23 to 29, 1985.
On October 22, 1985 the Bank's Board approved a loan of US$13.4 million equivalent in support of
the proposed US$184.9 million project. CFD, CDC, FED and the EIB each committed $13.4 million
to project financing. PALMTNDUSTRIE was required to finance from its own resources US$78.7
million, while US$30.4 million was to come from farmers and the "Fonds d'Extension et de
Renouvellement" (FER - Extension and Planting Fund). The one condition of board presentation was



3
that the Government and PALMINDUSTRIE sign a "Contrat Plan" governing the technical and
financial management of PALMINDUSTRIE during project implementation.
2.03   The question of privatization had been under discussion for a number of years prior to
preparation of the project. Rationale for Bank involvement was thus questioned. The Bank obviously
felt uneasy about Government's longer term intentions and stated goals with respect to
PALMINDUSTRIE's future. Institutional and management reforms were subject to close scrutiny by
the loan committee; other concerns were over interest rates and dividend payments. As a result the
"Contrat Plan" was revised. Credit to smallholders was questioned, particularly the arrangements for
recovery of funds lent under FER The loan committee expressed concern about repayments not
being credited to individual smallholder accounts.
3.    Achievement of Objectives
3.01   Given PALNINDUSTRIE's long experience with technical aspects of establishing both,
industrial and smallholder oil-palm plantations, its performance throughout project execution in this
area was good. Indeed PALMINDUSTRIE's ability and capacity to open up new areas, both for
industrial and smallholder plantations, was limited only by its access to financial resources.
Throughout project implementation the demand from smallholders for assistance with replanting and
new plantations was very strong as oil palms became relatively more profitable than the traditional
crops of coffee and cocoa in the wake of the collapse of prices for these commodities. An additional
strong incentive for farmers was that oil palms are a source of revenue practically year-round,
whereas cocoa and coffee are seasonal crops. Thus, up to the time of the completion mission,
PALMINDUSTRIE was still turning away requests from smallholders for oil palm development
assistance. Although the main objective of increasing palm oil production to meet projected domestic
demand and increase export revenues was met, the associated objectives of strengthening
PALMINDUSTRIE's management and finances was not met, thereby affecting sustainability of
benefits. Thus, overall the project objectives were not met.
3.02  It takes about 3 years for oil palm to start yielding and another three years to peak, and thus
the financial results of the project after about five years from project completion would provide a
more representative picture of the performance of the project. The project's field activities in oil
palm were only in the south eastern and south western parts of the country which are considered quite
suitable for oil palm growing. PALMrNDUSTRIE, however, has oil palm plantations that spread
across the tropical forest zone in the southern part of the country and some of its plantations are
located in less favorable areas. Available data indicates that yields in plantations in the central and
central west sectors are about 35 percent below those in the southeast and southwest. This would
clearly affect its future profitability. Over-optimistic projections for world market prices for palm oil
and an exchange rate that dropped from CFA franc 490 = 1 US$ in 1986 to CFA franc 267 in 1992,
as well as higher than projected production costs, are mainly responsible for PALMINDUSTRIE's
failing to achieve financial objectives set during appraisal and loan negotiations. Prices in CFA franc
from 1986 to 1992 remained below 50 percent of forecast and went even as low as 29 percent in
1990. At the time of project appraisal, in 1984, the company's financial health was sound.
Ostensibly, the major institutional goal of the project was to preserve and consolidate the company's
solid financial performances for a number of years in order to set the stage for privatization. As part



4
of this consolidation effort, a two-phased pricing reform package was agreed upon between
Government and external donors. Firstly, smallholder FFB prices were to be linked to world palm oil
prices. Secondly, a tariff-cum-subsidy scheme would be introduced to provide effective protection to
outgrowers, PALMINDUSTRIE and the domestic refiniing industry. Compensatory payments would
be made to PALMINDUSTRIE for the portion of palm oil it exports at world market prices. In 1990,
in response to world prices, Government reduced the producer price for FFBs from CFA franc 19/kg
to CFA franc 14/kg. However, PALMINDUSTRIE's productioni costs continued to increase and in
1993 they exceeded world market prices by about CFA franc 20.000/metric ton. Government -- under
the protection formula -- owed PALMINNDUSTRIE some CFA franc 7.3 billion in accumnulated
compensatory payments for palm oil exports. The principal institutional goal was, thus, not reached.
3.03   One of the aims of the planting progranms for the industrial plantations was to even out the age
composition to reach a relatively constant annual rate of planting. However, the reduction in
industrial plantings (para 4.01) further delayed the achievemenit of an ideal age distribution. Given
the high overall percentage of palm trees more than 20 years old, PALMINDUSTRIE's yields are
falling significantly short of projections. SAR calculations are based upon average yields which are
about 20 percent above those actually achieved. In 1992, the overall yield was projected to be 13.2
metric ton/ha whereas only 11.4 metric ton/ha was reached. The absence of a consistent replanting
policy on all estates is partly responsible for this situation. When PALMINDUSTRIE -- with the
consent of the Bank -- decided to limit industrial plantings (para 4.01), it should have concentrated on
replanting rather than continuing with the establishment of new plantations. The issue of age
imbalance does not seem to have been given sufficient attention. It affects long-term profitability and
thus marketability for privatization. As for yields on smallholdings, no accurate assessment can be
made as no surveys have been undertaken to estimate how much of the crop is consumed on the farm
using traditional processing methods. Deliveries to PALMINDUSTRIE mills are only for part of the
production. Nonetheless, PALMINDUSTRIE's assessment that smallholder yields are about 70
percent of the industrial plantings does correspond to experience in other countries.
3.04   Over the three years (1990-92), actual extraction rates of PALMINDUSTRIE's mills
averaged 21.5 percent. This compares favorably with projections which for these years were 20.7
percent. However, ratings for the new Blidouba mill are not included. Given PALMINDUSTRIE's
struggle to finance spare parts and operations, this performance is good. However, reception areas in
all but the newest mills are in nieed of rehabilitation to reduce losses of fruitlets on ramps and in
chutes.
3.05   Smallholders have been doing well under the project. Based on data collected by
PALMINDUSTRIE, on an average holding of 4 ha, returns per day of family labor at full maturity
were around CFA franc 5,000 with a financial rate of return of around 20 percent. Thus, oil palm
replaced cocoa and coffee as the most lucrative cash crop. Since the Government of the Republic of
Cote d'Ivoire had not sought repayments under the FER, the return was actually about 26 percent and
close to that estimated at appraisal. However, returns accruing to smallholders and mid-sized
plantations were being sustained by PALMINDUSTRIE supporting operations through non-
collection of FER contributions and probably through losses on processing charges. Perhaps one of
the most serious problems of PALMINDUSTRIE has been that it has not been able to reconstitute
actual costs for the palm oil pricing structure and, therefore, recommend price adjustments to



5
Government accordingly. However, with the January 1994 CFA franc devaluation and revised
pricing structures, the burden on PALMINDUSTRIE's finances will be less, especially with loan
repayments being enforced.
4.    Implementation Experience
4.01   Within 6 months of loan effectiveness, PALMINDUS fRIE requested a joint supervision
mission to scale down the program of industrial plantations to a total of 11,000 ha as opposed to the
26,600 ha projected at appraisal. Also the small-holder target was marginally reduced from 38,100
ha to 35,300 ha. As a result the project description in the Loan Agreement was amended by exchange
of correspondence in February 1989. 'Fhe reason given was the lower than expected world market
price for crude palm oil. It was agreed that the resultant savings of external funds (IBRD/CFD) would
serve to finance the increased costs of technical assistance. Thus, planting achievements were only
72 percent of appraisal targets, as shown below:
Appraisal       Actual         Percent
Industrial Plantations - ha             26,600           11,072          42
Small & Medium-size holdings - ha       38&100          35,284           93
Total                     64,700          46,356           72
4.02  Implementation of the planting program, both for smallholders and industrial plantations,
took place in the years 1986-90. A recurring theme throughout the 12 Bank supervision mission
reports  was the high production costs of PALMfINDUSTRIE.  At the behest of the Bank,
PALMINDUSTRIE undertook a small, comparative study between production costs in South East
Asia (Malaysia) and the Cte d'lvoire to "better understand differences". Low labor productivity (of
the planting and the harvesting/milling process) and high overhead costs were the main causes of the
higher cost which to some extent was reflective over the overvalued CFA franc. The Bank
consistently reminded management of the need to trim overheads and to increase labor productivity in
order to become competitive on world markets.
4.03   The Neka mill, entirely financed by CDC, was constructed as planned and was commissioned
in 1991. With the downsizing of the industrial plantations, a one-line 22t/hr capacity was built
instead of the 2x2Ot/hr projected at appraisal. The plantations began yielding earlier than projected
(1989 and 1990), and FFB was, therefore, transported at additional costs to Iboke some 45 km away.
The mill was constructed and installed under the supervision of PALMINDUSTRIE with a strong
emphasis on standardization of equipment. The Blidouba mill, entirely financed by EIB, was
designed with a one-line capacity of 30t/hr instead of the 2x2Otlhr foreseen at appraisal. However,
since the DCGTx, who were the government's supervising agency for external loans, felt that the
costs for the Neka mill contract had been too high, consuming 75 percent of the estimated costs for a
40t/hr facility, it decided to proceed with international competitive bidding. The contract was awarded
to the lowest bidder who, unfortunately, turned out to be the least experienced. Subcontracts were



6
awarded to local firms for earth and civil works and the equipment was imported from Malaysia. The
equipment, presses in particular, were subject to frequent breakdowns and, at the end of 1993 -- two
years after the scheduled completion date -- the mill had not been fully commissioned.
PALMINDUSTRIE was forced to invoke penalty clauses and the contractor was constantly on site to
make adjustments. Meanwhile, the FFB meant for Blidouba complex were processed at the Iboke
facility, again some 45 km from the plantation nucleus. Owing to the uncertain future of the sub-
sector, the construction of the second production line for both Neka and Blidouba mills was
postponed indefinitely. However, with CDC and EIB approval, the processing capacities of the
existing older Iboke and Bolo mills have been expanded to accommodate possible overflows from
Neka and Blidouba.
4.04  The project provided CFA franc 200 million (US$0.7 million) for the installation of effluent
treatment systems at all of PALMINDUSTRIE's mills. To test a generally applicable system,
PALMINDUSTRIE was to equip one of its mills with a prototype. For reasons that are not entirely
clear, the engineering design study was only completed in early 1993, well after the main investment
program had been executed. With funding from a Japanese grant, a separate study, prepared by
BCEOM of France, was carried out to (a) determine the effectiveness of the currently-used septic
seepage fields; and (b) prepare detailed engineering studies for the construction of effluent treatment
systems at the five mills identified as having priority in environmental terms. The study was
concluded in August 1993 and the Government and PALMINDUSTRIE have looked for external
(grant) money to finance the construction.
4.05  The research program focused mainly on the introduction of genetically improved planting
material and prevention and treatment of root disease (Fusarium). The component was carried out by
Institut de Recherche des Huiles et des Oleagineux (IRHO) under an annually renewable contract.
Whereas a considerable number of genetically improved plants were introduced early during project
implementation and IRHO performed some research on root disease, the program has never been
evaluated. Consequently, its relevance in terms of PALMINDUSTRIE's work and problems is not
known. Work has ceased due to lack of funds.
4.06  A total of 546 person-months of TA was provided under the project in the form of plantation
management contracts. Of that, 180 person-months were provided for continuation of IRHO-directed
long-term monitoring and research. 366 person-months were provided for administration/finance,
marketing, personnel management, technical management, oil milling, workshops and estate
management. Although it is difficult to assess the long term impact of TA on PALMINDUSTRIE, it
is nevertheless evident that TA personnel made systems and practices work. This is particularly true
in the case of technical management for plantations, workshops and garages. The limited availability
of managerial capacity within Cote d'Ivoire to efficiently manage an organization of the size of
PALMINDUSTRIE may have justified the TA provided. The problem, however, is that TA by itself
is not a long term  solution to institutional capacity building in C6te d'Ivoire.  Moreover,
PALM[NDUSTRIE in its present form demands very high-caliber management and the TA probably
served to prolong the existence of an unwieldy structure.



7
5.    Project Costs and Financing
5.01   Based on appraisal costs, the total financing package for the Fifth Oil Palm Project worked
out to US$184.9 million (or CFA franc 91 billion) at the then prevailing exchange rate of CFA franc
490 = I US$. In actual fact the average exchange rate prevailing over the 6-year implementation
period was CFA franc 326.09. Aggregate total costs of the project amounted to CFA franc 56.21
billion or about 93 percent of appraisal estimates. However, only about 40 percent of projected
industrial plantations were undertaken and completed and mill capacities reduced accordingly. If the
appraisal estimates were to be adjusted for the strengthened CFA franc, the project costs were actually
127 percent higher than at appraisal in spite of a lower level of physical achievements. The table
below makes this comparison.
Proiect Costs (in billion CFA franc)
Appraisal   Appraisal Adjusted    Actual       Percent
Industrial Plantations and                    10.8            20.90          194
Smallholdings               48.6           21.6             22.80         106
Factories                       8.9            8.9             9.83          110
Research                        1.1            1.1              .88           80
Technical Assistance            1.8            1.8             1.88          100
Total                     60.4           44.2             56.29         127
5.02  The table above indicates substantial cost over-runs and that PALMlINDUSTRIE's system of
monitoring never worked despite the technical assistance provided to monitor costs.
PALMlNDUSTRIE's cost accounting system -- part of which is not even computerized yet -- is
neither sufficiently detailed, nor accurate, to generate data as to where exactly cost overruns occur.
Added to this was the problem of a refusal to adjust FFB prices in spite of a steep decline in world
market prices for palm oil. The combined impact of these events on PALMINDUSTRIE's finances
has been devastating. Whatever little reserves it had accumulated by the mid-1980s were quickly
absorbed, as cash needs to cover production losses proved overwhelming. In fact as the table in
Appendix B illustrates, all major financial parameters diverge significantly from the projections at
appraisal. Revenue and net income have been well below forecasts with overhead and operating costs
being only marginally below projections in spite of a reduced development program.
5.03   PALMINDUSTRIE at project completion owed some CFA franc 19.0 billion to third parties,
including CFA franc 8.2 billion to suppliers and CFA franc 4.5 billion to banks for overdrafts. It had
increasingly begun to finance its losses by relying on short-term money thereby losing the confidence
of suppliers as well as banks. In fact, PALMINDUSTRIE was no longer in a position to service its
long-term debt of CFA franc 20.2 billion. Towards the middle of 1993 the situation reached crisis
proportions and the GRCI was forced to appoint an Assistant General Manager in charge of finance.



8
His principal task was to clean house and to restore control over cash flows. He did not succeed in his
efforts and has since departed. Restoration of financial health, however, is only possible with the
infusion of a considerable amount of cash. If Government were to pay its arrears, made up of CFA
franc 7.3 billion in export premia, CFA franc 3.1 billion in value-added tax (refunds) and CFA franc
4.5 billion in payables under the FER, PALM1NDUSTRIE would get some respite. For a time,
operations had been at a virtual standstill affecting staff salary payments and payments to
smallholders. However, the devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994 has gradually worked into
the economy and made possible different pricing structures which have helped to ease the situation.
Consequently, PALMINDUSTRIE has been able to settle most of its arrears for short-term debt.
However, in the next decade PALMINDUSTRIE's holdings wvill require massive sums to invest in
replanting of estates as well as rehabilitation of milling equipment. The sums required are clearly
beyond the reach of Government and PALMINDUSTRIE. Thus, divestitutre of PALMINDUSTRIE
is an important option for the government.
6.    Sustainability
6.01   Unquestionably, the most positive impact of PALMINNDUSTRIE as a regional development
agency with the broadest, possible mandate, including social development, was in the human
dimension of sustainable development. By providing improved housing, water, schooling and
medical services in often remote areas, it contributed greatly towards improving people's living
conditions, thereby stemming their exodus to urban centers.  Indeed, through its smallholder
plantation program, it managed to attract younger people back to rural areas by providing them
assistance with the establishment of plantations. However, PALMINDUSTRIE's raised smallholders'
expectations by paying FFB prices that were higher than those obtainable on the basis of world
market prices for palm oil. The artificially high FFB prices paid to smallholders have encouraged an
over-reliance on oil palm as a secure source of income, especially with palm trees bringing revenue
practically year-round as opposed to coffee and cocoa. Indeed, the rather high returns to family labor
have had the effect of numerous farmners neglecting their coffee and cocoa holdings. Realistic farm-
gate prices that are more in tune with world market prices would have lead to a much less enthusiastic
response from smallholders. Also, it is well-known that many of the participating smallholders, by
one estimate 25 percent, are absentee farmers many of whom are Ivorian civil servants. This raises
the question of inequitability. A related issue is the repayment of loans by small holders and mid-
size plantation owners. With the devaluation of the CFA franc, the adjustment of producer prices
provides more scope to have a loan repayment and collection process that is equitable to the lender
and the recipient.
6.02   Excepting the absence of effluent treatment systems, the project's impact on the environment
is generally good. The overall impact on soil fertility, caused by crown formation, the use of palm
fronds as mulch and the planting of cover-crop can be assessed as positive. Furthermore, where
necessary, PALMINDUSTRIE established contour bunds on slopes to control erosion. Although all
mill effluent traversed effluent traps (ponds) before its return to streams and creeks, the process is
insufficient to restore water purity. It is, therefore, vital that PALMILNDUSTRIE install effluent
treatment systems at all its mills to preserve drinking water sources for adjacent populations.



9
6.03   After undertaking a privatization study in 1994, the government recently decided that
PALMINDUSTRIE's oil palm operations be offered for privatization as five separate lots, each with
its large plantations, oil mills and surrounding smallholder supply areas. Its coconut operations would
also be consolidated into a single lot and offered for private ownership. The land would be
transferred on a lease basis. The smallholders will be organized through a producers association
which would work closely with the Ministry of Agriculture to effect repayments of loans from FER.
The exact mechanics of the privatization and servicing of smallholders especially with regard to
extension services and research have yet to be finalized. The relationship between the smallholders,
their association and the private sector owners of mills will also need to be worked out. This
movement towards a strict contractual relationship in respect of the commercial activities is clearly a
step that would enhance the sustainability of the assets built up by PALMINDUSTRIE.
7.    Bank Performance
7.01   Throughout project implementation the Bank's Agricultural Unit in the Resident Mission in
Abidjan supervised PALMITNDUSTRIE closely. Supervision reports account semi-annually about
the company's decline. In fact, supervision of financial performance was most prevalent throughout
implementation. Three major, recurring themes of supervision reports were: (a) excessive production
costs and their implication on Ivorian competitiveness (or lack thereof) on world markets; (b) lack of
recovery of FER contributions to establishment of smallholdings; and (c) the lower than projected
domestic consumption of palm oil (due to decrease in purchasing power) and, therefore, rapidly
increasing export losses of PALM[NDUSTRIE. The Bank recognized early on that recessionary
pressures in the Cote d'Ivoire would have a negative impact on consumption of palm oil. It correctly
approved a major reduction in PALMINDUSTRIE's industrial planting program at that time;
however, it should also have urged Government to correspondingly reduce support for expansion in
smallholdings. A very dynamic situation on world markets for palm oil necessitated a certain number
of corrective remedies, correctly prescribed by the Bank, during project implementation. Continuous
discussions were held with Government about suggested remedies, including downward revisions of
FFB prices to smallholders as well as sectoral adjustments. In particular, the reduction of public
sector involvement in the micro-management of the oil-palm industry and production cost and
overhead cost reductions of PALMINDUSTRIE were raised in letters and discussions held with the
Government. Yet. Government had neither the political will, nor the requisite amount of cash, to
undertake the painful adjustments required to resolve the thorny problems besetting
PALMINDUSTRIE.
8.    Borrower Performance
8.01   PALMINDUSTRIE, a parastatal and a regional development agency, has a broad mandate
and touches the lives of an estimated 500.000 people in a major region of the C6te d'Ivoire, including
the maintenance of some 17,000 km of feeder roads, numerous schools, housing developments and
medical facilities.   Government and decision-makers have seldom  been concerned over
PALMINDUSTRIE's financial health. Indeed, in most cases it has been simply assumed that it
always had at its disposal cash reserves generated by the sale of palm  oil.   Thus,
PALMINDUSTRIE's management -- appointed by the Government -- had to execute orders no
matter whether they made sense or not from the financial standpoint. This attitude prevailed during



10
project execution and necessary but unpopular adjustment measures were not carried out,
notwithstanding the fact that Government received from the Bank regular reports of project status and
problems, including PALNINDUSTRIE's overall financial situation. It, however, must be added
that, even if Government had the political will to adjust mid-way to changing world market
conditions, it would have lacked the (financial) resources to restore the palm oil sub-sector to
financial equilibrium. An estimated CFA franc 20.0 billion was needed, mainly, to pay off arrears to
restore financial health to the sub-sector. Compliance to covenants was satisfactory in respect of
technical and managerial aspects of implementation.  However, compliance on government
obligations on funding, loan collection and pricing of FFB was quite unsatisfactory.
9.    Assessment of Outcome
9.01   Overall the project failed to achieve its objectives and thus has an unsatisfactory outcome. In
terms of physical assets, the project has provided the country with a means of increasing palm oil
production to meet domestic demand and to diversify export revenues. Unfortunately, domestic
demand has been less than projected and export prices have been substantially lower than estimated,
except in 1994/95. Consequently, the project period saw the rapid decline in the fortunes of
PALMFN[)USTRIE. PALMINDUSTRIE's decision making processes were heavily influenced by
political rather than financial considerations. PALMINDUSTRIE's structure, with a politically
appointed managenment teanm, was unsuited for managing a commercial operation as social objectives
invariably took precedence over commercial ones. The steady decline of world market prices of palm
oil and the implementation of the oil palm sub-sector pricing reforms proposed under the project
would have required a level of commitment (and resources) on the part of Government that was not
to be found, given the extremely difficult macro-economic and political situation in CMte d'lvoire.
Besides, PAL,MINDUSTRIE neither possessed the required analytical tools nor the internal capacity
to adjust, in a timely fashion, to world market price fluctuations.
10.   Future Operation
10.01 As mentioned in paragraph 6.03, the government has already instituted actions to privatize
PALMINDUSTRIE by dividing its operations into six separate units. The actual offer for sale has
yet to be made. The arrangements to service smallholders for processing and collection of loan
repayments will be an integral part of this process.  Privatization offers the government the
opportunity to rationalize its involvement in the oil palm sub-sector and restrict its activities to
research and extension. The prospects for receiving serious and reasonable offers for purchase by the
private sector have been enhanced by the devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994.
11.   Key Lessons Learned
11.01 The main lessons to be learned are as follows:
(a)   that support prices for producers during an extended period of low market external
prices for a commodity coupled with an over-valued currency are non-sustainable
even by the healthiest of economies and can have devastating consequences for
agencies responsible for bearing the cost of such support;



I1
(b)    that sustainability of a government commercial organization is closely linked to a
favorable economic framework, appropriate pricing policies, and availability of strong
managerial and financial skills related to the size of its operations;
(c)    technical assistance personnel in charge of implementing project activities are seldom
able to devote time to building local capacity or be advocates of major restructuring of
the operation they manage; and
(d)    if no clear distinction is made between the social and profit-oriented operations
through government budgets, supporting social activities from profits can soon
become untenable.






12
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of            Substantial    Partial    Nealigible   Not applicable
Macro Policies                0            O            0             0
Sector Policies               0            0            0             0
Financial Objectives          0            0z                         0
Institutional Development     0            0            0             o
Physical Objectives           03           0            0             0
Poverty Reduction             0            03           0             0
Gender Issues                 0            0            0             0
Other Social Objectives       0            0            0             0
Environmental Objectives      0            0            0             o
Public Sector Management      03           0            0             0
Private Sector                O            0            El            0
Development
Other (specify)               El           0            O3            El
B. Proiect Sustainability       Likely             Unlikely             Uncertain
(/)                 (/)                  6')
El                  0                     El



13
(Continued)
Highly
C. Bank Performance             satisfactory     Satisfactory           Deficient
(/)                 (/)                  (1)
Identification               0                    0                    0
Preparation Assistance       0                    10                   0
Appraisal                    0                    EE 0
Supervision                  E                                         a
Highly
D. Borrower Performance         satisfactory     Satisfactory           Deficient
(1)                (V)                   (/)
Preparation                    E                  0                     El
Implementation                 O                  E                     0
Covenant Compliance            El                 0                     E
Operation (if applicable)      El                 E                     E
Highlv                                  Highly
E. Assessment of outcome       satisfactory Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
El)          El)          0/              El



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title      Purpose          Year of approval         Status
Preceding operations
1. 611-613-IVC      Oil Palm & Coconut           1069            Completed
2. 759-760-IVC      Coconut Dev.                 1971             Completed
3. 1036-IVC         Agric Oil Palm IV            1974             Completed
4. 1382-IVC         Oil Palm/Coconut IV          1977             Completed
Following operations
1. 1327-IVC         Ag. Sect. Adj.               1989            Completed
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned        Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)   June 1981     1982
Preparation                              1983              April 1984
Appraisal                                1984              Oct./Nov. 1984
Negotiations                             Feb. 1984         7/23/1985
Board Presentation                       March 1984        10/22/1985
Signing                                  12/11/1985        12/11/1985
Effectiveness                                  -           7/7/1986
Project Completion                       12/31/1993        6/30/1993
Loan Closing                             6/30/1994         6/30/1994



15
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89  FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93
Appraisal Estimate               2.1  4.0   6.0   8.1   10.1  11.9  12.9  13.4
Actual                           0.0  8.0   10.1  10.4  11.5  11.9  12.0  12.3
Actual as percent of Estimate    200  168   128   113   100   93    91
Date of Final Disbursement       September 17, 1992
Note: Out of the Bank's share of US$13.4 million, an undisbursed amount of US$ 1.1 million
was canceled on October 30, 1994.



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operations
I. Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR/             Estimated                   Actual
President's Report                                                          l
1. Industrial Plantations ha        26,600                     11,072
2. Small & Med. Holdings ha         38,100                     35,284
Total                      64,700                     46,356
Percentage Actual Plantations                                  72 percent
II. At Average Implementa-
tion Exchange Rate of
CFA franc 326.0=1 US$
(in billion CFA franc)
1. Indust.& Smallhold.Planta.        48.6                       43.7
2. Factories                          8.9                       9.83
3. Research                           1.1                       0.88
4. Technical Assistance               1.8                        1.88
Total                      60.4                      56.29
III. Modified Indicators with
40 percent of actual
plantations achieved
(in billion CFA franc)
1. Industrial Plantations           ;0.8                      20.90
2. Smallholdings                     21.6                       22.80
3. Factories                          8.9                       9.83
4. Research                           1.1                       0.88
5. Technical Assistance               1.8                       1.88
Total                      44.2                      56.29



17
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study         at Appraisal/Redefined       Status          Impact of Study
1. Alternative       Installation of an     Completed in early   Searching for
Effluent Treatment    effluent treatment     1993, two years    external (grants)
Systems.             prototype system at    after the main      money to finance
existing oil mill and of   investment      construction.
an affluent prototype  program.
digestor at Ehania.
2. Study with        Assess effectiveness of   Completed in     Government and
funding under        currently used septic  August 1993.        PALMINDUSTRIE
Japanese grant       seepage fields and to                      searching for
(AEDP) prepared by   prepare detailed                           external (grants)
BCEOM of France.   engineering studies for                      money to finance
construction of effluent                   the construction.
treatment systems at
five mills identified as
having priority in
environmental terms.



18
Table 7A: Project Costs
(in billion CFA franc)
Appraisal Estimatel
Actual
Exchange Rate"               Exchange Rate                 Exchange Rate
Item                                      CFA franc 490=US$1           CFA franc 326=US$l            CFA franc 326=US$1
1. Industrial Plantations                               31.0                          10.8                          20.90
2. Small &  Medium-Size                                 24.1                          21.6                          22.80
Plantations
3. Factories (Oil Mills &  Effluent                      9.9                           8.9                           9.83
rreatment)
4. Research                                               1.3                           1.1                          0.88
5. Technical Assistance                                  2.1                           1.8                           1.88
6. Project Preparation                                   0.2
7. Contingencies                                        22.1                                                                           l
TOTAL                                                  90.7                          44.24                        56.295
Appraisal Exchange Rate was CFA franc 490   US$1
2
Average Exchange Rate over 6-year Implementation Period was CFA franc 326 = US$1, reducing available amount to CFA franc 60.4
billion or 67 percent of the appraisal amount.
Only 40 percent of industrial plantation have been achieved.
4
Includes Contingencies.
5 Includes Contingencies.



19
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$M)                    (US$M)
Source                    At Appraisal           At Implementation
Exchange Rate of          Exchange Rate of
US$ = CFA franc 490       US$1= CFA franc 326
Local   Foreign    Total            Total
Cost     Cost
PALMINDUSTRIE/FER/
PLANTERS                    98.7       19.4      118.1          83.65
IBRD                           -        13.4       13.4          12.60
CDC                            -        13.4       13.4          16.87
CFD
3.9        9.5       13.4          18.89
FED                           5.5        7.8       13.3          21.84
EIB                            -        13.3       13.3          18.58
TOTAL:          108.1      76.8      184.9         172.43
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits
The SAR suggests an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Financial Rate of Return
(FRR) of 14.7 and 18.1 percent respectively. Given the poor financial status of
PALMINDUSTRIE at project closing no ERR was recalculated.



20
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section  Covenant Present  Original   Revised              Description of               Comments
type    status  fulfillment fulfillment         covenant
date       date
Ln.2627     3.01 (a)   5         CP                            The borrower declares its    Partially met.
(iii)                                             commitment to the objectives  PALMINDUSTRIE was
of the project, including   not given necessary funds
provision of funds to enable  to meet all its obligations.
PALMINDUSTRIE to
perform its obligations
3.01     5          CP                             PALMINDUSTRIE shall          Collection of FER Loan
carry out its operations and    repayments from farmers
conduct its affairs in      was never enforced.
accordance with a time-table
acceptable to the Bank.
3.03     2          NC                             The borrower shall imple-    Government did not
ment a Palm Oil Pricing     allow PALMINDUSTRIE
System, satisfactory to the    to lower FFB prices
Bank.                       sufficiently to maintain
financial equilibrium.
3.03 (c)  5         NC                             PALMINDUSTRIE shall          The timetable was never
install effective effluent  presented to the Bank,
treatment systems at all its    allegedly for lack of
oil mills in accordance with a  appropriate engineering
timetable acceptable to the    services experienced in
Bank.                       the field.
4.03 (a)  2         NC      03/91                  Except as the Bank shall     PALMINDUSTRIE's
& (b)                                              otherwise agree,             equity has effectively
PALMINDUSTRIE shall not been eliminated because
incur any debt that will    FFB prices were never
increase the debt equity ratio  adjusted as Government
beyond 1.5:1.               lacked the will to make
the necessary, tough
decisions.
Covenant types:
1. = Accounts/audits                           8. = Indigenous people
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
from beneficiaries                      10. = Project implementation not covered by categories
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds           1-9
4. = Counterpart funding                      II. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other
5. = Management aspects of the project or            resource allocation
executing agency                        12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                         regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                 13. = Other
Preseni Status:
C = Covenant complied with
CD = Complied with after delay
CP = Complied with partially
NC= Not complied with



21
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There were no cases of non-compliance with Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                       Actual6
Project Cycle
Weeks                       US'000
Through Appraisal                       46.2                         195.46
Appraisal-Board                          92.2                        390.08
Board-Effectiveness                      10.4                        44.00
Supervision                              74.4                        314.77
Completion                               5.6                         23.69
TOTAL                                  228.8                       968.00
6
Dollar amounts are calculated by multiplying staff weeks by co-efficient for Cote d'lvoire (US$4220,000/staff year and then dividing by
52 weeks)



22
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                Specialized      Implemen-       Develop-
Stage of         Month/           of      Days in    Staff Skills        tation          ment        Types of
Project Cycle        Year         Persons   Field       Represented        .statUs      Objectives      Problems
Through Appraisal    9/82-6/84       6          57          a,b.c,d              7/4
Appraisal through      10/84-7/85    10         39         a.b.c.d,e.f'          14/4 J4
Board Approval
Board Approval        4-21-28/86    3           9           a,b,d                       3/4                     3/4
through
Effectiveness
Supervision I          I /19-30/87    2         12         a.d                                  U            Financial
Supervision 2         6/18-29/87    2            12        a,d                   S              U            Financial
Supervision 3          12/8- 14/87    2         7          b.d                   S              l            Financial
Supervision 4         6/20-24/88                5          b,d                   S              U            Financial
Supervision 5         2/20-24/189    2          5           b.d                  S              U            Financial
Supervision 6         6/26-30/89    2           5          b,d                   S               S           Financial
Supervision 7         2/90           2                     b.d
Supervision 8         3/6-8/91       1          3          d                     S              S
Supervision 9         12/'?-23/91    1                     b                     U              U          Institutional
Supervision 10        3/93           I          -
Supervision 11         1/31 -        3           13        a,d                   U              U            Financial
2/12/94
Completion             11/4-         1          28         t'                    /4             ]/4             3/4
12/2'93
Skills Key: a - Tree Crop Specialist; b - Agriculturist; c - Economist; d - Financial Analyst;
e - Environmenitalist;  f- Consultant
7 Even though this was a supervision mission, it is not taken as such since the project was not yet effective due to loan agreements not yet
finalized with CCCE and CDC.
8
A short mission. No full supervision report prepared.



Appendix A
(English Translation of French Version)
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FIfTH OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2627-IVC)
COMMENTS
By letter no. AG/337 of October 6, 1995 you sent a copy of the Implementation
Completion Report for the Fifth Oil Palm Development Project financed by the World Bank under
Loan 2627-IVC to the Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux for analysis and comment. We
herewith submit:
As the report follows standard Bank format, we have no specific objections in that
regard;
The substance of the report reflects your viewpoints regarding  project
implementation by all stakeholders. A good number of those points are justified.
However, some of them should be revised or fleshed out. These would include in
particular the implementation rate of physical objectives, evaluation of technical
assistance, evaluation of financial performance and sustainability.
1.    Achievement of physical objectives
Following the changes made in January 1987, i.e. six months after project effectiveness,
the physical data on the project can be summarized as follows:
1 -           2 -          3 -         4 -            5 -            6 -
Initial    Final objective   Reduction  Reduction rate  Implementation  Implementation
objective (ha)    (ha)        in area   (4) = (3)/(1)     (ha)           rate
(ha)
Industrial      26,000         11,00        15,600        59          11,072         100.65
plantations
Small and       38,100        33,300        2,800         7           35,284          99.95
medium-size
holdings
Total           64,700        46,300        18,400        28          46,356         100.12
In the wake of the fall of the dollar, initial planting targets were reduced by 28%. The
new target could not be achieved in its entirety; 46,356 ha were planted as against the 46,300



2
ultimately decided. Consequently, the Bank should revise its figures in para. 4.01, p. 5, of its
draft report.
2.    Evaluation of technical assistance
The performance of technical assistance was not clearly addressed. Except for the
agricultural and industrial techniques that PALMINDUSTRIE uses because of good personnel
training and the availability of local expertise, its management techniques have not been consistent
with the objectives sought. To get a clearer idea of the role of technical assistance, the man-
month projections should have been compared with the actual figures and the same procedure used
to evaluate the provision of technical assistance with respect to management of the enterprise.
3.    Financial performance
The fall of the dollar prompted a review of project targets and resulted in their being
downsized.  During the project implementation period, the exchange rate for the dollar
experienced wide fluctuations, plunging to CFAF 326.9, i.e. 33% in relation to the projected
CFAF 490.
This inevitably depreciated the project's total financial package in current values
(US$184.9 million), from CFAF 90.6 to 60.4 billion, i.e. a drop of 33%.
To ensure better consistency between physical objectives and project costs, equilibrium
should be sought by either expanding the total project financing in foreign exchange from
US$184.9 to 271.1 million, or scaling back projections from the 64,700 ha to 43,349 ha with the
original financial package. Given the very grim prospects for the dollar exchange rate and the
prices for palm oil on the world market, it evidently would have ultimately been more logical to
revise objectives downward.
The planting targets were reduced from 64,700 to 46,300 ha, i.e. 28 %. At the same time,
the financial package shrank in current terms from CFAF 90.6 to 60.4 billion following the 33%
drop in the dollar exchange rate, then to CFAF 44.2 after revision, i.e. 51 % in relation to initial
estimates (CFAF 90.6 billion).
As such, the percentages in para. 5.01 and in the table on p. 7 seem contradictory. In
point of fact, project costs of 127% higher than at appraisal could be due to an underestimating
of post-revision costs and the considerable overrun (+94%) of the cost of the industrial plantations
could be due to the difficulties of controlling costs in a system in which management costs had
become very burdensome.
Moreover, the financial soundness of PALMINDUSTRIE was briefly addressed without
an indication of debt service, which should be treated by type of investment and unit.



3
Lasly, it should be clarified that, in relation to final projections, 100.65 % of the industrial
plantations were established.
4.    Sustainability
The project was a success in socioeconomic terms because PALMINDUSTRIE was able
to carry out its regional development mission. Oil palm has become an attractive crop for
smallholders because of the income it generates for the growers all year long. FFB prices to
smallholders, which had been propped up by FER price supports that rapidly became precarious,
plummeted to CFAF 14/kg. Today, owing to a change in the parity of the CFA franc and an
increase in the price, the producer purchase price has again risen, to CFAF 21/kg. In accordance
with the price-setting mechanism for the producer purchase price established by
PALMINDUSTRIE and discussed every six months by stakeholders, it is logical for that price to
fluctuate because it is directly indexed to world prices quoted in dollars. Unfortunately, this is
not the case and constitutes a source of controversy among smallholders belonging to APPCI and
PALMINDUSTRIE. Tile Bank should look into this matter.
Next, regarding privatization, as discussed in para. 6.03 on p. 9, the most worrisome issue
should be the future relations between smallholders and the eventual buyers of
PALMINDUSTRIE's agro-industrial complexes. This issue could be developed in a paragraph
covering the prospects of the subsector in view of Bank policy.
As to the problem of land tenure, one need only look at the strategy adopted for the
privatization of SAPH's, SOGB's and DHE's (Domaine Heveicole de l'Etat) agro-industrial
complexes in order to see that in the Ivorian context, leaseholds seem to be the most appropriate.
5.    Conclusion
The opinions formulated in the four points raised above are not exhaustive. Today, in a
context of privatization of the oil palm subsector, the proposals are manifold. However, given
the realities of the rural areas and our agricultural development policy in Cote d'lvoire, which is
increasingly oriented towards professionalization, the future of smallholders should be considered
seriously by all subsector stakeholders.



Appendix B
PALMINDUSTRIE - Financial Performance
Paraneters:             1986   1987   1988   1989    1990    1991    1992
Revenue:       -SAR    65.6   70.3   75.1   81.1    88.1         95.5    107.3
48.0   44.5   46.5   49.0    49.3       50.2    56.1
Actual
Overhead:      - SAR    34.2   36.3   39.2   42.8    48.1        53.5    59.9
-         41.2   36.5   38.7   40.3    44.2    44.3    49.5
Actual
Operating Costs: - SAP.   38.7   41.2   45.5   50.1    55.8    61.0    67.5
46.3   41.9   43.9   45.6    49.5    49.4    54.6
Actual
Net Income/-Loss -       14.4   16.3   17.3   17.9    17.4    17.8    21.1
SAR                      0.5    0.8    1.0    1.2        1.1     -1.4    -0.8
Actual
Short-term Debt: -       3.0    2.9    2.8    2.8        2.5      2.8     2.8
SAR                      2.5    4.0    2.7    2.5        2.9      6.8     10.5
Actual
Net Equity:    - SAR    51.5   55.4   60.4   64.9    69.4    73.7    80.5
41.0   43.5   45.5   47.3    47.7    46.7    44.7
Actual
Debt Equity Ratio: -     40      39      38      37      37       31       25
SAR                      47      46      43      37      38       41      45
(in Percent)
Actual
* Unless stated otherwise, all figures are in CFA franc billion.






IBRD 27683
5 - r  3-                   T o              7o                      /                                            -O l E   |   8ot,oae  15/ToB het                      '0 8or,oooov           /    3-
DALO                                         YAMOUSSOUKRO                                                       ,
//      Goezo.)                                                                             CIMBOKRO                            EorrgovBo S,Len\       ABEAG(UR K
Tooiepiev         GUIGLO  ~:-lsaT0,0                                                                                                                                   k,o                                          N
V   t       EOEO>@                                        -@  R0bO                   HAN                                      I~~~~ABDJA  Q~ANA    V.
-  JK=                                                 T                                         Grond LohoLj                              Bassao. Nc_-
g)<iGrobo              10                  SASSANDRA                                                           COTE  D'IVOIRE
;7      0 l>BOKE    < nPd                                                                  FTHOIL PALM  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
~~~ m   _ _ > _ _ '   T o b o u                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   E is tirr g   O il  P o i mr  P lo o to tio n s   N E W   P Re O JE T   IT S
8;-                                                                                                     _   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Paved Roads   (   Grobo -Neko
I                                                                                                                                                            1~~~~~~~~~~~~0
5,URITANIA  |      _4                                                                                                                 ^   RIllways                              t/_ > Bolo Estension
THE                       tiNGA A  A LlI   7                                                   KIL OME TBRS                                                           *      lrtterrratiortal Apr                   _, North Tor,obo
GAM E5rA _:~        \                     8URKINAz  .                          0       20   40       o0    S0    100   121G                                                  Other Aitoorts         
GLONEAB8I55Au                     -                                                                                                                                                                         A FASO  \  ISSO
G UI|N EA   $,     -r-                                                                                                                                *      Na tivealr CaGpta
~~~  GHANA~~~~~~~~~                                                                       C      Other Too.ns~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI
SIE2RA LEONE. )  *7 DsIVOIRE   / G      9I                                                                                                                           Inj O OthernaTo BoIOdRiE
3 / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E Q _r"g o_dc Palm. Ps loxth,s                                                                                      NE   POEC  ITS
LIBERIA   \                             .':   _          s     z _ O. v>,  To. do nn al  f _ IT Wr cm
_                   4~~~~r.er oK Mrop  .    .*                                                                                           SA1Y:









IMAGING
Report No:       15283
Type: ICR



