Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
RePort No. p-3968-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT CF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt13.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A
FIFTH OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
September 30, 1985
Thk dumne  has a roetitd dtbgto mad may be used by recipients ody in the pufoanme of
their  lalsea dud. ts ceonte  my vet otfr m  be dislosed without World Bank authorimo.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - CFA Franc (CFAF) 1>
CFAF  490      -  US$1.00
CFAF 1000      -  US$2.04
CFAF 1 million - US$2,041
WEICHTS AND MFASURES: METPTC
Metric                       British/US Equivalent
I meter (i)               -  3.28 feet (ft)
I square meter (m2)       -  10.76 square fect (sq ft)
I cubic meter (mn)        a  35.30 cubic feet (cu ft)
I kilometer (km)          -   0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km2) u   0.39 square mile (sq ni)
I hectare (ha)            -   7.47 acres
1 metric ton (m ton)      a   :.205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNDA      Banque NatLokiale pour le DEveloppement Agricole (National
Agricultural Development Bank).
BSIE      Budget Special d'Investissements et Equipements (Development
Finance Budget).
CAA       Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (Debt Amortization Fund).
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique (Central Fund for
Economic Cooperation - France)
CDC       Commonwealth Development Corporation - UK.
CIDT      Compagnie Ivoirienne pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles
(Ivorian Textile Fibre Development Company).
CSSPPA    Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des Produits
Agricoles (Agricultural Export Stabilization Fund).
DPBCC     Direction de la Planification. Budg4tisation et Controle de
Cestion (Directorate for Budget, Planning and Management
Control, Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forests).
EDF       European Development Fund - EEC.
EIB       European Investment Bank - EEC.
EPA       Etablissement Publique i Caractcre Administratif - Government
Agency Operating under Civil Service Regulations.
PER       Fonds d' Extension et de Renouvellement pour le Developpement de
la culture du Palmier a l'huile (F -pansion and Replanting Fund).
FFB       Fresh Fruit Bunches (the Crop Hat  sted from the Oil Palm)
IRIIO     Institut de Recherche des Builes et des Oleagineux (Oils and
Fats Research Institute)
SAPH      Societe Africaine des Plantations d'HevEas (African Rubber
Plantation Corporation).
SEM       Societe d'Economie Mixte - a Joint Public/Private Enterprise
SODEFOR   Soci6c& pour le Developpement des Plantations Foresticres
(Forestry Plantations Development Corporation)
SODEPALM  Socicte pour le Developpement et l'Exploitation du Palmier a
Huile (Oil Palm Developuent Corporation).
FISCAL YEARS
Government   : January 1 - December 31
PALMINDUSTRIE:  October 1 - September 30
PROJECT YEARS
October 1 - September 30
1/ The exchange rate of the CFA Franc is fixed at 50:1 with the French
Franc, which is a free floating currency.



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
rVORY COAST
FIFTH OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of the.Ivory Coast.
Beneficiaries:      Soci6t6 PALMINDUSTRIE; Fonds d'Extension et de
Renouvellement (FER).
Amount:             US$13.4 million.
Terms:              20 years, Including 5 years of grace; standard variable
interest rate.
Onlending Terms:    Government would on-lend US$9.7 million of the loan
proceeds to PALNINDUSTRIE at the Bank's variable
interest rate plus 32 and US$3.7 million to FER at a
fixed annual interest rate of 92. Both sub-loans would
have the same maturity and grace period as the Bank
Loan to the Government, with the Government bearing the
foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:        The proposed project would be IBRD's fifth operation
in the sub-sector. It would: (i) help the Ivory Coast
meet the increasing demand for fats and edible oils
through both replacement of existing ageing oil palm
plantings and development of new plantings in selected
areas of smallholdings, medium-sized plantations, and
industrial plantations; (ii) further diversify and
strengthen the Ivory Coast agricultural sector through
investment in a crop with substantial comparative
advantages and good long-term growth prospects; (iii)
assist in maintenance of a tree cover in an area where
the forest cover is being depleted rapidly. The
project would consist of the following components:
(a) establishment of 11,600 ha of new PALMINDUSTRIE
industrial oil palm plantations and replanting of about
15,000 ha of ageing plantations; (b) development of
saallholder oil palm plantings through expansion and
replanting of existing areas by about 29,100 ha and new
planting of 6,900 ha; (c) establishment of a pilot
scheme of 2,100 ha medium-sized private oil palm
plantations; (d) construction of two oil mills for
PALMINDUSTRIE with eventual capacities each of 40 tons
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofrfcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authorizttion.



- ii -
FFE/bhour; (e) a study of effluent treatment systems and
installation of an effluent treatment prototype system
at an existing PAL[INDUSTRIE oil mill and an effluent
prototype digestor at Ehania; (f) support of
accompanying research on oil palm agronomy and
pathology; (g) technical assistance to PALNINDUSTRIE.
Benefits and Risks:
The principal project benefit would be the expansion of the oil
palm sub-sector through the production of a diversification crop in which
Ivory Coast has a clear comparative advantage. Apart from the establish-
ment of two new agro-industrial complexes in a thinly populated area with
good climatic and soil conditions, the project emphasizes replanting,
densification and new planting adjacent to existing agro-industrial com-
plexes which will put existing excess processing capacity to economic use.
The project would strengthen PALMINDUSTRIE's financial and managerial
position and by building up a record of profitability for PALMINDUSTRIE and
outgrowers would pave the way for future expansion of the oil palm sub-
sector based on private entrepreneurial initiative. The project would also
provide benefits by providing employment for some 8,000 smallholders and
workers in the forest region of the country.
The major project risk would be an inadequate standard of manage-
ment of existing operations and of the large planting program at head
office and at the agro-industrial complexes. The project provides for
technical assistance to strengthen management, training and evaluation of
the implementation of the planting program. Moreover a "Contrat Plan"'
between Government and PALMINDUSTRIE would clearly delineate the roles and
responsibilities of each party during project implementation. The risk of
unfavorable climatic conditinns and lower than expected prices of oil palm
products exists, but the eco-amic and financial viability of the project
would only be jeopardised by substantially lower prices and yields.



- iii -
Estimated Project Costs
Local    Foreign    Total
---  USS million --
1.  Industrial Plantations              38.5      24.6       63.1
2.  Smallholder Plantations             32.5       11.5      44.0
3. Medium-Sized Plantations              3.4        1.9       5.3
4. Oil Mills                             5.8       13.7      19.5
5.  Research                             1.3        1.4       2.7
6.  Project Preparation                  0.0        0.4       0.4
7.  Technical Assistance                 0.0        4.3       4.3
8.  Effluent Treatment                   0.1        0.5       0.6
Total Base Cost                     81.6      58.3      139.9
Physical Contingencies               5.9        1.6       7.5
Price Contingencies                 20.6       16.9      37.5
Total Project Cost (idcl. taxes)  108.1        76.8     184.9
2_.    _.m=
Taxes                              (39.7)               (39.7)
Total Project Cost (net of taxes)  68.4        76.8     145.2
Financing Plan
LOCAL         FOREIGN         TOTAL
(US$ million)
PALMINDUSTRIE                 59.3             19.4          78.7
FER                           10.6              -            10.6
SMALLHOLDERS                  27.1              -            27.1
MEDIUM-SIZED PLANT             1.7              -             1.7
CCCE                           3.9             9.5           13.4
CDC                             -              13.4          13.4
EDF                            5.5             7.8           13.3
EIB                             -              13.3          13.3
IRD                             -              13.4          13.4
TOTAL                        108.1           76.8          184.9
.  s.~~~~in



- iv -
Estimated Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year
1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992       1993
-UUS$ Million--
Annual      2.1        1.9        2.0      2.1       2.0       1.8       1.0        0.5
Cumulative 2.1        4.0        6.0       8.1      10.1      11.9      12.9       13.4
Economic Rate of Return
The estimated overall Economic Rate of Return for the project is 18.5Z on a
cost/benefit stream of 25 years.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5521-IVC
NAP IBRD 18809
The exchange rate of the CFA Franc is fixed at 50:1 with the French Franc,
which is a free floating currency.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A FIFTH OIL PALM DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of the Ivory Coast for the equivalent of US$ 13.4
million to help finance a Fifth Oil Palm Development Project. The pro-
posed loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at the standard variable rate. US$9.7 million of the proposed
loan would be on-lent to PALMINDUSTRIE, a wholly State-owned corporation,
at the prevailing Bank interest rate plus 3% per annum, and US$3.7 million
to the Expansion and Replanting Fund (FER), which is responsible for
smallholder and medium-sized plantations, at 9Z interest per annum.   Both
sub-loans would carry the same maturity and grace period as the Bank loan
to the Government, with the Government bearing the foreign exchange risk.
The project would be co-financed with the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE) and the Coumonvealth Development Corporation (CDC) vhich
would provide US$13.4 million equivalent each, and the European Develop-
ment Fund (EDF) and the European Investment Bank (EIB) which would provide
US$13.3 million equivalent each. The terms of these loans are expected to
be: CCCE - 20 years maturity, including 5 years of grace, at 8.0 - 10.0%
p.a. interest; CDC - 15 years maturity, including 5 years of grace, at
9.0% p.a. interest; EDF - 40 years maturity, including 10 years of grace,
at 1% p.a. interest; and EIB - 15 years maturity, including 5 years of
grace, at 6.6% p.a. interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The Report No. 1147b-IVC "Ivory Coast: A Basic Economic Report"
was circulated to the Executive Directors in May 1977 and published under
the title "The Challenge of Success" in 1978. The assessment of the
country's economic prospects has been periodically updated in subsequent
President's Reports on specific projects. It has been presented in
greater detail in the "Note on the Economic Situation in the Ivory Coast"
attached as Annex IV to the President's Report on the Second Structural
Adjustment Loan (P-3613-IVC) of June 9, 1983. The paragraphs below
incorporate the principal findings of a recent Bank economic mission.
Annex I provides basic country data.
If This Part is unchanged from the President's Report for the Health and
Demographic project approved by the Board on September 19, 1985.



-2-
Background
3.        During the first two decades after independence in 1960, the
Ivory Coast experienced an average 7% per annum GNP growth rate, one of
the most rapid in the world for a non-oil exporting country. As a result,
GDP per capita reached US$1,150 in 1980, the second highest in Sub-Saharan
Africa. This achievement has been all the more remarkable as the country
has no important mineral resource or other special natural endowment.
Growth performance has been based mainly on the efficient development of
agriculture and a productive use of foreign fac ors of production, capital
as well as labor, within a remarkably stable political environment, an
open economic framework, and a wide scope for private initiative supported
by pragmatic public policies. Despite important diversification efforts,
the country has remained highly vulnerable to variations in the interna-
tional environment. Fcreign trade corresponds to more than 60% of GDP and
the three main agricultural products, coffee, cocoa and timber, still
represent about 50% of exports of goods compared with 85% in 1960. The
benefits of growth were also unevenly distributed as the more limited
potential of the north led to lagging income growth in this region,
despite impressive gains in selected crops such as cotton. Through 1975,
fluctuations in the external terms of trade were not large. The first
major increase in oil prices was temporarily offset by favorable export
prices. The effects of moderate external shocks were also in large part
countered, internally by a price stabilization mechanism for the main
agricultural products and, externally, through membership in the West
African Monetary Union which ensures, inter alia, unlimited free convert-
ibility of the currency through a cooperation agreement with France.
4.        Present economic and financial stringencies stem largely from
the difficulties the country faced in adapting to the sharp adverse
changes which have occurred in the world economy after an export boom had
led to a degree of financial imprudence. Spurred by high coffee and cocoa
prices, which led to an 80% improvement in the terms of trade between 1975
and 1977 and to surpluses in the Agriculture Export Stabilisation Fund
(Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des Produits Agricoles
(CAISSTAB)) representing more than 10% of GDP in 1977, Government launched
an overly ambitious public investment program wh4ch rose to over 25Z of
GDP in 1978, some 40% of which was financed by external borrowings. The
Government maintained the public investment effort at some 20% of GDP
between 1978 and 1980, in spite of declining coffee and cocoa prices and
the resulting 30% deterioration in terms of trade during this period.
However, this program did not generate sustained economic growth, as
public investment had been increasingly oriented toward high-cost and
excessive scale operations in sectors with long pay off periods, such as
education and transport. Marginal returns to investment in directly
productive sectors began to drop off as most obvious comparative advan-
tages had been exploited. These excessive investments, followed by a
decline of export earnings and a contraction of Government revenue, led to
a severe financial crisis in 1980. While GDP was still growing at 7.7%,
fueled by still mounting public expenditures, the public sector financial
gap grew to 12.7% of GDP in 1980 while the balance of payments current
account deficit reached 16.7% of GDP.



-3-
Recent Economic Developments (1981-83)
5.        The cont±nuing adverse prospects for coffee and cocoa prices,
the high cost of foreign borrowings and the worldwide recession led the
Government to launch, at the end of 1980, a stringent financial recovery
plan coupled with a longer term structural adjustment program. The
financial program which aimed at restoring internal and external equi-
librium consisted of a series of budgetary and monetary measures to
contain credit expansion, to increase government revenue, to reverse the
upward trend of current expenditures, and to restrain the investment
program while restricting external borrowings and improving the external
debt profile. This program was supported during the 1981-83 period by a
SDR 484.5 million (US$514 million at 1983 SDR/US$ exchange rate) Extended
Fund Facility from the IMF. The first phase of the structural adjustment
program called for wide-ranging reforms in planning and programing,
institutions, and incentives. Public investment was curtailed and redi-
rected toward productive projects; public enterprises, particularly in
agriculture, were reorganized to make them more efficient, and the price,
subsidy and tariff systems were progressively overhauled to restore the
growth of output in both agriculture and industry. The Bank made a
US$150.0 million loan in December 1981 in support of this first phase of
the structural adjustment program.
6.        Between 1980 and 1983 the Government succeeded in reducing the
public sector and current account deficits despite four unfavorable
factors beyond the authorities' control. First, the terms of trade
declined by a further 14% during this period and were, in 1983, some 401
lower than in 1977. Second, the world recession has proven to be deeper
and longer than was originally expected, reducing the demand for Ivory
Coast's exports, while higher interest rates increased the debt service
burden. Third, the development of domestic oil production was not as
rapid as previously expected as it reached a level of only 1.1 million
tons a year in 1983. Finally, rainfall was far below average in 1983.
7.        The first objective of the financial recovery program had been
to reduce the public sector deficit, which is at the root of present
external imbalances. This deficit declined from 12.7% of GDP in 1980 to
10.9% in 1983, before taking into account debt amortization. Under the
program, the trend of rapid expansion of current expenditure has been
substantially slowed; implementation of a strict recruitment and wage
policy, cuts in direct and indirect consumer subsidies, and improved
financial control of parastatals enabled the Government to reduce the
current budget by about 2% in real terms; capital expenditures have been
curtailed by more than 25% in real terms during this period by cancelling
or postponing expensive non-priority projects.
8.        The balance of payments current account deficit declined from
16.7% of GDP in 1980 to 13.8% in 1983. Despite the deterioration in the
terms of trade, the trade surplus increased from 5.0% to 9.5% of GDP.
This was mainly due to a reduction of imports, which declined from 41.21
to 36.2% of GDP following the slowdown of the economy and the development
of local oil production. The decline by about one-fourth in the real
effective exchange rate during this period was also an important factor in
the improvement of the trade account of the balance of payments. However,



- 4 -
the rapid rise of interest payments on public debt, which more than
triplId in CFAF terms from 1980 to 1983 and accounted for 8.1Z of GDP in
1983, reduced the impact of this improvement on the current account. The
debt service ratio rose from 33.42 in 1980 to 36.8% in 1983 because of
high interest rates, slow growth in export receipts, and the large in-
crease of foreign borrowing required to finance the public sector deficit.
During the same period the external debt outstanding increased from 45% to
80% of GDP.
9.        These budgetary and monetary policies have contributed to a
marked slowdown in the economy. For the first time since 1960, the
country experienced a decline in national income. G!)P in real terms
declined by 8.1% between 1980 and 1983 compared with a 6.1% average annual
increase during the four previous years. This represents a 20% decline
per capita over these three years to about US$720 per capita in 1983. The
secondary sector has been the most severely hit by the recession with
value added falling by 20.0% in the aggregate during this period and by
more than 50% in the case of the construction and public works subsector
which depends heavily on public investment. Inflation, measured by the
consumer price index, was about 11.3%, the average since 1980, the impact
of the activity slowdown and the restrictive monetary policy being
counterbalanced by the increase in import prices and the effect of fiscal
measures.
The Present Economic Situation
10.       The economic and financial situation of the Ivory Coast further
deteriorated in the second half of 1983 as a consequence of the worst
climatic conditions since independence and a sharp reduction in foreign
borrowing. The impact of the 1983 drought and related bush fires is
estimated to correspond to a 4% decline in GDP. Coffee production fell by
two-thirds compared with its 1982/83 level while the reduction in elec-
tricity supply by about 30Z following the drying up of the reservoirs
induced the implementation of a severe load-shedding plan. Hydroelectric
plants generated about 85% of electricity in previous years, but only
about 60% in 1983. The effect of the drought on the energy sector alone
increased the public sector and balance of payments deficits by the
equivalent of 1.5% of GDP. In the second half of 1983, public arrears
increased rapidly, and represented 10.9% of GDP at the end of the year.
In order to avoid a liquidity crisis the Ivorian authorities decided to
intensify their financial recovery and economic adjuatment programs and to
request a rescheduling of public external debt service payments due in the
25 month period starting December 1, 1983. Members of the Paris Club
agreed to reschedule 100% of principal and 50% of interest payments
falling due until the end of 1984 and signed a goodwill clause for
rescheduling debt service due in 1985. Private creditors of the London
Club rescheduled 100% of the principal due during the 13 months period and
agreed, in principle, to reschedule 90% of the principal to be repaid in
1985. These creditors also agreed in this context, and for the first time
in Sub-Saharan Africa, to make a US$120 million loan for balance of
payments support in 1984.
11.       A much intensified financial recovery program was implemented in
1984. It aimed at avoiding further deterioration in Ivory Coast's



- 5 -
external creditworthiness and at slharply reducing external and internal
imbalances. It was supported by the IMF with a SDR 82.75 million one-year
stand-by agreement. This program aimed to reduce the public sector
deficit from 10.4% to 4% of CDP and the current account deficit from 13.1%
to 7% of (.DP. Government payment arrears were to be cut by 60% and, after
taking into account the impact of the debt rescheduling, the overall
balance of payments was expected to be in equilibrium. To achieve these
objectives a series of tough stabilization measures was implemented. They
include a freeze on Government's current expenditures in nominal terms, a
further cut in public investment, large increases in electricity and
railroad tariffs, prices of petroleum products, and water charges, a
reduction in civil service enrollments and technical assistance, and a
reform in scholarship policy. Improvement in the financial situation of
the public sector should also stem from a large increase in receipts by
the CSSPPA resulting from firm world prices for coffee and cocoa and
drawing on stocks accumulated in previous years.
12.       The second SAL of US$250.7 million approved by the Board in July
1983 supports implementation of policy measures aimed at: (a) further
improvements of public finance management and investment policy, (b)
rehabilitation of parastatal enterprises and improvement of their
management, (c) additional improvements in the agricultural incentive
system, (d) resumption of industrial growth through reduction of the
excessive levels of protection and removal of distortions in incentives,
and (e) substantial reform of housing policy through a reduction of public
subsidies, enhancement of private savings mobilization, and a shift in
housing investment from the public to the private sector. The public
investment program has been further curtailed and redirected toward
productive sectors, while projects with low rates of return have been
postponed or placed on a list of non-priority projects to be started only
if borrowing on very soft terms can be secured. Substantial progress was
also made in the continued rehabilitation of parastatal enterprises. The
program of management studies and its follow-up is being progressively
implemented, albeit with some delays from the original schedule. A
monitoring system based on synoptic tables (tableaux de bord) has been
introduced in the transportation and telecommunications sectors, and the
first program-contrat has been signed with SOTRA, the Abidjan mass transit
enterprise. The situation of PALMINDUSTRIE, the oil palm company,
involved in the proposed project has already much improved and the
implementation of the restructuring program of SODESUCRE, the sugar
company, has begun with the closure of the two least efficient sugar
complexes. Rehabilitation programs for the petroleum refinery (SIR), the
railway company (RAN) and the telecommunication sector have also been
initiated. Producer prices of all major crops have been substantially
increased, the consumer price of rice has been raised by 23% and the
fertilizer subsidy has been eliminated. Although these increases in
producer prices only partially offset the impact of the depreciation of
the CFAF, they contributed to alleviating the impact of the drought on
farmers, the poorest segment of the population. The first phase of the
fundamental reform of the incentive system in the manufacturing sector
covers more than 50% of industrial output. It includes a revision in
import duties to harmonize effective protection, the replacement of
quantitative restrictions by temporary import surcharges on a declining
scale, and export subsidies, the adoption of a new investment code and
improvement in the fiscal system. Important progress has also been made



-6-
in implementing the housing policy reform. The land tax and civil servant
housing policies have been improved while the land development agency is
being restructured and is introducing a system of full cost recovery for
its new developments. The Government has decided to proceed with a
gradual liquidation of the assets of SOGEFIHA, the largest public housing
agency. In the light of these satisfactory developments the Second
Tranche of SAL II was released in July 1984.
Medium and Long-term Economic Prospects
13.       Over the remainder of the decade, the evolution of the Ivory
Coast economy will stay critically dependent on public finance and balance
of payments constraints. As is typical in a country undergoing a
rescheduling of its external debt, the challenge will be to maintain
sufficient monetary and fiscal discipline and to generate the foreign
exchange required to withstand the transition to the post-rescheduling
period, when deferred debt service payments will have to be met. This
transition period will be difficult as payments on external debt are
projected to increase sharply following two years of rescheduling in 1984
and 1985, and as the necessary increase in production of tradeables for
exports and for efficient import substitution is likely to materialize
only gradually over the rest of the decade. The necessary continuation of
tight fiscal and monetary policies along with substantial improvements in
the quality of the public investment program and further implementation of
agricultural and industrial incentive reforms, are expected to enable a
resumption of GDP growth in real terms at an average annual rate _f 3.7Z
over the 1985-95 period.
14.       The public sector deficit is expected to decline in 1985.
Nevertheless, conditions are expected to remain very tight in the Ivory
Coast for a number of years. Continued monetary and fiscal discipline and
intensification of the structural adjustment program will be required if
the stabilization is to be consolidated and the conditions for resumed
growth are to be re-established. We are closely monitoring economic
developments in the Ivory Coast and a new economic report is presently
under preparation.
15.       Of the US$5,200 million external public debt outstanding at the
end of 1983, 15% was provided bilaterally by governments, 21% by
international aid agencies (of which 69.9% by the Bank Group), and 55% by
private banks and bond issues, while 9.1% came in the form of suppliers
credit. About 75% of the total capital not supplied by international aid
agencies came from four channels: internationally syndicated loans
(33.3%), France (29.1%), USA (11%) and Lebanon (5.6%). France and the
European Communities remain the principal sources of development
assistance in grant form, accounting for about 1% of the flow of foreign
assistance to the public sector.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
16.       Since 1968, when Bank Group operations in the Ivory Coast
started, lending has expanded rapidly and now includes fifty-two



operations totalling US$1,486.6 million, including US$14 million from the
Third Window, and an IDA credit of US$7.5 million. Of these, eighteen
have been for agriculture, supporting cotton, cocoa, rubber, forestry, oil
palm and coconut development, and rural development in the North-East
Savannah and Center-West regions. There were six road projects and two
highway sector projects. The remaining twenty-six loans were for
education, telecommunications, the Abidjan sewerage and drainage system,
water supply, urban development, petroleum exploration and development,
power distribution, tourism development, small- and medium-scale
enterprises, a regional cement project, a regional railway project,
structural adjustment and related technical assistance and most recently,
for an Industrial Finance and Development and a Health and Demographic
project. IFC has supported textile, fertilizers, flour milling,
development banking, and agricultural plantation operations in the
country. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations.
In general, implementation of Bank projects has been satisfactory and has
improved substantially over the past five years. The disbursement ratio
has risen from 15.2% in 1977 to 37.2Z in 1982. The 1983 Ivory Coast
disbursement ratio of 33.1% compares very favorably with the Bank-wide
average of 23.4% and with ratios for comparable countries such as Tunisia
(15.5%), Cameroon (24.9Z) or Kenya (16.2%) for the same year.
17.      The Bank's first two structural adjustment loans approved in
FY82 and FY84, respectively, supported the Government's program of firm
measures to adjust the economy to the deteriorating international
environment and to lay the basis for future growth. They reflect the
close and frank dialogue on economic policy between the Bank and the Ivory
Coast. Implementation of the initial stages of the structural adjustment
program has led to the development of longer-term rehabilitation and
reform programs for several sub-sectors and key public enterprises, which
are now at the project preparation stage. The external environment in
which the Ivory Coast has pursued its initial adjustment efforts since
1981 has been much less favorable than was anticipated. The economy is
likely to remain vulnerable to public finance and balance of payments
constraints and to require sustained adjustment efforts. A third phase of
the Government's continuing program of structural change is being
prepared.
18.      Bank operations in agriculture have been in support of the
Government's policy of crop diversification, promotion of exports, and
increased emphasis on developing smallholder production. The most recent
project approved by the Board is a Health and Demographic Project. In the
near future, the Bank is considering assisting the Government in
rehabilitating the sugar subsector, and providing further assistance to
the oil-palm and rubber sub-sectors, as well as for improved systems of
extension and research. Thus far, the Bank Group has financed six road
projects totalling US$123.3 million, a railway project, and two highway
sector operations; the US$110 million Second Highway Sector Project,
approved in June 1985, helps to finance the country's sector investment
program through 1988.
19.      The Bank has been closely associated with the Government's
efforts to modernize the education system, in particular at the primary,
secondary, and vocational levels, through three education projects. A
fourth, focusing on rehabilitation and cost reduction, is under



preparation. The two Abidjan sewerage and drainage projects, approved in
FY75 and FY78, cover the first phases of a Government program to improve
sanitation in Abidjan. The two urban development projects approved in
FY77 and FY82 aimed at helping to meet some of Abidjan's low-income
housing and transport needs and at assisting Government in carrying out
its regional development policy of shifting rapid urban growth from the
capital city to regional centers. These actions have been complemented by
two water supply projects. In the enery sector, a First Power Project was
approved in July 1980 to finance power distribution facilities and
technical assistance, and a Petroleum Exploration and Development Project
for offshore hydrocarbons was approved in June 1982. A project to develop
offshore gas reserves is also being studied.
20.       In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and management
in the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Governmcilt is placing
high priority on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of this
policy, the Bank extended a loan for the promotion of small-scale
enterprises in FY76, which has been followed by an artisans, small- and
medium-scale enterprise project approved in March 1979, and two lines of
credit for hotel financing and technical assistance in the tourism sector.
The industrial sector is now undergoing major changes in its policy
environment as part of the country's adjustment program. An Industrial
Finance and Development project, to assist existing enterprises in
adapting to the reformed environment, was submitted recently to the Board.
In June 1976, the Bank also extended a loan to the Ivory Coast in support
of the CIMAO project, the clinker production plant located in Togo and
owned jointly by the Governments of Ghana, Ivory Coast and Togo.
21.      The Bank Group's lending in the Ivory Coast has increased
steadily from a yearly average of below US$20 million during the early
years to an average of US$164.8 million annually in the FY80-84 period.
The average annual lending rate is expected to continue to grow over the
next few years. The Bank Group's share of the Ivory Coastts external debt
is expected to rise from the present 17.4% to about 26% by 1995; its share
of total debt service is expected to rise from 15.3% at present to about
17.5% by 1990.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Overview
22.      Agriculture will remain a predominant factor of economic growth
in the Ivory Coast during the next decade. Given the presently
constrained macroeconomic environment, resumption of sustained economic
growth is critically ce2endent on a shift in incentives and income in
favor of the agricultural sector, where the Ivory Coast has clear
comparative advantages. As a result, the Bank's ongoing dialogue with the
Ivorian authorities is focusing on reforms in pricing policies that would
bring producer prices in the sector in line with world prices.
23.       Cocoa and coffee (respectively 23% and 5% of the world market
supply) continue to dominate the agricultural economy. Together, they



- 9 -
account for 75 Z of the total foreign exchanpe earnings of the sector,
which itself accounts for just over half of all merchandise exports (Annex
1, Table 3b). These two main crops continue to represent 90% of the
ann'tal new tree crop plantings (80,000 ha.), although, since 1960, a
number of other cash crops such as oil palm, coconuts, rubber, cotton, and
sugar have been encouraged. The bulk of agricultural production still
comes from some 900,000 smallholder farms. A significant role in the
agricultural labor force (which accounts for close to 80% of the national
labor force) is played by low-cost migrant labor from sahelian countries:
although data are hard to come by, about a quarter of the national labor
force is non-Ivorian, and the proportion is considerably higher in the
rural areas.
24.       Ivory Coast's favorable growth performance during the 1960s and
early 1970s was largely based on the development of export crops of
coffee, cocoa and timber, by (a) exploiting of favorable world markets;
(b) establishing an appropriate extension and research infrastructure
under the coordination of well-staffed development agencies; and (eJ
stimulating the adoption of new cash crops by realistic producer price
policy. Beginning in the mid-1970s, however, agricultural development
agencies became less efficient with (a) growing fixed costs and heavy
staff budgets; (b) the marketing of the crops for which they were
responsible being turned over to separate Government agencies; and (c)
generally, an increasing remoteness from the vital innovations stemming
from the research agencies. Finally, investments in the agricult.ral
sector continued to lag, and accounted for only about 19% of all public
investments by 1984.
25.       Against this background, the Government announced a new
orientation for its agricultural development in 1980. Its princit2l
objectives included (i) emphasis on export crop diversification to ensure
an improved stability in export earnings; (ii) a search for ways to
achieve self-sufficiency in food crops; (iii) promotion of smallholder
agriculture and encouragement to young farmers to remain on the land,
through improved productivity incentives and the introduction of more
modern agricultural production techniques, including mechanization; and
(iv) encouragement of the agricultural cooperative movement. This new
policy was to be accompanied by a harmonization of price, tax and subsidy
policies, credit reform and a reorganization of development agencies with
a view to providing the farmers with more direct participation in the
development process. Although half a decade has elapsed since this policy
has been introduced, the problems of the Ivorian economy have been so
overwhelming that the full impact of this new orientation has still to
make itself felt.
The Oil Palm Subsector
26.       The oil palm subsector generates not only a key food item but
also a major crop which ranks fourth among the country's main agricultural
products after coffee, cocoa, and forestry. It provides a living to some
200,000 people, or 5% of those employed in agriculture. Following
successful research by the Oils and Fats Research Institute (IRHO), taking
advantage of the favorable climatic conditions of Ivory Coast for the
cultivation of the oil palm, several oil palm industrial plantations were
created along the coastal strip from the mid-1960s onwards. This took



- 10 -
place under the general impetus of the First Oil Palm Plan, and
specifically, following the creation of the Oil Palm Development
Corporation (SODEPALM). The creation of smallholder plantings around the
industrial plantations started in 1966-69 and continued at a slightly
lower rate thereafter until 1976 when a new surge in smallholder planting
began. Due to internal problems of PALMINDUSTRIE (para. 30), the
successor to SODEPALM, this expansion was short-lived lasting only to 1978
after which planting ceased until 1983. An accelerated program of
smallholder plantings has now become necessary as the direct consequence
of this setback in the rate of planting.
27.       At present, the total planted area of PALMINDUSTRIE of oil palm
consists of 89,800 ha, including about 10,000 smallholder plantings
covering approximately 38,000 ha. Palm oil production in 1983/84 was
approximately 146,000 tons, of which some 25-30,000 tons were exported.
The subsector, which has proven technical viability and attractive
economic returns, has potential for assisting long-term economic growth by
diversifying the production base beyond the current heavy reliance on
cocoa and coffee. The Government in collaboration with PALMINDUSTRIE has
decided to carry out a study to formulate an investment strategy for the
oil palm and coconut sub-sectors and intends to cooperate closely with the
Bank and other co-lenders on said strategy formulation, both during
project implementation and thereafter.
28.       The oil palm subsector falls into three groups:  (i) PALM-
INDUSTRIE which operates nine nucleus estates/agro-industrial complexes
averaging 6,000 ha per complex and produces crude palm oil and kernel oil,
and a few other large plantations which however operate on a much smaller
scale; (ii) small and medium-sized plantations of outgrowers which sell
their fresh fruit bunches (FFB) to PALMINDUSTRIE; and (iii) a local
processing industry which purchases the raw material from PALMINDUSTRIE
and produces refined palm oil and soap stock derivatives.
29.       Until April 1983 the Agricultural Export Stabilisation Fund
(CSSPPA) was responsible for the marketing of PALMINDUSTRIE's output and
sold the products on the export market or to the local processing industry
at a slight discount. CSSPPA surrendered to PALMINDUSTRIE part of the
sales revenue which was sufficient only to cover operating costs and
services provided to smallholders. With Bank support in the context of
SAL II, marketing responsibility was transferred by Government to
PALMINDUSTRIE. However, PALMINDUSTRIE's sales to the domestic market have
been based on a domestic price fixed by the Government which was, during
the last two years, between 10 and 402 below world prices. The price of
raw palm oil to the domestic refiner is fixed at the beginning of each
season according to a formula which takes into account not only past world
prices of palm oil, but also domestic inflation. As a consequence, in
periods when domestic inflation is higher than the evolution of palm oil
prices on international markets, the formula could result in a degree of
protection unrelated to the long-term comparative advantage of the crop,
and conversely, as is the case at present, the formula results in domestic
prices well below world prices over an extended period. The distortion in
the system of incentives in the subsector is further aggravated by the
fact that PALMINDUSTRIE pays value-added tax on its intermediate inputs
without being allowed to recoup this tax on its sales despite the
extension of the VAT system to the oil palm sector agreed under SAL II.



- 11 -
The differential between domestic and export prices for crude palm oil has
caused a conflict of interest between PALMINDUSTRIE and the local
processing industry. The higher export price for crude palm oil provides
an incentive to PALMINDUSTRIE to sell in the export market instead of to
the local industry. Since 1983 the processing industry's purchases from
PALNINDUSTRIE have been subject to negotiated quotas of about 80% of
quantities purchased prior to introduction of quotas. The differential
between domestic and export market prices has in addition caused a
speculative demand of individual exporters purchasing crude palm oil from
PALMIEDUSTRIE for sale in the export market at the higher world price. As
to refined palm oil, the wholesale price is substantially above world
market levels which are, however, artificially low due to large supplies
of subsidized refined palm oil from south-east Asian countries. The
wholesale price of refined palm oil has in the period 1970 to 1984 been
about 15-20% above a notional world price of refined palm oil calculated
from the crude palm oil price. These pricing distorLions and their
resolution are being addressed under this project and through the on-going
macroeconomic dialogue between the Bank and the Ivorian authorities
(paras. 63 to 64).
Institutions
30.       PALMINDUSTRIE  is a State Corporation responsible for developing
the oil palm and coconut sub-sectors and the marketing of its primary
products. At present, it employs about 14,500 persons; 41 of whom are
expatriate staff, 31 being directly employed and 10 provided through
technical assistance contracts with UNIPLANT, a consortium of three French
and Belgium plantation companies, and IRHO. PALMINDUSTRIE in its present
form is the result of 15 years of almost continuous restructurings in the
industry, which, as pointed out in a recent evaluation by OED (OED-Report
No. 5072, 1984) have had a very damaging cumulative effect on the manage-
ment and financial performance of the oil palm and coconut industries and
on the morale and quality of the staff. Transfer of the marketing
function to CSSPPA in 1975 was a major cause of the financial difficulties
which subsequently arose since surpluses were not used on a priority basis
to meet the corporation's financing needs. Over the 1975-82 period,
PALMINDUSTRIE's financial position deteriorated seriously. The return of
marketing responsibility to PALMINDUSTRIE in 1983 in the context of the
Government's new agricultural development orientation (para. 25), the
change in top management and the provision by UNIPLANT and IRHO of
management staff under technical assistance contracts were major factors
in the improvement of PALMINDUSTRIE's performance. Assurances have been
obtained from the Government and PALHINDUSTRIE that PALMINDUSTRIE would
consult with the Bank prior to making any substantial changes in its
management structure and that it would not terminate, suspend or amend the
terms and conditions of employment of UNIPLANT and IRHO personnel without
the prior agreement of the Bank.
31.       In connection with plans for privatization that are an important
part of its structural reform process, the Government is considering
converting PALMINDUSTRIE into a Joint Public/Private Enterprise which
would allow private participation in its equity. However, PALMINDUSTRIE
has only recently begun to perform satisfactorily in financial terms and
it will have to show consistently positive reaults over several years
before private investors could be expected to take a substantial interest



- 12 -
in participation. A major priority, therefore, is to create conditions
conducive to further privatization while addressing the most pressing
need, the implementation of a planting program to cover domestic vegetable
oil requirements. This would be done by further strengthening PALM-
INDUSTRIE's financial and managerial position and by improving its
profitability (para. 47). It has been agreed with the Government and
PALMINDUSTRIE that any substantial modification in PALMINDUSTRIE's
management or shareholder structure would be subject to prior Bank
approval.
32.       Recent PALMINDUSTRIE Performance.  During the last three years,
following improved management and financial control, PALMINDUSTRIE's
revenues and net earnings have increased, as shown below:
PALMINDUSTRIE Revenue and Net Earnings
(CFAF billion)
1980      1981      1982       1983       1984
Revenue              22.6       18.2      22.7       27.1      57.6
Net earnings (loss)  (9.3)       0.2       0.9        0.9       9.2
In 1984, PALMINDUSTRIE sold 352 of its palm oil on the world market at an
average price of CFAF 332,800/mt. If the entire production had been sold
at this price the increase in PALMINDUSTRIE's net earnings would have been
CFAF 10.7 billion. Also in 1984, additional charges to operations
amounted to CFAF 19.5 billion due among others to the adoption of a more
conservative depreciation policy and the recognition of exchange rate
losses to date. Recent planting performance has been satisfactory as in
1983 and 1984, PALMINDUSTRIE achieved without difficulty planting programs
of about 3,600 and 5,500 ha, respectively (including both smallholdings
and industrial plantations) in a project financed by the European
Development Fund (EDF).
33.       Smallholders and Medium-sized Plantations.  In addition to oil
palm industrial plantations, PALMINDUSTRIE has a major role in the
operation and expansion of the smallholder program, at present accounting
for 40% of the total area planted with oil palm. Some 2,000 ha of
previously abandoned smallholdings are being rehabilitated under the
supervision of PALMINDUSTRIE's extension service. However, the
smallholder extension service is weak in terms of the regularity of farm
visits, the diffusion of technical messages and the training of extension
agents. As a result average yields (6 tons/ha) are less than those
achieved on the estates (10 tons/ha) although this lower yield also
reflects some direct sales of oil palm fruit in the local markets. To
improve this situation, the extension services would be strengthened
during the implementation of the project (para. 47). So as to channel
private Ivorian investment into the oil palm subsector, the Government
also wishes to promote, as does PALMINDUSTRIE in order to obtain an
additional source of supply, medium-sized plantations of between 50 and
150 ha. A pilot scheme is envisaged under the project (para. 45), to
encourage private investment and entrepreneurial initiative, and to
build-up an efficient medium-sized pi mtation subsector in view of the
limited land available for larger industrial plantations.



- 13 -
34.       The Expansion and Replanting Fund (FER).  The Expansion and
Replanting Fund (FER) was created in 1964 to provide short-, medium- and
long-term financing for the production or processing of oil palm and
coconut products, including both industrial and smallholder plantings.
FER financing has been used for social infrastructure on PALMINDUSTRIE
industrial plantations and establishment and maintenance of smallholder
and industrial plantations of oil palm and coconut. In the past, interest
rates charged by FER were determined on an ad hoc basis and generally at
subsidized levels. Present policy is that FER passes funds on at the same
interest rate as it obtains them. Operations by FER, which have thus far
been small, are overseen by a Management Committee, composed of
representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, Finance and Planning.
To date, the majority of FER's transactions have been with PALMINDUSTRIE
and repayment of loans to PER are on schedule. However, while a running
account of PER's operations is being maintained in the Ministry of
Agriculture, and PER's liquidity position with current assets of CFAF 260
million (US$531,000 equivalent) was satisfactory at end 1983 (the latest
data available), the existing accounting system and the organizational,
management and operating arrangements need to be improved.
35.       The Government intends to endow FER with a legal status which
would allow the Government to onlend externally raised funds to FER and
allow FER to build up reserves. Under the future legal structure PER
would be maintained as a small, simple organization linked with
PALMINDUSTRIE but independent in its administration and accounting.
Establishment of PER under new statutes satisfactory to the Bank would be
a condition of loan effectiveness. In addition, the Government has agreed
that it would not dissolve or disestablish FER or suspend its operations
without prior discussion and approval of the Bank.
Experience with Past Lending
36.       Between 1960 and 1978, the Bank extended seven loans to the
development program of the oil palm and coconut subsector in the Ivory
Coast, totalling US$ 46.7 million. The flrst three Bank loans (totalling
US$17.1 million) were extended concurrently in 1969 to a joint venture of
three associated companies (SODEPALM, PALMINDUSTRIE and PALMIVOIRE - also
named "the Participation") each responsible for different components of
the first Oil and Coconut Project (including development of outgrowers and
estate plantations, and oil mill construction). SODEPALM, PALMINDUSTRIE
and PALMIVOIRE were linked by contract but legally independent entities
with separate accounts, hence the need to make separate loans. PALMIVOIRE
was responsible for the management of both PALMINDUSTRIE (oil mills) and
SODEPALM's industrial oil palm estates, while SODEPALM was solely
responsible for the outgrower's component. The second project was
supported by two Bank loans (totalling US$7.0 million) extended to the
same joint venture and continued the planting and mill construction
program. The third and fourth projects were financed by two single loans
(totalling US$22.6 million) extended to SODEPALM/PALMIVOIRE and SODEPALM
in 1974, and 1977, respectively. The legal structure and responsibilities
of the above companies were changed subsequently (para. 30). The oil palm
and coconut development program was substantially cofinanced by CCCE with
18 operations totalling US$ 48.6 million equivalent. In addition to the
Bank and CCCE loans, which accounted for approximately 60 Z of all foreign
aid for the program, EDF has been financing smallholder plantations and is



- 14 -
currently contributing about US$ 8.0 million equivalent to the financing
of a three year project (1984-86) aimed at replanting and expanding of
12,000 ha of both industrial oil palm plantations and smallholdings. An
OED "Impact Evaluation Report" (No.5072 of May 7, 1984) on the Ivory Coast
Palm Oil and Coconut Development Projects states that the major objectives
of this program, namely diversification of agricultural production and
satisfaction of the domestic demand for oils and fats, have been
accomplished. However, some aspects of the past projects were considered
less successful, in particular the difficulties encountered by the
restructuring of PALMINDUSTRIE and the more limited participation of
smallholders than was anticipated (para. 43). Moreover, droughts in the
1970s had adverse consequences on yields. Part of the problems associated
with the institutional restructurings have now been resolved and would be
further addressed by the proposed project. In addition, since 1983,
PALMINDUSTRIE has established much stricter rules for farmer selection,
while higher prices and bonus incentives for quality have resulted in some
improvement in the maintenance of smallholder plantations.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
37.       The Bank's SAL operations and sectoral discussion with the Ivory
Coast bave contributed to major changes in the oil palm subsector, which
resulted in a marked improvement in the financial position of
PALMINDUSTRIE, the restoration of its marketing function, strengthening of
its management and price increases. Together with the assistance provided
by other aid institutions, the proposed Bank intervention would assist
PALMINDUSTRIE in consolidating the institutional and pricing reforms. The
project would also be a useful vehicle for the dialogue with the Ivory
Coast on the development of a long-term strategy for the subsector and to
ensure continued compatibility between agricultural and industrial
policies in a leading area of agro-industrial activity.
IV.   THE PROJECT
38.       The project was identified in 1981 and subsequently prepared by
PALMINDUSTRIE and the Ministry of Agriculture using the PPF for specific
studies including soil and topographic surveys for the purpose of oil palm
plantation expansion. Appraisal took place in October/November 1984.
Negotiations were held in Washington from July 23 to 29, 1985. The Ivory
Coast delegation was led by Mr. N'Golo Coulibaly, Director of Public Debt
at the Debt Amortization Fund (CAA). The Staff Appraisal Report (No.5521-
IVC, dated September 23, 1985) entitled "Ivory Coast". Fifth Oil Palm
Development Project" is being circulated separately. Annex III contains a
Supplementary Project Data Sheet. A map showing the project location is
attached.
39.       Project Objectives.  The major objectives of the proposed
project are to meet the rapidly increasing demand for fats and oils both
through replacement of existing oil palm plantings and development of new
plantings in selected areas of smallholdings, medium-sized plantations and
industrial plantations and to increase the potential for exports of crude
and refined palm oil. The strengthening and expansion of the oil palm
subsector would also contribute to the necessary agricultural



- 15 -
diversification efforts of Government. Furthermore, as a tree crop which
can be grown economically by both industrial plantations and outgrowers,
oil palm would contribute to ongoing efforts to maintain the country's
tree cover.
40.       Project Description.  The project would finance a five-year
planting program and expansion of the oil palm processing capacity. It
would consist of the following components:
(a) development at 4 locations by PALMINDUSTRIE of 11,600 ha of
new industrial oil palm plantations and replanting of about
15,000 ha of ageing industrial oil palm plantations spread
over the entire PALMINDUSTRIE area;
(b) development of smallholder oil palm plantings through
expansion and replanting of existing areas by about 29,100
ha and new planting of 6,900 ha;
(c) establishment of a pilot scheme of medium-sized private oil
palm plantations, amounting to 2.100 ha;
*d) construction of two palm oil mills with eventual capacities
each of 40 tons FFB/hour;
(e) a study of alternative effluent treatment systems and
installation of an effluent treatment prototype system at
an existing oil mill and of an effluent prototype digestor
at Ehania.
Cf) support for accompanying research on oil palm agronomy and
pathology; and
(g) technical assista ce to PALMINDUSTRIE for project implemen-
tation, the evaluation of project progress, and the
development of a training program.
Project Implementation
41.       The project would be located in the tropical forest zone of
southern Ivory Coast. New plantings would be mostly confined to the
south-eastern and south-western parts of the country, which are well
suited to oil palm development.
42.       Industrial Plantations.  The replanting program of 15,000 ha of
ageing industrial plantations, which is part of an overall program drawn
up by PALMINDUSTRIE for the next 25 years, would cover a backlog in
replanting incurred during the period 1977-81. The program would also
include densification of some plantations to increase the capacity
utilization of existing oil mills in these areas. New industrial
plantings would be concentrated at two sites in the south-west (6.000 ha
at Neka and 3,000 ha at Blidouba) and in the center (2.000 ha at North
Tamabo and 600 ha at Bolo).



- 16 -
43.       Smallholder Plantings.  Replanting would cover about 29,000 ha
of existing smallholder plantings. New plantings over 6,900 ha would be
carried out at Ehania, Dabou, North Tamabo, Blidouba and Neka.
Smallholder demand for oil palms is high as is demonstrated by the large
number of applications received by PALMINDUSTRIE and the satisfactory
condition of the 1983/84 plantings, and is enhanced by the ageing of cocoa
plantings and their relatively poor performance and vulnerability to
disease in areas more suited to oil palm plantings. Some 8,000
smallholders would participate in the program. About half would be
participants in previous projects, whose performance is considered
satisfactory, and who would be receiving up to 3 ha for new oil palm
plantings, so as to bring their holdings up to 6 ha (in accordance with
Government policy). New smallholders would receive 6 ha spread over 3 to
4 years provided their performance continues to be satisfactory.
Smallholders would be selected on the basis of criteria, which would take
into account the observations made in the OED-Report (para. 36). and which
would include age, land tenure, family composition, availability of labor,
presence on the holding, distance from the oil mills (at most 20 km) and
suitability of soil and terrain. Participants would sign a standard
agreement with PALMINDUSTRIE under which PALMINDUSTRIE would be
responsible for the extension services and inputs, and the collection of
and payment for FFB. Smallholders would clear their lots and provide
their own labor and tools.
44.       The new industrial and smallholder plantings at Blidouba and
Neka would be located near the road between Neka and San Pedro, which has
a port with palm oil bulking facilities. The road is being rehabilitated
under the First Highway Sector Loan, and would be further improved under
the Second Sector Loan. Because of the importance of this road for the
project, agreements have been reached that the Government would maintain
this road in a condition which would allow unhampered and efficient
transport of produce from the above oil plantations.
45.       Medium-Sized Plantations.  Medium-sized plantations totalling
6,600 ha of between 50 and 150 ha each would be established at Blidouba,
Neka and North Tamabo. However, since this type of plantation has not yet
been implemented on a large scale, the program would be carried out in two
phases, the first involving a pilot program of about 15 to 20 planters and
covering about 2,100 ha over 3 years, to be followed by an in-depth review
in late 1988. Completion of the program would be conditional upon
efficient establishment and development of these plantations. The second
phase is not included in the project, but CCCE would be prepared to
consider providing additional financing should the pilot program prove
successful. Prospective candidates for medium-sized plantations would be
established private investors seeking investment opportunities in
organized areas of the rural sector, retired civil servants interested in
farming, young agricultural graduates and groups of smallholders. Each
prospective owner would be requested to submit a project plan and would be
required to meet criteria which would include availability of at least 50
ha of suitable land, a satisfactory land title, employment of a suitable
manager, ability to provide 25 % of total establishment and development
costs for each area, and a maximum distance of 20 km from the oil mill in
the area. Successful candidates would sign a development contract with
PALMINDUSTRIE the model of which is satisfactory to the Bank.  Unlike the
smallholder plantings, the medium-sized plantations would be expected to



- 17 -
be independent entities with their own harvest and transport equipment and
their own social and housing facilities for staff and labor.
PALMINDUSTRIE would supply inputs and technical advice, collect FFB at the
farm or at the mill gate, and process the produce at PALMINDUSTRIE oil
mills. A feasibility study on the development of these plantations has
been carried out by PALMINDUSTRIE and is satisfactory to the Bank.
46.       For the areas where new plantings are envisaged (Blidouba and
Neka), PALMINDUSTRIE has been negotiating land rights with both the
Government and the local population. At North Tamabo, the land has
already been allocated for use by the Forestry Plantation Development
Corporation (SODEFOR). Arrangements for transfer of these rights from
SODEFOR to PALMINDUSTRIE are required. PALKINDUSTRIE has provided
documentation satisfactory to the Bank, demonstrating for each land area
(i) the status of occupation; (ii) the rates of compensation to be
provided in the event of acquisition; and (iii) evidence that the land is
available for use by PALMINDUSTRIE.
47.       PALMINDUSTRIE would execute the project under the overall
responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture. During the past four
years, PALMINDUSTRIE has created a headquarter structure with a
satisfactory capacity for planning, direction, support, and control. The
maintenance of this structure during the project would be secured through
further development and refining of PALMINDUSTRIE's management system
under a Management Development Plan/Action Program (Annex IV), comprising
improved management information and cost control systems for industrial
plantations, improved extension services for smallholders, review of
further decentralization measures, preparation of a comprehensive set of
personnel policies, including further Ivorianization, and review of
training needs and the preparation of a training program. Assurances have
been obtained from PALMINDUSTRIE that the Action Program would be
implemented in accordance with an agreed timetable. Field implementation
would take place through PALMINDUSTRIE's agro-industrial complexes, which
are operating satisfactorily. To carry out and maintain the industrial
plantings a well-trained and healthy labor force is required. For tais
purpose, PALMINDUSTRIE has in past projects continued to improve the
living conditions of the labor force to a generally satisfactory level.
The housing program currently accomodates 12,000 workers and the project
would add another 1,000 houses of various types. Moreover, hospital
service, dispensaries, markets, social venues and education are provided
by PALMINDUSTRIE. The medium-sized plantings would be arranged by the
owners themselves. The smallholder plantings would be carried out by the
smallholders under the supervision of PALMINDUSTRIE's extension services.
In addition, two visiting advisers (one agricultural and one financial)
would be employed to evaluate project progress at regular intervals and to
assess PALMINDUSTRIE's financial performance; they would report their
findings to the Board of Directors of PALMINDUSTRIE. The recent
experience with the EDF-financed smallholder program has adequately
prepared PALMINDUSTRIE to launch a smallholder program of the magnitude
envisaged under the project (para. 32).
48.       Oil Mill Construction and Environmental Impact.  Two new oil
mills - to be financed by the European Investment Bank (EIB) - of
eventually 40 tons FFB/hour capacity and equipped with effluent disposal
systems would be established at Blidouba and Neka. Construction of the



- 18 -
first phase of 20 tons would start in 1988 and be completed by 1991.
Following intensive studies by PALMINDUSTRIE, the Environmental Protection
Directorate of the Ministry of Industry, and the Bank, proposals have been
made for improved effluent treatment (to be financed by CCCE) of the
existing oil mills. Assurances have been obtained from PALMINDUSTRIE that
it would present to the Bank for its review and approval by December 31,
1986, a timetable for the installation of the effluent treatment systems
at the new mills at Blidouba and Neka, and install said systems as agreed
and in any event before completion of the Project. PALMINDUSTRIE has also
agreed that it would take the necessary measures to ensure that its other
palm oil mills are operated with due regard to ecological and
environmental factors, especially with regard to disposal of effluents,
and that it would install effective treatment systems at all its palm oil
mills in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the Bank.
49.       Agricultural Research.  A small program of research directed to
project needs would be implemented by IRHO over a period of five years.
The project would finance the examination of problems related to the
maintenance of soil fertility and root disease. Satisfactory technical
proposals for these studies have been prepared by PALMINDUSTRIE and IRH0.
50.       Program Contrat.  The technical and financial parameters within
which PALMINDUSTRIE would conduct its industrial operations during project
implementation would be spelled out in a program contract between
PALMINDUSTRIE and the Government termed "Contrat Plan". Draft terms of
reference for the "Contrat Plan" have been prepared and are being reviewed
by the Government. The objectives and conditions of execution under the
"Contrat Plan" would (i) provide the Government with the means to monitor
PALMINDUSTRIE performance through PALMINDUSTRIE's Board of Directors, and
(ii) protect PALMINDUSTRIE from direct Government intervention in its
management and financial affairs. Moreover, it would ensure that strict
technical and financial management policies be maintained and reinforced,
that funds for project implementation would be available throughout the
project period, and that an appropriate policy for allocation of "free
funds" would be pursued. It would also provide the framework for the use
of the potentially substantial funds remaining after the project
investment costs for (i) replanting and expansion of oil palm plantations
beyond the project area, and (ii) dividend payments to the Government.
Finally, the "Contrat Plan" would provide for Government financing of a
financing gap that might arise during the project due to a short-fall in
PALMINDUSTRIE's self-financing capacity not covered by the proposed
external financing. Signature of a "Contrat Plan" acceptable to the Bank
would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The Government has agreed
that it would not change the substance of the "Contrat Plan" without the
Bank's prior agreement.
51.       Technical Assistance and Training.  The project would provide
for the continuation of the technical assistance presently being provided
to PALMINDUSTRIE under contracts with UNIPLANT and IRH0 (para. 31). The
two main objectives of this technical assistance are to assist (a) in the
planning, direction and control of project implementation; and (b) in the
implementation of the Action Program. This assistance would amount to 546
staff-months. The expatriates would occupy technical, financial,
marketing and personnel line functions and would have a key role in
project implementation. In addition, short term assistance of about 68



- 19 -
man-months would be provided for specific technical areas such as the
evaluatior. of PALMINDUSTRIE's financial operations and the agricultural
aspects of the project (para. 47), and staff training to achieve an
increasing degree of Ivorianization of higher management positions.
Improved training at PALMINDUSTRIE, which is presently confined to
technical aspects of agriculture, would be an integral part of the Action
Program. The scope of training would be expanded by including crop
processing, management, finance, commercial operations and smallholder
administration. The objective of the training program would be to develop
sufficiently capable local staff to fill most of the expatriate held
positions over the next 5-10 years.
52.       Project Cost and Financing.  The total project costs net of
taxes (US$ 39.7 million) is estimated at US$ 145.2 million. Base cost are
estimated in January 1985 prices adjusted for physical and price
contingencies. Price contingencies on foreign costs are based on Bank
projections of international price increases (1986: 7.5%; 1987-1990: 8%);
price contingencies on local costs are based on Bank forecasts of domestic
inflation (GDP-deflator; 1986: 7.5%; 1987-1990: 8%); physical
contingencies vary over a large number of items with an average of about
5% of base cost.
53.       Government has requested five partners to cofinance the project,
namely CCCE, CDC, EDF, EIB and IBRD. The terms of the cofinancier's
respective loans would be as follows:
Amounts and Terms of External Financing
Lending Institution  Amount   Loan Period    Grace Period   % p.a.
(US$ million) - -  -     Years
CCCE          13.4         20               5         8.0-10.0
CDC           13.4         15               5         9.0
EDP           13.3         40              10         1.0
EIB           13.3         15               5         6.6
IBRD          13.4         20               5         variable
54.       In view of the Bank's coordinating role and interest in the
entire sector, the Bank would participate in the financing of the main
components of the project (except for oil mills and effluent treatment).
The distribution of financing among the cofinanciers would be as follows:



- 20 -
Allocation of External Financing
to Major Project Categories
(US$ million)
CCCE   CDC   EDF   EIB   IBRD   Total
Industrial Plantations        3.4    3.6          7.2    5.3   19.5
Smallholder Plantings         2.7    2.2  13.3           2.5   20.7
Medium-sized Plantations      2.5    1.5                 1.2    5.2
Oil Mills                            6.1          6.1          12.2
Research                      1.4                        1.3    2.7
Technical Assistance          2.7                        2.7    5.4
Effluent Treatment            0.7                               0.7
Project Preparation Advance                              0.4    0.4
Total                        13.4   13.4  13.3  13.3   13.4   66.8
55.       Total external financing would amount to 43% of total project
costs net of taxes and duties and 36% of gross project costs.  US$40.9
million of total external financing would be on-lent to PALMINDUSTRIE for
the following components: industrial plantations, oil mills, technical
assistance, effluent treatment, research and PPF. US$25.9 million would
be onlent to FER for the financing of small and medium sized plantations.
The Government would take the foreign exchange risk. FER would be
utilized since participation by the National Agricultural Development Bank
(BNDA), which was created in 1968 to become the major source of credit to
the agricultural sector, is hampered by BNDA's current management
problems. Once BNDA's financial operations have been restored to normal,
participation in future operations could again be considered.
56.       The Bank loan would finance 9% of total project cost (net of
taxes) and would be provided to the Government for a period of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's variable interest rate. The
Government would on-lend US$ 9.7 million of the loan proceeds to
PALMINDUSTRIE at the Bank's variable interest rate plus 3% and US$ 3.7
million to FER at a fixed annual interest rate of 9%. Both sub-loans
would have the same maturity and grace period as the Bank Loan to the
Government. FER would receive US$ 25.9 million equivalent from the
cofinanciers via the Government at varying interest rates and maturities.
FER would on-lend (i) US$ 31.4 million equivalent (including US$ 10.6
million from its own funds) to smallholders who will pay a cess per kg of
FFB which would be equivalent to a loan to be repaid over the productive
life of an oil palm plantation (about 24 years), at an interest rate of
11% p.a.; and (ii) US$ 5.1 million equivalent at 12.5% p.a. interest rate
to holders of medium-sized plantations. The latter loans would be
repayable to FER over 20 years including 5 year grace. Interest rates
would be positive in real terms with inflation estimated at about 5Z per
annum for the next decade. Conditions of effectiveness would be (a) the
execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and
PALMINDUSTRIE and the Government and FER; (b) the execution of a
contractual arrangement between PALMINDUSTRIE and FER on the modalities of
cooperation between the two institutions; and (c) the fulfillment of all



- 21 -
conditions precedent to the first disbursements under the Loan Agreements
of the CCCE, CDC and EIB. Funding from EDF would be made available by the
end of CY 1986 following the expected ratification of its new lending
authority under the Lome III Convention. Any expenditures to be covered
by EDF before this date would be paid by PER from its own resources, while
the EDF contribution would be spread over the remaining period of the
project.
Procurement
57.       All goods and servi.;es financed under the project would be
procured in accordance with Bank guidelines except specific items being
financed by cofinanciers which would be procured under their own
procedures. Procurements arrangements are summarized in Annex V.
58.       All procurement would be grouped and combined with requirements
for PALMINDUSTRIE's existing plantations where applicable. Contracts
valued at US$200,000 equivalent or more would be procured through
international competitive bidding. Such contracts would comprise malnly
fertilizers, chemicals, plastic bags, wire netting, land clearing
equipment, vehicles and oil mills. Contracts worth less than US$200,000
equivalent but more than US$75,000 equivalent would be procured by local
competitive bidding and would comprise inputs, building and construction
materials, fuel, effluent treatment plant and recurrent cost expenditures.
Because of the dispersed nature of the program local competitive bidding
procedures or local shopping would be applied for contracts less than
US$75,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million. The
total value of goods and services to be procured through ICB would be
about US$62.0 million (43% of total project cost); through LCB, about
US$28.0 million (15%); and through other methods about US$95.0 million
(51%) of which about US$66.0 million for staff and labor costs, for which
bidding procedures are inapplicable. Where local shopping is required a
minimum of three quotations would be obtained or, in the case of
germinated seeds a contract would be negotiated with the only supplier
IRHO. Road construction, land clearing and building work would be carried
out on force account which PALNINDUSTRIE has demonstrated it can achieve
more effectively than by contracting out (Project Agreement, Section I of
Schedule I). Research would be carried out by IRHO under a contract
satisfactory to the Bank negotiated between PALMINDUSTRIE and the Ministry
of Research.
59.       Agreements have been reached that finAncing of procurement items
by the co-lenders would be as follows: (i) CCCE - for agricultural
tractors, planting costs, research, technical assistance and effluent
treatment plant; (ii) CDC - for planting costs, and oil mills; (iii) EDF -
for smallholders only, planting costs; and (iv) EIB - for industrial
plantations only, land clearing equipment, planting costs and oil mills.
The selection of consultants (para. 51) would be in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for the use of consultants (Project Agreement, Section II of
Schedule I). It has been agreed with PALMINDUSTRIE that retroactive
financing would be provided in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of US$1.4 million on account of payments made for land clearing
equipment after April 1, 1985, so as to enable PALMINDUSTRIE to continue
its planting program without interruption.



- 22 -
Disbursements
60.       The schedule of disbursements is based on the Ivory Coast
agricultural projects disbursements profile. Disbursements would show
much the same pattern as the standard profile, but would start at a higher
level because of the retroactive financing mentioned in para. 59. The Bank
loan would be disbursed over 7 years as shown below and would cover:
hAmsnt                   Perceitae of Eqpnditure
Category              (000's US$)                        to be fiirxed
Irdustrlal Plantations
PLating Costs           3,500                    100 a/
Lad Clearlng Fquip.     1,400                    100 of foreign eendiurms
Smailholder Plantaticns
Plating Cots            2,300                    100 a/
Miid-sized
Ylantatins
Plating Costs           1,000                    100 a/
Research                1,300                    40 of total exuditusm
Techidcal Assist.       2,700                    50 of total exenditres
Rfundinrg of Project
Prepaatim Adnme           365
Unallocated              835
Total                  13,400
a/ of a standard amount per hectare (see para. 61) as follows:
industrial plantations, US$1,500; smallholder plantations, US$500;
medium-sized plantations, IUS$2.000. Bank disbursement to be over a
specified maximum area for each plantation category.
61.       Disbursement for planting costs for plantations would be made
according to a standard amount per hectare planted, to be claimed once for
each specific area planted under the project at the end of the first
planting year of each area. Payment certificates for the areas planted
each year will be prepared by PALMINDUSTRIE and verified by PALMINDUSTRIE
field inspectors. Planting costs would be financed in parallel with CCCE,
CDC, EDF and EIB. Research and technical assistance would be financed
jointly with CCCE. Disbursements for expenditures whose value is less
than US$20,000 would be made against statements of expenditure, the
documentation for which would be retained in PALMINDUSTRIE's offices for
inspection by supervision missions. To improve the efficient and timely
implementation of the project, the Bank would deposit, after loan
effectiveness, an initial sum of US$750,000 equivalent in FCFA in a
Special Account to finance eligible expenditures corresponding to the
Bank's share of about four months's Project financing needs. Opening of



- 23 -
the Special Account would be a condition of loan effectiveness. Signature
of a contract for research would be a condition of disbursement for the
research component of the project.
Markets and Prices
62.       The Domestic and Export Market for Edible Oils and Crude Palm
Oil. In 1985 total production in the Ivory Coast of vegetable oil in
terms of edible oil is expected to amount to 109,000 mt (all time high
1980:138,000 mt) which would exceed domestic demand for edible oil by
26,000 mt. Assuming unchanged per capita consumption of edible oils at
13.6 kg/year the domestic demand for edible oils is projected to exceed
domestic supply without the project by 1993. The same assumption of
demand with the project implies an excess supply available for export in
year 2000 of 56,000 mt (compared with world exports of about 6.7 million
mt estimated for 1995). The Bank forecasts the world price of palm oil in
constant 1983 dollars to decrease from US$590/mt in 1985 to US$535/mt in
1995, a 10% decline over the period.
63.       The Pricing Reform.   The objective of the pricing reform in the
oil palm subsector - as agreed with the Government - is to ensure the
payment to PALMINDUSTRIE and outgrowers of the full world market
equivalent value of their produce adjusted to reflect effects of the newly
introduced industrial tariffs (as of January 1985) on production inputs
and to gradually achieve a net effective production coefficient of unity.
When CSSPPA was in charge of the marketing of the crude palm oil (para.
29), the domestic price was largely equal to the export equivalent spot
price. Since PALNINDUSTRIE took over the marketing of the crude palm oil
products from CSSPPA, the transfer price of crude palm oil to the domestic
refining industry for domestic consumption purposes has been determined on
the basis of an indicative formula. The formula links the domestic price
with long-term world market price trends, but also includes domestic price
developments as a major component. Since the introduction of the
indicative formula domestic priccs have in general been below (sometimes
as much as 40%) export equivalert prices. At present PALMINDUSTRIE
exports part of its production at prevailing world market prices.
According to the propesea pricing arrangements, the current price fixing
formula would be eliminated. Imports and exports of crude palm oil would
be totally free. The transfer price of crude palm oil from PALMINDUSTRIE
to the domestic refining industry would be determined by the two concerned
parties through commercial contracts freely negotiated. This should
result in a transfer price negotiated at a level between the import and
export parity price of crude palm oil. The Government has agreed to
implement the pricing arrangements presented above. As for the price of
refined palm oil, the Government has agreed, under the structural
adj-tstment program supported by the Bank, to implement a reform of
industrial incentives implying the harmonization of tariff protection
across the various subsectors and the introduction of an export subsidy
scheme. Within this framework, the Government has also been asked to
present a plan - as part of a possible third structural adjustment loan
currently being discussed with the Government - for the implementation of
a tariff reform and export subsidy scheme in the local vegetable oil
processing sector and to allow PULMINDUSTRIE to recover value added tax
paid on its intermediate inputs (para. 29), so as to achieve a net
effective protection equal to unity. This plan would include the



- 24 -
elimination of all quantitative restrictions on imports and exports at all
levels of the palm oil processing chain and the deregulation of palm oil
consumer prices.
The Farmgate Price of FFB
64.       Producer prices  for fresh fruit bunches have been revised at
long intervals and uneven rates. In the future, the farmgate price of
FFB, for smallholder's and holders of medium-sized plantations, would be
determined by PALMINDUSTRIE on the basis of the net proceeds from the
sales of crude palm oil and kernel oil. To determiine the net value of the
FFB, all costs associated with the smallholder sector would be deducted
from the sales proceeds of crude palm and kernel oils. The pricing reform
would also include a floor price for outgrower's FFB production. The
floor price, fixed through a Government decree, would guarantee outgrowers
a minimum net income per manday of labor. Its evolution would be linked
to the long term movement of the world price of crude palm oil. In case
an exceptional drop in world market prices of crude palm oil would trigger
the floor price mechanism and induce a deficit in PALMINDUSTRIE's
outgrower's account, PALMINDUSTRIE would be allowed upon providing full
justification, to apply for a temporary import surcharge on crude oil
Imports which would be reflected in the transfer price of crude palm oil
to the domestic refining industry. The Government has agreed to implement
the palm oil pricing system, as described above.
Operational Results
65.       Financial Analysis of PALMINDUSTRIE.  The present financial
structure of PALMINDUSTRIE is sound. Projected results of operations
forecast on a conservative basis including adequate provision for
reinvestment are summarised below:
FEs=  C  PERATI S   PC  M
(CFAF BRIlUi)
Achul                                            Total
FY84   1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990   1985-90  1991
Net cash flowa/    4.5  6.4   11.7  -0.2  -5.4 -3.7   1.6      10.4    2.5
Net prfit b/      9.2  7.7   14.3  16.3  17.4 17.8  17.4       90.9   17.8
Net profit as Z
of equity b/       26   18    28   29   28  27   25            -        24
Servie of exdstng
debt             14.0  5.8   5.3  5.0  4.7  4.6  4.1          29.5    2.7
Dividds
(estimnted) c/   -      5.3   12.2  12.4  13.3 13.5  13.9     70.6   14.3
Co!poraticx tmms   -    5.3  10.9  11.4  10.3 10.9  12.3       61.1   14.6
a/ After tax and dividends but including external financing.
b/  After tax, before dividends.
c/ "Dividends" covers here and elsewhere in the report the estimated
allocation to free funds either to be disbursed as dividends or for
investment in the subsector.



- 25 -
66.       The above cash flow and profit situation which assumes the
implementation of the pricing reform is sensitive to output prices and
agricultural yields. The implementation of the priring reform is,
therefore, important for the financial viability of PALMINDUSTRIE and for
the prospects of attracting private capital to the further expansion of
the oil palm sector. The combined sensitivity to prices and agricultural
uncertainty calls for prudence in the estimation of PALMINDUSTRIE's fund
generating capacity. The external financing (US$40.9 million) proposed to
PALMINDUSTRIE should be sufficient to allow PALMINDUSTRIE to finance its
proposed development program and to face potential adverse agricultural
and price conditions. In view of the company's current low debt-equity
ratio (40:60), the proposed of external financing would not overextend the
company's financial position.
67.       Funding of FER.  FER would be funded from four sources: (i) a
fixed cess of CFAF 1.5 per kg FFB (1985) paid by all producers (industrial
plantations, and holders of small and medium sized plantations and
deducted, by PALMINDUSTRIE, from the purchase price of FFB at the farmgate
or the oil mill; (ii) external funds onlent to PER by the Government;
(iii) a variable cess on FEB harvested by smallholders which would be
gradually increased during the project so as to cover the debt service of
PER and to increase PER's reserves; and (iv) repayments of loans by owners
of medium-sized plantations, at a rate which would also contribute to
FER's reserves. In addition, proceeds of the fixed cess less the funds
needed for the financing of the completion of the EDF project for planting
12,000 ha in 1984-86, would contribute to the financing of the smallholder
plantings in the amount of CFAF 5.2 billion (US$ 10.6 million). The cess
paid by smallholders was introduced in 1984 to replace standard credit
procedures, which yielded unsatisfactory results, and is collected by
PALMINDUSTRIE. Smallholder debt resulting from payments made by FER and
services rendered by PALMINDUSTRIE including new plantings is recovered
through the cess from productive plantations only. Holders of
medium-sized plantations would only pay the fixed part of the cess, and
repay their loans on the basis of individual loan agreements with FER, the
model agreement of which is satisfactory to the Bank.
68.       Benefits and Risks.  The principal project benefit would be
expansion of the oil palm subsector through the production of a
diversification crop in which Ivory Coast has a clear comparative
advantage. The incremental crude palm oil production (about 3 million
tons) over a period of 20 years of productive life of the palms on the
64,700 ha of the project would have a cumulative world market value of
about US$ 1.5 billion at constant 1985 export parity prices (estimated at
about US$490 per ton). The net cumulative foreign exchange earnings
(export revenue less cost of imported inputs) in constant 1985 terms
amount to US$200 million. Foreign exchange earnings/savings after
external debt service and assuming import substitution for local
consumption are estimated at a total of US$212 million (in constant 1985
terms). The project would also contribute to the provision of raw
materials to the local fats and oil industry. In addition, the project
would strengthen PALMINDUSTRE's financial and managerial capacity and
provide employment for some 8,000 smallholders, and workers. The overall
economic rate of return (ERR) of the project has been estimated at 18.5%,
with the individual rates of return for the industrial, small and
medium-sized plantation components reaching 14.7%, 25.5% and 20.2%,



- 26 -
respectively. These rates substantially exceed the opportunity cost of
capital. The differences between these ERRs are caused by varying
establishment costs due to different methods of land clearing and the
density and age of the vegetation in the designated areas. Medium-sized
plantations are established in areas with no previous oil plantings,
whereas the smallholder plantations include to a large extent planting in
areas with degraded vegetation. The lover ERR for industrial plantations
is due to the additional cost arising from foregone production from felled
oil palms which, although still producing albeit at a relatively low
level, need to be replaced.
69.       A possible risk would be inadequate management  of the
relatively large planting program, both at PALMINDUSTRIE headquarters and
its field management units, the agro-industrial complexes. Technical
assistance for management, implementation, training and evaluation of the
planting program should mitigate this risk. Moreover, the "Contrat Plan"
to be concluded between the Government and PALMINDUSTRIE, would clearly
delineate the responsibilities of both parties to avoid possible
implementation delays. Other risks, such as those due to agricultural
uncertainty and a decline in world market prices, have been tested by a
sensitivity analysis with switching values of 11.5%, which indicate that
the project would be most sensitive to variations in FPB yields or the
world price of oil palm products. In particular, failure to implement the
proposed tariff on crude palm oil would reduce the overall economic rate
of return to about 15%.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
September 30, 1985



- 27 -                                              ANNE  I
TA I L    3                                        Pge  1 of  7
IVORYl mat             -  OCIAL IHDICAdu  pT    E
19061 tins's                Suwm          1 situ  wMInTnu LeAASES) 
HOST                      (MIT 321W  EITIHSAI) lb
EMcE              31863.3 'I 2CI         NIDIS  ILIHU
J1ila!     1§70db  IETHALk           amc a. ovSA          t. AFRICA & *ID EAST
mu cvmSA  Se. We
TOTAL                              322-3       322.:       322.:
AG0CLTUPAL                           5.          77         6
va CAPIT  (669)                      ..         ..        710.0             10643                     1134.9
m  osum- cairn
(KILOGURU  OF OIL  qUIVALUIT)       50.0       169.0       139.0              541.5                     423.9
verne.. am mm. wanem
POPULATIOU.HID-IEAS (THOUSANDS)    3460.0     3000.0      9472.0
UR3* POPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)         19.3       27.6        44.3               32.0                      49.0
POIULATION 7OCTIOU
POPLTION IN VaS 2000 CHILL)                               17.3
STATIOAURT POMIILATLON (HILL)                             47.0
POPULATION  3o0N                                           2.0
POPULATION OEN ITT
EnR sQ. IN.                        10.7       15.3        29.4               83.1                      37.3
M  SQ. M. AG1R. LAND              61.7        36.7       130.3              124.8                     470.1
POPULATION ACE STRUCURE (C)
0-14 TUE                         43.7        42.3        44.7               43.6                      43.3
15-44 IRS                         53.6        54.9        53.2               31.5                      33.0
3 AMD AOVE                         2.4         2.1         2.0                2.7                       3.3
POPUATIoll CR0W    RATE CZ)
TOTAL                              2.1         3.7 jc      4.9 2c             2.9                       2.3
uRA                                4.0         7.3         3.3                5.1                       4.4
CRUDE 311T  RATE (PER T3OUS)        42.8        44.2        45.7               47.0                      40.0
CUD DEArS RATE (P   7S31)           23.7        20.3        14.2               15.0                      11.5
GROSS UPUdICT1IOK RAT                3.2         3.2         3.4                3.2                       2.8
FAMILY PLAeNI
ACCEP . T        (SMII( S)
USERS C OF HAIU      WIEN)          ..         ..          3.0                4.4                      21.4
FM    -m NKIIO
L__C  O  NOD PROD. t  CAITA
(3969-71-100)                       99.0        97.0       111.0               32.9                     95.1
PSI CAPITA SU"LT Of
CAULOS ( OF uIQmRDUITS)          102.0       116.0       IOS.0               93.3                     11.2
PrOIs (CR4  M  DAT)               49.0        59.0        34.0               35.4                      77.8
oF WICa AIMANL a  PULSE          13.0        16.0        16.0 ad            14.5                      17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH EATS         41.7        32.3        20.0               16.6                      12.8
LIF  11wr01. AT *ImS  (SAs)         41.5        43.9        51.5               32.0                      57.8
IN r mmT. BAlE (PE  70Wus)         172.5       143.5       121.0              1083                      96.3
ACCSS TO SAFE WATER (210W)
TOTAL                              ..          ..         43.9 ft            42.4                      67.2
3                                   ..         ..         31.0 f             47.5                      93.4
uSIIR                              ..          ..         75.0 to            33.3                     45.8
ACCESS TO rIET  DISPOSAL
(Z OP POPrATION)
TOTAL                              ..          5.0        25.0 If            28.9                      45.9
UDAN                               ..         23.0        33.0               37.7                      63.0
RURAL                              ..          ..         22.0 f             20.7                     26.0
POPULATON P  PHTSECIA            29190.0    1400.0           ..             11791.7                    4331.0
PO. MtR NURSING PERSON            2920.0      2U0.0 /        .-              2459.3                    1845.0
POP. UMOQIAL aM
TOTAL                            680.0       790.0         ..               931.1                    621.3
Ul33Am                             ..        490.0         ..               343.3                    545.0
RURAL                              ..       1330.0         ..              4371.9                    2511.3
AIIaSSIONS      HOSPAL   D            ..         ..          ..                27.2                      25.7
ARIcE SIZE Of 30S0o5L0
TOTAL                               ..         ..
lEAN                              ;3.4 11      ..
URAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE N0. o0 PERSONS/ROOH
TOTAL                              ..          ..
UUmAl                              1.3 ft      ..          .                   ..
PERCENTAGE OF DWELLIGS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                              1.0 Lk      ..
URDAN                              0.7 f       ..
9LOLa                             ..          ..          .                   ..



- 28 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                        Page 2 of 7
IVOIIY COAST          - IsOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SuN
IVORY COAST                         REERNCE GROUPS (WEIGHTE  AUUWCS) jj
MOST                     (mOT RECET UTIMATEL)
RECENT           MIDDLE INCOM           MIDDLE UCWI
mno0tk!    1970L!. tsTiiitkL       APRICA S. OF SMNAPA   N. AFRICA & MID EAST
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMLYI.  TOTAL                  46.0        63.0       76.0 1             95.7                     69.8
in].!                  66.0       80.0        92.0 1f 300.0                             103.7
FUElU                  24.0       45.0        60.0 i            63.2                     75.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  2.0         9.0       20.0 /             17.3                     42.9
MALE                    4.0        14.0       2 .0              25.0                     50.9
pFIALE                  1.0        4.0        11.0 ft           14.3                     34.6
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECONDARY)        12.7         7.3       18.6 L              5.9                     10.0
PUPIL-TLEHR RATIO
PkIKARY                          41.0        45.0       39.0 /1            41.1                     29.7
SECONDARY                                    21.0        ..                25.5                     13.6
O     Ona1
PASSENGER CANSITHOUSMIID POP        3.3        11.3       14.6 f             20.8                     17.6
RADIO RNCEHIVERI/TOUSAIID POP      15.9        15.0       10.1              107.8                    175.9
Ty RUCEIVEU/TEOUSANU rOP            0.4         6.0       38.5               20.3                     51.2
NMWSPAPER ("DAILY CGENEAL
INTERST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAD POPULATION             2.3         8.8        7.7               16.4                     37.2
CINIINA ANIIAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA    .           2.0 n      0.9 ft            0.4                       2.4
us -0
TOTAL LABOR 1ORCR (THUS)          1358.0     2056.0     4610.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 46.2        42.7       40.5               36.2                     11.0
AGRICULTU   IRCUIT)              39.0        84.0       79.0 Jn            54.5                     42.4
INUSTR  (PERCENT)                 2.0         3.0        4.0 A             18.3                     27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            53.7        53-.2      4.7                36.                      2.2
mALu                             53.4        59.3       56.0              47.1                      46.2
FENALE                           49.1        46.7       41.7              27.2                       5.3
ECONOMIC DENDCY RATIO               0.9         04-        1.0                1.3                      1.8
PERCENT OF PIVATE INCO
RECEIVED ST
HIGHEST 5S OF SOUSEnOS           30.9
HICIGST 20S or IOUSIIOLDS        51.3         ..         ..
LOWEST 20S OF HOUSUIOLDS          6.6               ..            ..                    ..
LOWST 4OS o0  IUSEROLDS          16.5         .-         ..
ESIMATED ASOLTIC POVERT INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..       274.0 Is           590.7                    226.3
RURAL                             ..          .-        96.0 7;           275.3                    134.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE PPOMTY INCOME
LEVEL (WS$ P   CAPITA)
URM                               ..          ..       437.0 /a           545.6                    431.5
RUtAL                             ..          ..       244.07             201.1                    326.0
EMATE  POP. BEOW ABSOWTE
POVERTY INWoS  LML (C)
URUIS                             ........
RURAL                             ..          ..         ..                 ..                      29.0
NOT AVAILAIZ
NOT APPLICALET
N1OT ES
/a  The group averages for eacb inditator ar populatcO-sltted aritlmatic mau.  Coverag  of countcESs
among the Indicetors depend. on availability of dnat end I not unitorm.
lb   Ucler. othawime noted, "Dto for 1960" rei r to anyoer bet_mn 1959 end 1961; "Data for 1970" betn
1969 and 1971; and data for "Mont incest Eatiata  betwen 1981 and 1963.
/c  Due to linigration population Srowth rate Ia bhgher than rate of ntural incras ; Id 1977; /a 1980; /f
1976; k 1963; /h Covernmant peranos only; /1 African population In the city oruouste ory, for
1957-58; LI 195S57, Aftican population ln urban eantars of Abanourou, Agboville, Dlsbotro aId lin
only, refer to bowehold.; 1k 1962; t1 1979; /a 1978; / 1972.
JUiN, 1933



ANE   I
-  29  -                                     Page 3 of 7
DUWIlONS OF SOCIAL INDICATINS
Noe Although tlidataamdrawn f.mourn a    yjdd tbe masttMve adrallahs I6  hould aie b nated tht tny my not hi lmtrlly
cwmpara bla aum of the lak of sutirdised ddlldon ad soups mm by dilem  comars In csletin; the data. Tlw danu an, _aensh, anhil to
dua4e  ordes o dwagntud indikcte trmds, and chaac_ie meal  i4or ditnam betw  countrie.
The rferacm pomps am (1) she  nm country gop of 1 subhjt country and (2) a counry pop wih  mwksat hIg4er averap income tiam the cntry
groupofshesubjeseotcnlry(scpt her "Hh lRaaOliuEnpW  grp whm "Middleoma lrth o     eAfiaand MiddhEt'Ism hschtmoiafamw
miociovultural amskis). lahreomes gpmp dat the ao *ramp     populton wughsd arihmetic nmu far scu Indicator and shon only whan maorty
of the countrin a pomp hua data fer thal Indcar Sitn di the ovarmgVefcountries amang thelindlc _reapmdson tIAavallhlllty ofddu and k nat  lreorm,
culo mnmt beeszrde  In relating av    aorone indiator to ansehr Thmesevecraare oly ueful Incerx inp dk value  owne indicator t tins among
mte smutty snd reafrea poupL
AREA (thouand sq.km.)                                          Cruk Mrth lAwe (per thma _d-N tuber of live births in the year
JTl-Total surface area comprising land are and inland waters;  per thousund or mid-year population; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Crd Deadh lut (per he_J ud)-Nnumber of deaths in the year
Apeluwuio-Estimate of griculturl area usd lemporaily or         per thouand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanetiy for crops, pastures, market nd kitchen gardens or to  GOJrs  _epradueuie Rute-Averge number of daughters a woman
lie fallow, 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                          will bear in her mannao reproductive period if she experies
preent  age-specfilc fertility rates; usuaDy fAve-year aerageending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at curent        in 1960.1970. and 1933.
market prices, calculated by same convenion mrethod as World   _       PI1_A. A_    (&                   sAnnual num-
onk  da,(19543 basis):1983 databorsoptors orberitbcontrol devies underauspies of nationa
ENERGY CONSUMI  Q)N PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 famil planning progrm.
consumption of commerm   ' primary eeergy (coil and lipgit,     F_   Plaard-4sm (prct of mauld mWf-The percen-
petroleum, natural gas and L 4tro-, nuca and geothennal ec-    tap ofmarried women of child-bearing ag who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equtu lent pr capita; 1960, 1970. and  whose busbands are prcticing any form ofcontraception. Women
1932 data.                                                     of child-bearing aeare generfly women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measurd for otber age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATI1. 'CS                                 roupa.
T-nPod peltlm. M1983r (dhousiaa)-As of July 1; 1960.1970.      FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
UrbmPbpoen pffm   oftota)-itlioof ubanto ttal  Index i.f fedPhibelocti  hr Capita (I U-7TI- IN8)-[ndex of per
Urp pltio  d     (pud t ef ntion -Ratio of urban at co  l      capita annual productin of ag food conuodities Production
opulationf different defntios of urban ara may  atam           edudec animal feed and sed for agricutur  Food commodities
ability of data among coumtries 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.     ilude primary commodities (eg. sugarcane insad of sugu)
Apuhvi..  eeduas                                               which are edible snd contain nutrients (es coffee and tea are
Pepplatio in year 2000Tbe projection of population for 2000,   excluded); they comprise cerals, root crops. puls  oil seeds,
made for each economy separtely. Starting with information on  vegetabls, fruits. nuts. sugucane and sugar bets, livestock, and
total population by age and sx fertility rats,smoraity rtes. and  livestock products Agggte production oreach country is bsed
international migration in the base year 1900, these p _       on nationa average producer price weights; 196145, 1970. and
wre projected at rne-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
aum ptions until the population became stationary.              hr Capita Srpy ofCabrks (purgw qfrqmuraeassI-Comput-
Satrionary pepulaten-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion, imports kl  exports, and changes in stot Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- l). In such a popuation, the birthrate is  exclude animl feed, seds for ue in agriculture, quntities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs fornormal activity
siz was estimated on the basis of the projected charcteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of popuation. and alowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                     wutc at household leved 1961 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momennum-Is the tendency for population growth to   hr Capit Supl of rPein (ramur per dzfJ-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacenent-klvel fertility has been  percapita nt supply of food per day. Net supply of food isdefined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is masured as  provide for minimum allowans of 60 grms of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, orwhich 10 grams
the year : given the assumption that ferility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1915 data.                       75 grms of total protein and 23 gms of animal protein as an
AIPEiSLN  D,ea&y                                               avemge for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqJcm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply. 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
tars) of total ara 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.                  hr CabSt hae! Sup*p  As Anlsd m ireu-Protein supply
Pr sqkm. agrpichral land-Computed as above for agricultural    of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65
land only. 1960. 3970, and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
pIutime. Agte Strutrer (pnecetn-Children (0-14 years). work-   CAhl (es 1-4) Death lute (per iuhetsad-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960.1970. and 1983 data.               group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
hpaAwuk  Gowth Rate (percearlta--Annual growth rates of        from life tabes; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mnid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.  HEALIT
Rpwbplio Gaiowth Rare (pertf-m-hs--Annual growth rates         Lie Expectany at Seh (years-N umber of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60 1960-70. and 1970-33 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-30 -                                          ANNEX  I
age 4 of 7
at the time of of its birth wre tostay the snme throughout its life;  PpIlLteacher hto - prbwry, and jecandary-Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                    rolled in primary and secondary level. divided by number. or
luow Mwraby Rate (per Mmad)-Number of infants wbo die    teacher in the corrsponding level.
before reaching one year of age per thousnd live births in a given
yeazr 1960. 1970 and 1983 data                               CONSUMPrION
Aces o S4fe Wtre (ptee  of p*Ar, Ed                          PassA   Cars (per thsmd pepuIaiau)-lPuenger ca  com-
N       -Number of people (totaL urban, nd rural) with reaonble  prime motor cars seadng less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (inchldes treated suiface watem or  ances, heurse and mniitary vehides.
untreated but uncontmmted water such a that from protected   Rad , beadwrs (pr saisnd p.p.mltden i-Al types of receiver
mbroh, sprn  and sanitary wells) as pmeentag  of their re.P>  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousnd of population;
dve populations. In ma urban aea a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-lcensed receiver in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 mete  from a house may be considered  registration of radio ets wu in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reaonable aoa of that houe. In rural aras    not be cornparble since most countries abolishd licensing.
reaonable acce would imply that the housewife or nember of the
housdhold do not have to spend a disproportionate pat of the day  To  eeublic (per thousmdp opulatuion-TV rceivems or broadcast
in fetching the family's water ne                            to general public per thousand popuwation; excludes unklisd TV
AcceJ to Em        Ehpal (eat ofpde ro)-tl u1b               receivers in counties and in yea  when rgsttion ofTV st was
and raral-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by  in elect
excreta dispoul as percentage of their repecdve populations.  ?*Wp    Clrelsio (per thassandpol.helon)-Shows the aver-
Exoreta dispoul may include the collection and disposal, with or  age circulation of daily gneral intrest newspaper.' defined as a
without treatment, of human excres and waste-water by water-    P=Iicaf publacbon devoted prinaily to recording eneal news
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be "daily" if it appea at kst four times a week.
PopuIeb per Ppidc-_Population divided by number of prac      Chi, A _ml Aneadmwe per C*ta pr Yew-Bawd on the
tising physicians qualified from a rnedical school at university level  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
PopulbAlo per Nwnixg hseom-Plopulation divided by number of  dTive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses,  LAIOR FORCS
pracical nurses and nursing auxiliamies.
ftp.hi. per Hoil J-t_otd,   m, and ordapulabon                  a Lab  Force (uun/ams)-Economically active persons, in-
(total, urban, and rural) divided by tbeir respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding houwivoes.m
hospital beds available in public and private, general and spdaliwd  students. ctc.. covering population of a1l ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centen. Hospitals am eblihenuts  various countries are not compamble 1960.1970 and 1933 data.
pennanendly staffed by at Ieast one physician. Establishments prov-  Faml (perceu)-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals,    force.
however. indude bealth and medical centers not pem anendy staffed  Airkulte (percet)-Labor force in farming. forstry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assisnt, nurse, nidwife, etc.)    and fishing as percentage or total labor force; 196, 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patiest accommodation and provide a limnited range  data.
of medical faclities.                                         xdustry (perea)-Labor force in mining, consruction, manu-
Adrossiou per Aespial Red-Total number of admissions to or   facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds      forc; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
P i       Ra  (perceat4-tma.a umk, mdfieft-Pauticipation
HOUSING                                                      or activity rates are computed as total male, and female labor force
Aferge Size of Hoseho  (ptnca per houehoM)-totatl, wha,%    as percentages of total, male and female population of aUl ages
anialr-A household consists  ofa group ofindividuals who share  respecty; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure ofthe popula-.n, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national source
Averwge NaIber of Iavsms per Room-toal, arbn, ad rnal-       Eceork Depesidenc Raio-Ratio of population under IS and
Averagc number or persons per room in all urban. ind rural   65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings respectively. Dwellings exdude
non-pennanent structurs and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percete of DiueEp  *1 Electricty-eotal, rwoh, ad ral--      Percete of TOWa DO;m_     lme (both in cas ad kind)-
Conventional dwellings with ekctricity in living quarters as percen-  Accv"-- tn percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectivly.       nold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4sted Enrelhneut Ratios                                     The following estimnates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prmary school - toral, *l ad fecnak-Goss total. mie and     levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of al ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estioted Absolte Jbvty Icome Lerd USS per capha oiwam
respective primary schoolage populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income kvd is that income klvel
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
difrerences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Esdtua ed Relte PaV  Incme Lewe (USSper cqp&)-w-arba
education. gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  ad rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  avcragc per capita personal income of the country. Urban levd is
agc.                                                         derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Seccndary school - total, male and female-Computed as above;  Gving in urban areas.
secondary education requires at kast four years of approved pri-    Er ted Popdlasiom Below Absolte  ,verty  caae Level (per-
mary instruction: provides general, vocationaL or teacher training  ce --whrbm ant r_raJ- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of !2 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are -absolute poor.'
ence courses are generay excluded.
Vocationd Enrolbmni (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-         Comparative Analysis and Data Division
dons indude techmical. industriaL or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                           June 1985



-31 -                                                                         ANmI
--Aladionr          9g        Q    si usls twues                                        T U   a 1W? I   rOM  -  n IC ImsIsAM                                                              Page 5 at 7
Upr CapStat           120           S, t5 19.
bu_nt                                                             Aemna  grUb rite III it tuetut prscu
lo lIt&m  M            --_ .... .     _._ .... _   ___. _ ... . . ..    . ...  .._ .   ... . ...... . ...... _.._............. . ..._...............
I.diumw                   at gvrrt prieSil                                    ktatl                               Prelimmumy                                                    Pr OJKts
t                      -- . ---.-- ...... . -.-..                   -    -      ............                         ..............  . ........  .. ........
n974     1911    19l0    9m        593              5l93      I"3    5no       5911              5905    191       59117    lYE     5919      990
bFe  Setic irfct            67.7                         12.0      4.I     9.9      1.5      1.7               0.3    -4.0    -4.4       4.1               2.1      3.1      3.3      4.1      4.0     4.1
Auriasvlure               1772.2                        LI      -0.4    50.       LI       9.3               2.7    -2.2   '11.5    -52                  4.5      4.5      4.5      4.3      4.5     4.5
leantry                  122.9                       156.5      9.4    19.1      *.1      4.5              9.7   -54.2       2.A   -15.3                3.7      4.7    12.9       4.0     0.1      2.0
Services                  22.0                        -13.3   -5t.1    34.6       4.1    20.2                 .0    -4.7    -0.    -12.0                -0.2      1.1      0.2      2.7      4.4     4.2
Prodaeen & Ss.htssn       539.4                        74.3    33.0   -54.3    -8.5        .19.            -50.3      7.5     -.5      20.5              2.0      2.1    -2.6       3.2       .4     5.7
Seintlu                     5421.1                       54.0      9.1    1I.?      2.       9.4              -1.7    -4.4    -5.       -4.0               1.4      5.4      3.4      5.9      5.8     4*.3
Iros lnsts st                170.I                       23.4    43.4    21.9    -9.        -7.9              4.0    -J7.5   .19.1   -22.1                -0.2      2.4      2.4      2.7    -0.51     J.
mpewts of Mg                2597.4                       55.7    -7.1      L.0      2.3    13.5                5.5      5.1    -2.1      1.5               8.4      0.7      2.0      2.9      3.1     3.3
Depute of  s                2444.9                       25.7    20.0    14.4    -3.2        LI               -4.2     -5.0   -17.1   -12.9                2.9      5.5      1.2      4.4     2.&      3.2
brs hEctic sevmp             555.5                        4.9    -6.4      3.4    -0.4       1.2               1.3     -1.4     -.      -5.0              -0.3    -4.4       5.3    -2.4    -L.1       3.2
.~~~~~~~~. ._........ ..                                                                                                    .         _._._..........__........____... . _ ..... __ -----------  -----..__      ._.  . .    . .__ _ ........_
nim
U   fiflatw  II93.5W01       129.5                       a5.5    14.4    91.0    97.4   500.0                10.    115.5   129.5   144.4                I55.7   543.0   514.0   191.1   205.3    21.7
btecl       rate 101-1 I     31.                        239.0    25.1   225.4   212.7   255.3                275.7   323.4   J3.5   440.0                44.0   4450    632.0   420.0   401.0   3960
arer  of GOat Market ira crnlKS                                                herae hue    Isecrume 141
let cwrue  pricsel                                                        fat cst.et Im   pclrm
IN      5970     1f"      5m       1935    1999               J971         1970/1575         57190i            593/1S5           JI nnI9
bcNe bh tic PrYabt                    50.0    191.0    105.0   500.0   50U.0        11.0              I.?               LI               4.9              -2.1               3.9
rtulttn                              39.4    351.9   2J.2    27.1    27.1        2.1                !.0               0.7              U.0              -0.7               4.5
lialoary                             IS       10.5     57.0    15.4    15.5       4.4              13.4               4.3             10.4              -4.0               4.0
l celc                               2.       23.1.3   34.      35.4    33.4    32.0                9.4              14.4              4.4              4.3                1.5
Ptr.lazm  & Ip.htles                13.5    20.9       58.0    20.0    23.2    22.1                12.9               1.6             10.4               1.2               3.4
biratim                                75.4    70.3    77.4    79.4    79.7    U4.5                   3.5               7.5              9.0              -4.5               5.0
Us Ihncetnt                            21.3    20.7    22.0    24.4    153.        11.5               7.3               53              11.4             -17.5               0.1
Caute of                               34.L    35.3    34.7    35.0    40.2    37.3                   3.3               4.9              4.7               1.9               2.7
putes of Ws                            30.5    29.1      34.4    41.2    33.5       3.4               7.9               5.5             12.3             -50.9               Lo
?rn b tkic SWaut                       XL       32.5    23.3    20.4    23.5    50.3                  9.4               3.5             -0.3               0.7              4.5
b a K Of Sp
MiKIC FIN9 1                                     975 two0  51     fu       15      I tO
Cont  hwe                              21.4    32.3      29.9    31.7    23.       24.4
Carruts bpltorn                        24.      2.7    24.1    25.7    25.4    23.3
Ptlic Savilqe                           3.9      4.1      LU       4.0     2.0      5.2
Capiatl Eapspdturrn                     5.1      7.5      8.1     11.7      .Z      4.3
44raip Flarcile  Itl                    0.9      5.4      2.0      .2      5.9       .7
-1130la 5                          5915-70           5970            15975-0            10-               IN-410
VW"  ets CM                         0.4               5.3              a.2              -.9                4.0
Wr Capita teeh Pata I51             5.0             -0.2               2.1              -4.9                 5
1.               L.0               3.7                -               3.5
-ead  Saviap Raft                   0.3              0.4              -0.9               0.3              4.2
rt Elastcity                        0.9               0.9              2.5              -.3                1.0



_32_ -                                                                                  r 
Wallop               ON                                                               lal[lmUr  11 1 t W  amew   *  -  c lmlm mum                                                               I of 7
W  e bptem            12a          t    111 333- -9
_Ant                                                            bull ISt0 rate _1l at usett pim
imallam UNi
lIdicaltr                at currut rimul                                    ktel                               Prelldwy                                               Frulrtud
ntw     19n      am       191    1m                IU       192      im      ae                l93     191£    Ill       en      n3      1if"
_..   __... ... .. ... .__..___......_ .___.._.__.._._....... __... .
brcheudim  iWt             2312.1                      23.3    11.       L.o    .4.7   -11.4               -L.3     1.1   -1.2    31.4                 9.6     0.       2.9      3.0      L.2     3.3
Aricltwn                  tl23.L                     39.1    19.4       9.2   -ILI   -2L3.               -ILS     I.    -2L2        LI7             II.S    -2.3      *.5    0LS        0.5     0.5
Inustry                  16S3.                        1.2      6.2    -.L       L.b    11.3             L0        4.0      1..      1.5              4.6    10.6    I0.0    I0.0    10.0    10.6
richeedau  eWgOl            I9.1                       12.4      3.2    u2n      -1.I      1.1            -4.3    -L.    -37.0   -17.?                 Li       .       0.4      3.1      L       4.0
F                         3S15.2                     17.1    30.       ILI    I13   -1L.5                  .       S.4   -11.4    -L2                L.5      7.4     Ls       0.0      4.3     4.3
htrnl no                  SOL.O                      I3.9    -0.3    27D.       4.3      L2             -317.3   -14.2   -17.3   S5.0               21.1    14.6       .3-L   -3.1    32.0      3.2
ef.ctlvd bI              134L3                         12.3    22.9     .1I   -54        1.4           -19.1    -0       -21.5   -3L                 2.3      4.3     3.2      4.3      5.4     5.0
--   --.   ------._. .
Falco
li wt tlue  33951.35                                   03.0    71.7    71.1   11 61.3                      15.2      35     7LI    7L.                 1.      72.2    17.5    13.4      M.7    97. I
Iqrt two  329113602                                    40.0     We    71.2    11.2   31.3                  94.9    51.4       .0   30.9               11.1    3LI    9.2   104.5   114.1   125.3
tore of Trad ted.                                     305.0   107.7    ILI    95.5   313.                  19.11    11.1    91S    9n.                lN.9    3L.      31.4    19.3    73.0    77.5
Cuuittl of brihumd  troblill                                                   nrrag  Ausi Ilore.m III
leL crrat pricnl                                                        let cetet  91  FicEl
13904    9 139  l31      l9p    131        im 1i      1 39       911111I0ID       197u31915         91/29            3l9 9m           3915I1,91
blurts                      31.6    31.0   31.3   30.3    j.    31.    31a.6                       1                3.2              L                L. I.
IgrIiuItwe                 I3.      I0.      71.9    60.4     0.4       5.     1L53              L                -Ll              1LI               t.7              1.§
lkstry                      7.3    23.4    23.       39.0    35.0    44.1    24.1                U.              IL7                7.0              1.1             30.3
Imwrts                      SOLO   s1.0   IS.$   300.3    10.3   31.I 35.o                         0.3              4.4               9.5            -ILO               3s
Fhd                         0.L    ILI    ILI         9.4      9.7    I1.      23.4             -1.7                .5             ILI 22                             5.0
PetrAl.                     9.6      LO      3i    13.0       It.9    13.2    3.2                3.3               1.2             12.3            -21.               3.0
ufe      titue   lh        31.6 11. 1        R4      79.0    70.4    I1    31.4                  9.1               LI               L7             -14.5              4.0
Owe d Trad wIth               d0, oI rfb with odwnof Irbe with
luhstrlal C_Imtrln 15                     bhl.lepl I.,ttl.. 3                   Capital Sepla Oil bertu   at
IECIZO  U TUlgap 1             63    3970    3975    2919               190      I9,   1m         In9              1911f    i976    im       1919
-E-*i                        14    IL0        1.       03.4             136      12.1   2D.2    12.3                0.6      *2       L.O     2.7
IricIltw.                  14.2     n1.      I.9      -                13.0     1.9   I12        -                 0.0     0.2      LO      -
ledutry (btl. all)         39.3     11.     IL5       -                9.0    01.7    IL1        -                0.t      0.       L.0     -
ewrs                         1.7 1I1          12.3    33.3              14.31    1.S    21.4       LS               0.0      Li       I3.    11.7
3to be pdtd



- i-                                                                                aInIU2
Td1*, 3 i        In W      * msw _       Ii,                                                                                               Pat   1  r 7 o 7
lpilatam                  Ii&iE31,0      all                               lWlim  S  at   rI  prlal
*  ow  belt.              64,89331
let ---- ._. .... ... .   __..... ____.......... . .......... _._ .. .
Madcater
91I     1971    T1F7    1913    1971         S     59m3     12                391      10               3       1        197       1       11ip    1299     1191
........._____.....__ ............................................. .__ . ._.. _........_ . __... _.... _
twit .  ih                                   130.9    1.   263.4   2Z1.7   31111.3   31it        21*.2  2131.9             ZIPS1  23."3              m3.    331.1   3011.6  301.2  3.I   4253.    991.3
laprts af Su$                                1214.1416.5  t1I12.4  244.3   235   3311.3  251.5  22                         1793   3478.9             131.1   1363   2*7.2 2 3.4 A   252.3  2924.3   92.3
Irrb Salac.IFUIClFI                            tH.3   31L31   511.3   519.9    Jl.   -14.7    36.7    21           33         1.5     6.             5t12.?   914.3   16.6   1151.3  1822.3 J339.6 1414.5
Mj.aits                                      15.3   2IL4   222.9   38.4   60.3   647.17    MI3    S7                       261.3   37.               261.6   231.4   265.    295.3   33L2    3.L   59.3
ired hlilac  IISSIFUI                         2n6.&   314.    116.9  791.3   0.?t    3.           U735    Ml                55.3   392               322.9  1232.2  13453   33.3   IS5.9  17119.   3716.3
lriawc  -  7raa I rta                        - e &    -QL   .93.9  -1537.3 -*lOt1.9  -ZO         1U -I .1   16.6           5117 -*2.1 U438. -IAW.I   -61  .37t.3  -147.7  -212.2  -2323.t  321.7
t   Fact. SaF . Payciatel                    21.6  -41.1   -57.   -152.  -11631.1 431.3  -1622.5  -3l                     -7J3.5  -*17.3            -*46.9   -I3L4   -11a.6  31051.2  -126.1  -I3LD    -3942.2
arcts Ior. Pa_utsl                          -238LI  -23.6  -46L9   42.4   4363   -%L11  423.4   .10.5                     -936.2   4 35             41L2   416L.    -34 -413.5 3        03I5  -2032   -13115
Jotrast 112                               -56.0   I74.1   .3.3  -846.2  -34I2.        22   -37L         S -43           54L0, -3.0               41.2  -46.   -U3.5  -33.6  -62.    4231  -SL.I
- et,,a Sttain                              171.1  -7.9.6  -344.1   43.3   47LI,  41.7   -3.1    462.                    -365.0   416.              31L.    433.L2   -23131.4   -31.9  -4.2   413.3   431.3
dist traIr'al                                                  7tU      3.o    201.3   12L35      1       *Lt                L0     750               16.0   I26       I1LI    14.4    ILI    I2.         24.3
Etrtt kcot luace                       l     -34.0  -24L3   .115.   -710  -1379 .3  -2I*65   -1214.0  --916   -130                                   -304.6  -4.9  -t51.3  -5.6  -33   4IL73    -231.4
bhract Fwasg  Iawatmt                          7s      as    -aS        135.0    39.5    .I6    110.6   134.5               32.0    45.               10.0    12$06    IP.3    14.0  I3.3    1353    19.4
It? Captal3 10.2   22123                                        614.1   7..2   432.313.4           9.4   12.1                  .    2M0               412.5   3344    133.1   599.6   140L.   23.          32
Olhr Capats                                   823.1   *3.5  -219.1    51.8   4114    IIL6           1.6   I1L.1             53L0   -126.                6.0      .6    9LI        4.3      9.      9I       3.0
uoE  Eiarue                                    9-.0   -36.3  -84L5    * 1N.0   2         643.0   543.    11.3               684.6    49.0             420.9    25.6    -7.2   513.7   341.7   233.I  -29L3I
ewvn  Lewl                                    35.2   4092    34L52   *.2   333.2  -231L    -7.3   -%.I                    -15793   -14111.          -35114.9  -1J03  -20L3  -121.1 -131.5  -sin.1  -aim..
un_M CVIlk SW KIl 121
£  11351. £11.  32:2
liii luubaral,t
offcial t rat,                                                 L -  3.  2L0    161.    13Mg    73.5    64.9                9.9   715.3               1L0    I2.        I3L9    13.6      5.0     IL3     33O
c sua  LOW                                   39.4     3.4   s53       176.7    48.1   61.5    4.9  1361.6,                 AS.    52                 5.0       l.3    5.7    91.4    3.3            1     1.2    33.1
OK                                         3.2    2. 1    37.6    37         42s    22.9    39.4    IL3.9                U.        -                -                -        -        -       -        -
wIEC                                                         -        -        -       -        -        -                -        -                -        -       -        -        -       -        -
IN                                          1.0     2.6      4.6      .0       -   -            -       -
ltwr                                       IL?       7.3       I       .3 n    64       6      3 10.3     1                .7     --LI
_taKammal Ls                                35L  7    333.1    m.    91L7   3091.6  1319.7   992.3  1264.7                60*.3 6a .7               6939      9.3    N4.   34.9 1.61.4  IO     113LJ  ISO
Of lclal Er. cr53ts -blawal                23.2    27.4     44 *       .3   133.4    61.1 2Y                al 1.7  $                           -            -          -
2ng                                        a.3     34.0    3.0    tO         53.0    SL7       47.3   239.5             1l90    5783 e              2.m   241.4    241.    25.9   27S    21.9   299.3
OtIsr fatltatural                         I.3       7.2    21.1   32L        2L31    29.6    19.4   13.2                31.1      -                -        -       -        -        -       -        -
trivl.                                    24.0   34.5  *"LI   79L2I    *9.1   3U5.3   933.2   931.7                     322.9   13.3              34L2    53.0    36.3   632.1   67.4   729.3   945L3
xtaral lilt
NUt httSIu Il a l viS                      634   942.3  127I6   336   =21.9  39L2   432.4   433.5                       53.2  5193.5             *i0.2   t65  636.t  69315.9  1376    735.   061.7
Oflfcial                                  317.4   33.5    40U    3U3    11l2    74.4  8214.I  IL21                     3747.7  3*1.9             Zl6L3 37 431.6  2916.3  3183.1  33.9  5819.5  639L.3
Priate                                    37O   u.3    73.   131.3   33 18.7  26U.J  3921   3251.l                     3453.5  331.6             31.   376.   31.   37713.7   M6    3*6.5  42143.
Udulvud Dot                                 41.3   52.   13023.   2 37.7  3139.3  839.3   24L77   I3L4                   81111.5    1.             10.A   3535   Ia.3  12t.Y  1399.9  U3. I9 377.7
rt 5irvI co 153
Tatel wruer  payut.                         I334    21U.2   27LI   39.8 I        LS   37.7   173.7   9                    333L2   76L1.             714.4  I33*.3   1631.2   6A2.   173.3  1639.3  2e14.4
Itret                                      1L6    67.1   8IL2    174.7   =37          WA7.4   243.    4764              461.3    5I25             44    U.?    me    m.*    as               419.3  11,.7
NMt iries Rio                                9.1      9.3    ILI    33.0    39.3    23.2    26.9    37                    3.0       A.              215.     45.5    4S3      4.9    42        3        217
ht Sri. atolae cIta  35                       -       -        -        *        -       -        - -  -  -                                          21       43.6    29.1   3n.1    21.3        W.1    W17
-wr_  larnt  Mt  a we I- Ns                     LO      7.5      7J       9.6       3 LS     5      L2      L2               [3.5    37                IL7      39.3    13.3      0.4    3.       29.2     U30
wiJlgia                                       7.3     M.       *.       .        _     
t'rcub                                        35      1.9      1.6      -        -       -        -       -                 -       -                 -        -       -        -        -
dirp bturity if M  lo Is 2.6    306                             11.2      9.3    11.       LI    I3L1    11.1                32.      7.6             I37       12.9     3a    12.6    ILI    32.4    32.2
U lidlt   1.  16.9                                            2.        -        -       -        -        -                -        -                -        -       -        -        -       -        -
Prmnol                                        L      9.0      9.1      -        -       -        -        -                -                                      -        -       -            -        -
11 IWlat ital Snca;  =  Projtlm
2*1 ta bre,
3I Projacta   oclaft Srice Payots n 3  & Oeratam ate t
GF 1 *4St Mstamuiq
law 1133
lality Struters  o  lMlt lktstudmq
M'actel da _atla 5 yw s                                                                                   09.3
Principal ha dtua l 9t pan                                                                                91.4
Iotorut StrIetaa Of hit lbtitr1mq
lotwnt Eu wasula 5 satr.                                                                                 Jl.2



- 34 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
Status of Bank Group Operations in Ivory Coast
A. Statement of Bank Loans and Credits (as of June 30, 1985)
US$ million
Loan or       Fiscal                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower      Purpose                Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
One credit fully disbursed                                  -     7.5
Thirty loans fully disbursed                              708.8   -
1347-IVC      1977    Ivory Coast  Urban Development       30.0   -           2.98
1348-T-IVC    1977    Ivory Coast  Urban Development       14.0   -           1.37
1501-IVC      1978    Ivory Coast  Feeder Roads            29.0   -          4.48
1577-IVC      1978    Ivory Coast  Abidjan Sewerage II    33.0   -            8.08
1663-IVC      1979    CCI          Artisans                12.6   -          6.24
1698-IVC      1979    Ivory Coast  Tourism II              14.2   -           4.78
1735-IVC      1979    Ivory Coast  Forestry                18.0   -          4.12
1777-IVC      1980    Ivory Coast  Educatimn III           24.0   -          10.75
1827-IVC      1980    Ivory Coast  Rural Development        9.4   -          6.20
1896-IVC      1981    EECI         Power                   33.0  -          26.48
1914-IVC      198i    Ivory Coast  Highway Sector I       100.0   -         34.76
2048-IVC      1982    Ivory Coast  Urban Development II   51.0   -           24.08
2059-IVC      1982    Ivory Coast  Technical Assistance   16.0   -           10.26
2130-IVC      1982    Ivory Coast  2nd Water Supply        43.0   -          26.86
2167-IVC      1982    Ivory Coast Center West              13.0   -          10.21
2189-IVC      1982    PZTROCI      Petroleum              101.5   -          59.03
2323-IVC      1983    Ivory Coast  Rubber IV               32.2   -         21.88
2496-IVC      1985    Ivory Coast  Forestry II 1/          31.3   -          31.30
2581-IVC      1985    Ivory Coast  Highway Sector II 1/  110.0   -          110.00
Total                             1,424.0   7.50     397.86
Of which has been repaid            132.9    .15
Total now outstanding             1,291.1   7.35
Amount sold                   5.1
of which has been repaid      5.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA            1,291.1   7.35
Total Undisbursed                           397.9            397.9
I/  Not yet effective.



- 35 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
B. Statement of Regional Bank Loans and Credits to Ivory Coast
and Other West African Countries
US$ million
Loan or      Fiscal                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year    Borrower     Purpose                Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
1295-WAF     1976    CIMAO         Regional Clinker       49.5   -           0.00
1490-ICUV    1978    RAN           Regional Railway        23.0  -           0.00
969-WAF     1980    BOAD          Project Preparation      -     3.0        1.93
2242-WAF     1983    BOAD          Regional Development    6.1   -           6.05
1331-WAF     1983    BOAD          Regional Development    -    14.0        12.57 2/
2/  This Credit is denominated In Special Drawil,g Rights.  The figures In
this table have been converted Into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate
prevailing at the time of Credit negotiations.



- 36 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
C. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1985)
Type of               US $ '000
Year    Obligator                       Business            Loan     Equity      Total
1965    Banque Ivoirienne de           Industrial             -       204.0      204.0
Diveloppeuent Industriel       Development Bank
1978    Banque Ivoirienne de           Industrial             -       219.5      219.5
Dfveloppement Industriel       Development Bank
1979    Eta R. Gonfreville, S.A.       Textiles               -       884.7      884.7
1980    Sociftf Ivoirienne d'Engrais   Fertilizers        5,120.0   1,272.0   6,392.0
1980   MS0                             Flour Mill         2b900.0     406.7   3,306.7
Total Gross Coumitments                           8,020.0   2,986.9  11,006.9
Less cancellation, sold or repaid                   640.0       -        640.0
Total Commitments nov held by IFC                 7,380.0   2,986.9  10,366.9



- 37 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
IVORY COAST
FIFTH OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification                June 1981
(b)  Preparation                   By PALMINDUSTRIE and
Government. Completed
April 1984.
tc)  Appraisal Mission             October/November 1984
(d)  Negotiations                  July 1985
Ce)  Planned Effectiveness Date    February 28, 1986
Section II     Special Implementation Actions
None
Section III    Special Loan Conditions
That Government would consult with the Bank on changes
in PALMINDUSTRIE'S management structure (para. 30);
That Government would not dissolve or disestablish FER
or suspend their operations without approval of the
Bank (para. 35);
That Government would implement the palm oil pricing
system acceptable to the Bank (para. 64).



- 38 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
Conditions of loan effectiveness would be:
(a) Establishment of FER under new statutes satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 35);
(b) Effectiveness of the CCCE, CDC, and EIB loans (para.
56);
(c) Execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the
Government and PALMINDUSTRIE and the Government and
PER and the execution of a contractual arrangement
between PALMINDUSTRIE and FER on the modalities of
cooperation between both institutions (para. 56);
(d) Opening of Special Account (para. 61); and
Se) Signature of a Contrat Plan between PALMINDUSTRIE and
the Government (para. 50).
A condition of disbursement would be:
Signature of a Contract by PALMINDUSTRIE for
agricultural research (para. 61).



- 39 -                                           ANNEX IV
IVORY COAST
'Jl'J. O,IL. PALI-.M DAEMV7LI'M7M?PROJECT
MANACFMNWT DEVELOPMERNT PLAN
} lemeit nt                            Action Alrtedy Thke!n                                StIps tabs T ken
PFtablishtment of managemtent         Accounting and administrative procedurea          Action.  systemt  to be rurther refined
itraromatbin and coatt conttol        have been updated.                                generally and developed to allow coat
systems for indutstrial                                                                 compnrisan of man day utilitation by
plantations.                       .ttmprnovd coDsputerised systems have been           June 30. 1985.  Strfr at alil
designed sand inmtalled.                          tppropriate levrla to be trained in the
operation o f thesre mystemt.
Financinl inspection staff hnve been
trained to carry out Jnspection of               Action.  Data procrssing to be
agro-industrial complexes.                       ctntraiited.
Technical inapection hat been                    Action.  Monthly field technical
intenaified.                                     reports to be improved.
Tn-service training programs have been
intentif led.
Organistaion of smallholder           Ratlos of extension agents to frmers              Program Develojpjent.  By June 30. 1985
e.tension services,                   have been increased,                              a plan for the progressive
esrablishment of an improved extension
system would be completed.
In-service training programs have been
intensified.
Action. Staff would be trained in the T
and V Systm  by December 31, 1985.
During July-Dece-ber 1985. the System
would be progressively introduced.
3.  Decentralisation.                     Decentralisation of responsibilities to           Study.  Review of experience of
Sllow greater autonomy at field level.           decsntralisation measures and recommend
saions for the future by December 31.
1985.
4.  Personnel Management.                 A personnel policy is being prepared.             Program Development.  By December 31.
(a)  Personnel Pclicles.                                                                    1985 a comprehensive set of personnel
policie would be drawn up. including
staff incentives and career development
policies.
(b)  Personnel Evaluation                 A bystem is being prepared.
System.
(c)  long term manpuwer                   Preliminary outline plan in progress.             Program Development.  By December 31.
planning and control.                                                                  1985 a manpower plan to include an
Ivorianisation program would be
completed.
(d)  Defitiltion of job                   Definition is underway.                           Program Development.  By December 31,
descriptions and                                                                       1985 definition would be completed and
qualifications,                                                                        staff incumbents and candidates matched
with positions.
(e)  Training                             Technical training needs have been                Study.  Review Of training needs and
(i)  Identificet t11.1 Of            identified for field staff.                      facilities for entire PALMINDUSTRIP
training needs.                                                                  organisation, nasallholders snd farmers
to be completed by June 30. 1986.
(ii) training program.               Terhnical training program contracted to         Programt Development.  By June 30. 1987
1RH0 is in operation,                            training programs would have been
prepared.
Notes: Study - designed to provide rhe analytical base for future action.
Program Development - formulation of specific goals. targets and plans to achieve these.
Action - specific eaesures to achieve plans.
WAPA A
December 1984



- 40 -                                   ANNEX V
IVORY COAST
FIFTH OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
ICB        LCB     OTHER    Total
Agricultural Inputs                    27.4                   2.9     30.3
Seeds                                                         2.9      2.9
Plastic Bags                            1.8                            1.8
Fertilizers                            17.4                           17.4
Chemicals                               4.2                            4.2
Wire Netting                            4.0                            4.0
Equipment                               7.2                            7.2
Vehicles                                2.6
Land Clearing Equipment                 4.6
Housing and Related Buildings                      4.1        3.1 a/   7.2
Estate Area Roads -/                               5.2        5.5 a/  10.7
Access to PlantatioD 5                             3.5        3.7      7.0
Within Plantations                                  1.7       1.8      3.7
Supplies                                                      8.6      8.6
Small Tools                                                   3.3      3.3
Small Water Pumps and Supplies                                4.5      4.5
Furniture and Equipment                                       0.8      0.8
Recurrent Costs                                    17.9      65.8 a/  83.7
Payroll Costs                                                41.5     41.6
Transport                                          17.9       6.0     23.8
Management, Technical
and General Charges                                          18.3     18.3
Oil Mills                              27.4                           27.4
Research                                                      3.3      3.3
Technical Assistance -                                        5.4      5.4
Effluent Treatment                                 0.7                 0.7
PPF                                                           0.4      0.4
Total                           62.0       27.9       95.0    184.9
a/ Includes force account labor totalling $65.6 million.
b/1 Will be carried out on force account.
c/ Most technical assistance contracts signed and experts already in position.
WAPA A
September 1985



IBRD 188O0
[                 0~~~~~~~~~~~A aug                                                                                                              i
X,     d Ie          GUI,GLOsr
\ i 3laotE ~~~~~FIFTH OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
3<> J29  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SWORI
^   -rebX                                          t             t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6sug 0.  .~i jPN6,  .
/   MAURITANIA 3               G  ul/ f        o f       G  u i n e  a            N            =   EAw~~jG.ell  a            3            N
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~4 -LMIEE ,I /                                                                          lad...,1  A,pw Rr        a .-; j,
A, ~~~~                             i~~~j,                                        a   Prdwum Ca~~~~~~~~~~~daNhA
GUNE A                                                            Lak I -  -                                  t.                 '      -
Oce an                             *t  >, e2seF : 
. 4r>e ik,ucIGA/Spt   AAOM  r       -   -^                                                   f ur         ED 
Gull I Gwnaa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VW
P                                  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A






