Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15388-JM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JAMAICA
PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
July 29, 1996
Public Sector Modernization and
Private Sector Development Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



Jonimco l'ishc Sector A fIoderpn_uion Projeec:: S.4R: 796
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currenicy  nit: Dollar (IS)
IIS$1 = i$ 35.58 (Juie 25. 1996)
J$1 = lUS$ (.281 (June 25. 1996)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Mctric System
(in transition)
meter (in.) = 3.28 feet (M.)
kilometer (kin.) = (0.62 mile (mi.)
square kin. (sq. kn.)= 0.386 square mile (sq. mi.)
kilogram  (kg.) = 2.2046 pounds (lbs.)
metric ton (in. tonl)= 1. I US short ton (sh. ton)
liter (Ii) = 0.264178 JS galloni (gal.)
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARP             Administrative Reforms Program
CE(             Chief Executive Officer
ERD             Eltliiency and Retorm  Directorate
EO              European Uniyon
FMIS            Financiial Management Intormnation System
FD              Framework Documeint
FP              Financing Plia
FPMIP           Financial and Program Management Improvement Project
GARP            Government Administrative Reform i rogram
GOJ             Goverinmenit of Jaisiaicai
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
HRN11S          Human Resources Managemnenit Informatioii System
IBRD            Iiiterinatioiail hliak tor Reconistructioni aiid Development
IMCAR           liner-Miniisterial1 Committee for Administrative Reform
MIND            Manaogement Institute for National Development
MEH             Minstry of Environi nent and Ilousimg
MLGW            Ministry of Local Governmenit and Works
MP              Modcrnization Plain
MOFP            Ministry of finance and lPlanning
Mil             Ministry of llcalth
NIBJ            Natioin.il Investimlenit Bank ol Jamaica
ODA             Overseas Development Administration
(IS             Opzationial Informationi System
(PM             Otffice of thIc Prime Minister
(SC             t)lficc of the Services Cominmission
PARP            Public Administrationi Relorm Project
PIIRD           Policy aild Hlumanl Resources Developmenit Grant
PIOJ            Planninlg listitute of Jimnaica
PSDAI          Private Sector Development Adjustment loan
PSMP            Public Sectir Modernization Project
PER             Public Sector Expenditure Review
RGD             Registrar Ge neral's Department
RC              Registrar of Comiipanies
SI              Survey Depanrment
SOE             Statemiment ol Expetiditure
TAXARP          Tax Administration Reform  Project
TPD             Town Planning D)epartmicnlt
UN[)P           Unlited Nations D)evelopmnent Program



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project:: £4R: 7/96
JAMAICA
PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
THE SECTOR                                                                          1
Macro-Economic Environment                                                      1
The Public Sector                                                               2
Structure of the Public Sector                                          2
Composition of the Public Service                                       2
Current Performance of the Public Sector                                4
Factors Affecting Public Sector Performance                             4
A.    Scope of the Public Sector                                 4
B.    Size of the Public Sector                                  4
C.    Bureaucratic Culture                                       5
D.    Human Resource Deficiencies                                5
(i) Low Public Service Remuneration                       5
(ii) Inadequate Training of Public Servants               7
E.    Antiquated Business Processes                              7
F.    Inadequate Physical Resources                              7
G.    Weak Procurement, Contracting and Control Mechanisms       7
GOJ's Policy For Public Sector Modernization                             8
Previous and Ongoing Initiatives to Modernize the Public Sector         9
PROJECT CONCEPT AND COMPOSITION                                                    10
Project Objectives                                                             10
Project Concept                                                                11
Public Sector Modernization: Stage I                                    12
A.    Modernization of Public Sector Entities:
Executive Agencies and Ministries                                12
B.    Privatization                                                     18
(i) Privatization of Water and Sewerage Sector                   19
(ii) Privatization or Contracting Out of Facilities/Services     21
(iii) Institutional Strengthening of NIBJ                       21
C.    Government Procurement, Contracting, Internal Control and Auditing 21
(i) Procurement and Contracting                                 21
(ii) Internal Control                                           22
(iii) External Auditing                                         22
D.    FMIS and the HRMIS                                                23
E.    Communication Campaign                                            24
F.     Development of Stage II of Public Sector Modernization           24
Project Components                                                             24
Project Sustainability                                                         25
Lessons From Previous Bank Experience                                          25
rbiT r:pwt~'n prupud by Memsrs./Mmoss Jit B. S. Gil {Task Manaer), Gary L.iEd Denia   Gua doiA3 PS) wi:iiihJaM tn'bu:
~ Ustrci*WainrieQ(rojectCoprdmaUoit tSO; 9h4LM             "1dorr (LA3PS); Wlro Rie¢ved4( LWt.J)i l
iHi, idi Mai5 (CFSPS  and hrla- Phar  Sayoda Cu, H  Sll Mi                      M    
1 (e1i (C>mauRa4 Mr. Mike gtema and b4nA Wai ry SbMtiy lA4    lfited at  i Reewenw . bid   1i
Aiua and Robert Crwn waru the respsible Country DkecW, Sedar Division ChiaW Pr. Abise. r, Ivy-..-



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project:: SAR: 7/96
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Contd.A
PROJECT CONTEXT                                                                     26
Rationale For Bank Involvement                                               26
ENVIRONMENT                                                                         26
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING                                                          26
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                               28
A. Institutional Arrangements                                                28
B. Project Implementation                                                    30
C. Procurement                                                               30
D) Disbursement and Special Account                                          33
D. Accounting and Audits                                                     34
PROJECT RISKS AND BENEFITS                                                           34
SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS                                       35
Agreements Reached at Negotiations                                           35
Loan Conditions                                                              36
A. Conditions of Effectiveness                                        36
B. Conditions of Disbursement                                         37
Recommendation                                                                37
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES                                                          38
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1:      Comparative Pay Data For Selected Positions                             6
Table 2:      Estimated Project Costs                                               27
Table 3:      Financing Plan                                                        28
Table 4:      Financing Plan By Category of Expenditure                             28
Table 5:      Summary of Procurement Arrangements                                   32
Table 6:      Procurement Prior Review and SOE Thresholds                           33
Table 7:      Disbursement by Category of Expenditure                               34
Table 8:      Estimated Disbursements By Fiscal Year                                34
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1:      Key Project Performance Indicators
Annex 2:      Background Information on Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministries
Annex 3:      Performance Indicators for Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministries
Annex 4:      Indicative List of Facilities and Services Identified for Privatization/Contracting Out
Annex 5:      Project Costs By Component
Annex 6:      Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 7:      Letter of Development Policy of the Government of Jamaica
Annex 8:      Statement of Government on the Nature and Extent of Autonomy to be Granted
Annex 9:      Proposal for Decentralizing the Machinery of Government - The Establishment of
Executive Agencies



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project:: SAR: 7/96
PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Jamaica.
Implementing Agencies:  Cabinet Secretariat, Office of the Prime Minister, in coordination with
the Ministry of Finance and Planning, Ministry of Environment and
Housing, Ministry of Local Government and Works, National
Investment Bank of Jamaica, the Contractor General, the Auditor
General and targeted government agencies.
Beneficiaries:           Central Government Ministries, Departments, Agencies and
Statutory Bodies.
Poverty:                 Not Applicable.
Loan Amount:             US$ 28.4 million.
Terms:                   Repayable in 17 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard interest rate for LIBOR based US Dollar single currency
loans.
Commitment Fee:          0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
Financing Plan::
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ._ ._ . . .  . o a ... .   . .. .   . .  
Governmenti             19,495           6,105           25,600
IBRD                     1,850          26,550          28,400
ODA Parallel
Financing                    0           3,000            3,000
Total                   21,345          35,655           57,000
Staff Appraisal Report:  15388 JM
Project Identification Number: JM-PA-7490
Includes parallel financing of approximately USS 3.0 million expected from the European Union.






Jamaica Public Sector Afodernization project:: SAR: 7/96
JAMAICA
PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION PROJECT
THE SECTOR
Macro-Economic Environment
I .    Jamaica is an island country in the Caribbean, with a total area of approximately 11,000 square
kilometers and a strong natural resource base. The economy is highly sensitive to international price
and demand changes, primarily due to the nature of its productive base and its dependence on imported
oil for commercial energy consumption. Jamaica's principal economic activities are tourism,
manufacturing, bauxite/alumina mining and, in employment terms, agriculture. It has a population of
approximately 2.5 million, with about 55% of the people living in urban areas. The labor force is
reasonably well-educated and skilled. A per capita income of US$ 1,5601, for 1994, places Jamaica in
the group of lower-middle income countries.
2.    In the decade following independence in 1962, Jamaica enjoyed strong GDP growth, averaging
about 5% per annum. However, from 1973 through the mid-1980s, the economy experienced
sustained contraction as a result of external shocks and domestic policies. Increase in oil prices; the
impact of recession in the industrialized countries on the price of sugar and alumina, the country's
major exports; and high international interest rates had a negative impact on the economy. At the same
time, the government started a process of expansion of the role of the state in national life. This
process resulted in a bloated and inefficient public sector. The overall result was an erosion of private
sector confidence, a reduction in investment and a continuous outflow of capital and human resources.
3.    In the second half of the 1980s, an effort to stem the decline resulted in stabilization programs
and a progressive adoption of market-oriented policy reforms. These efforts yielded some positive
results, with average GDP growth being 4. 1 % per annum for the period 1986-91. In the 1990s, and
particularly in the past two years, the Government accelerated the implementation of the reform
agenda. The main objectives were to lower inflation, enhance international competitiveness, improve
public finances, maintain adequate level of international reserves and increase per capita income. The
reform program has been supported by multi-lateral institutions, including the IBRD, and the Paris
Club. By mid-1995, the government had achieved significant results. A budget surplus was
maintained for four consecutive years and Bank of Jamaica losses were reduced. The foreign exchange
regime was liberalized. Inflation declined to 1 % per month. Import tariffs were brought within a
range of 5-35% and most trade monopolies and quantitative restrictions were eliminated. Reforms in
tax policy and administration were initiated. The privatization program was stepped up. The external
current account balance moved from a deticit of 7.3%' of GDP in 1991 to a near balance by end-1994.
Private transfers and capital inflows doubled, as compared to those in 1990, to approximately 22.9%'
GDP in 1994. While external debt remains high (93.6%1 of GDP in 1994), debt rescheduling reduced
debt service to more manageable levels.
iSource: Planiing Iistitute of Jamaica



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project. .SAR: 7/96                                      2
4.     Despite these positive achievements, the macro-economic environment continues to be fragile,
as events since July 1995 indicate. High inflation has returned, international reserves have been drawn
down to stabilize the depreciating Jamaican Dollar, large wage awards to public servants and support
to troubled financial firms have caused the budget surplus to dwindle and external imbalances have
widened due to a jump in consumer imports, high interest rates and a weak financial sector. GDP
growth in the period 1991-95 has remained low at 1% per annum.
The Public Sector
Structure of the Public Sector
5.     The Government of Jamaica (GOJ) is constituted on the basis of a written Constitution,
adopted in 1962. Its structure closely follows the Westminster model. The Queen is the Sovereign,
represented by the Governor General. The government is made up of three independent branches.
The Legislative Branch consists of the Senate and the House of Representatives. The Judicial Branch
consists of the Privy Council, the Court of Appeals, the Supreme Court, the Resident Magistrate
Courts, the Family Court and the Revenue Court. The Executive Branch is led by the Prime Minister
who is elected by the majority party in the House of Representatives. The Prime Minister appoints
Cabinet Ministers, who head Ministries dealing with specific portfolios. In some Ministries, Ministers
of State and Parliamentary Secretaries are also appointed to assist the Cabinet Ministers. At the central
level in each Ministry are various divisions responsible for policy formulation, monitoring of
implementation, setting standards and norms and performing corporate functions, such as planning,
budgeting and accounting. Each Ministry has a number of operational Departments and Agencies,
that implement sectoral policies. In addition, it may have Statutory Bodies and Public Companies
associated with it. In the thirty three years since independence, the scope and size of the Executive
Branch has grown substantially. At present, besides the Office of the Prime Minister, there are 12
Ministries, 31 departments and agencies and more than 300 statutory bodies and public companies.
Under the Constitution, certain autonomous bodies have also been created, notably the Auditor General
and the Office of the Services Commission (OSC). Figure 1 indicates the overall organization of GOJ.
Composition of the Public Service:
6.     The regular civil service consists of approximately 30,7502 employees. In addition, 21,800
teachers, 6,800 health services workers and 11,200 security personnel, policemen and fire fighters,
though not belonging to the civil service, are a part of the central establishment. There are an
estimated 13,870 employees in other public sector entities. In general, employees of these entities are
paid more than employees on the central establishment, but enjoy lesser security of tenure. The public
sector accounted for 14% of jobs in the 1980s and, even after subsequent downsizing, it represents 7%
of jobs in the economy. Expenditure on personnel is the government's largest single recurrent cost
item after interest payments. The wage bill for FY 1996-97, including retroactive payments, would be
J$22.72 billion, or 64%2 of non-debt recurrent expenditures.
7.     The regular civil service in Jamaica is patterned on the traditional British model.
Appointments are made through the OSC. The civil service serves the government of the day,
regardless of which party forms the government. It is expected to provide objective and impartial
2 Source: Cabinet Office (Efficiency and Reform Directorate).



Jamaica Public Secror Modernization Project:: SAR: 7/96                                                             3
advice to the political executive, help formulate policies in accordance with the priorities of the
government and, thereafter, ensure that these are efficiently implemented. The service is accountable
to Parliament through the Ministers. In order to ensure its independence, the civil service has been
granted considerable security of tenure. Normally, civil servants can be removed only after protracted
disciplinary proceedings in which the OSC is closely involved (removal in the context of a
reorganization is relatively easier). The Cabinet Secretary heads the civil service. The Financial
Secretary is responsible for the administration of the Ministry of Finance and Planning. All other
Ministries are headed by Permanent Secretaries at the administrative level.
Figure 1: The Government of Jamaica
,-.   -.... .....   . .. ..
- ece+- )         -Th- -rere----Xn  
-   fr cWfOVFf0F                                                 ades
Commission                                                   iea
LEG-S ---T--
.~~.....| ...   ._x                                               .                             l
. | | ..~~~~~~~... JUl.-I;  . --Y
.- . . . ] | -- ............. .:.              d=.           . . . . .   . . . . . . .. .............= 
'  '             l ..,...,.. ,, w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... '."''...E....                   . 
w - .-- v | 2 2 . . ! '- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ......        . ..   . .   . . .     .   ''|''''''':'1- 
.    .   . . 8gg     . .   . .   . . . . .   -. i   . -- : :
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.............  ..
I ~~~~~~~~~.   .   ..   .   . .
l ~~~~~~~~. . ... . ...... .. ........ ....... ......
I . .  .~~~~    ~~~~~ ... .. ....  . .....
..~~~~~~~~~~.                    .   .   .   . .   .   .   . .   .   .   .
t~~~~~~~~~~~.    . .  . . _ ....
w     . ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~... .....



Jamaica Public Sector Alodernization Project:: s4R: 7/96                                          4
Current Performance of the Public Sector
8.     In spite of its numerous agencies and employees, the performance of the public sector is
inadequate in many critical areas. The general level of efficiency and effectiveness of public entities is
very low. The quality of service to the public is poor and is characterized by cumbersome procedures,
long delays, unsatisfactory resolution of problems faced by clients, high private costs of compliance
with laws and regulations, discourteous behavior and indifference to the convenience of the public.
Public enterprises engaged in commercial ventures are, with a few exceptions, unprofitable, badly
managed and uncompetitive. They are also a recurrent fiscal burden on the exchequer. The public
perception of government was summed up by the Report of the Committee of Advisors on Government
Structure, also known as the Nettleford Report 3, as follows:
I .. considerable concerns have been expressed about the poor quality of government in
Jamaica. These largely centered around over-concentration of decision-making, which
consigned the rest of the community to a largely peripheral role in the management of affairs;
the low quality of the civil service; and the over-bureaucratization of its methods of work
leading to a compliance rather than service orientation in its dealings with the public. In
general the impression conveyed was of an over-manned, slow, lumbering bureaucracy
characterized by low morale..... "
Factors Affecting Public Sector Performance
A.     Scope of the Public Sector
9.     Starting with the 1970's, government ventured into a large number of economic and
commercial activities which were far removed from its core functions. This was in line with the then
prevailing thinking that economic development required active involvement of the government in the
productive sectors, the establishment of government owned enterprises, subsidies to the private sector
and heavy protection of industries engaged in import substitutions. Some of the areas that public
enterprises became involved in included: fish farming, mango orchards, distilleries, housing
construction, shopping centers, hotels, hospital laundry, airlines, old-age homes, petrochemicals,
garment manufacturing and so on. In most of these areas the public sector has no comparative
advantage over the private sector. On the contrary, in the majority of cases, it positively lacks the
skills and incentives needed to run these business enterprises efficiently. This has resulted in low
efficiency and productivity in many government agencies. Since the early 1980's, GOJ has actively
taken up a systematic program of privatization to reduce the scope of the public sector. However, the
scope of the public sector still remains very wide.
B.     Size of the Public Sector
10.    For a population of 2.5 million, Jamaica has about 350 public institutions including Ministries,
departments, agencies, statutory bodies and public corporations. Far from contributing to efficiency,
the proliferation of entities has caused a deterioration of public sector performance. With the
establishment of various statutory bodies and public companies, many functions have been transferred
from regular government departments to these entities. Since many of the heads of these bodies report
3 Nctitford, R. M. et al. 1992. Report of Committee of Advisors on Government Structure (Chairman Mr. R. M. Nettleford). Kingston.



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project : SAR. 7/96                                           5
directly to the minister concerned, this has caused a steady erosion of the ability of the Permanent
Secretary (PS), who is the administrative linchpin of a Ministry, to contribute to policy formulation
and monitoring and control of activities falling within the Ministry's purview. Even where line entities
report to the PS, their sheer number extends beyond her/his span of control, causing a serious
breakdown in financial and operational accountability. Further, the plethora of entities has made inter-
ministerial and inter-agency coordination very difficult. It has also caused duplication of functions and
overlapping authority. From the administrative point of view this means wastage of resources and
jurisdictional contlicts. For the citizen, it means dealing with multiple authorities for getting even
simple things done.
C.     Bureaucratic Culture
11.    The Jamaican public sector displays characteristics commonly found in most established
bureaucracies. Public Sector entities are governed by rigid rules of business. Compliance with the
rules takes precedence over achievement of organizational objectives. This reduces responsiveness to
emerging situations and discourages innovation. Decision-making is hierarchical. Superiors are
generally reluctant to delegate authority, while juniors are reluctant to use even the limited powers that
are delegated to them for fear of being penalized for mistakes that may occur in the process. The
result is that most decisions get pushed upwards and disposal of even routine matters takes a long time.
Although a beginning has been made to shift organizational emphasis from inputs to outputs and
outcomes through Program Budgeting and Corporate Planning, as yet, public sector entities are not
strictly held responsible for achieving pre-determined performance targets. The security of tenure
enjoyed by civil servants shields them from the worst consequences of poor performance. It also limits
managers' ability to enforce high productivity standards. Finally, most bureaucrats regard themselves
as policy makers, controllers or regulators, rather than facilitators. Public service orientation in day-
to-day functioning is minimal. Bureaucrats are, for the most part, indifferent to the costs and
inconvenience suffered by the public due to their inefficiency or unresponsiveness.
D.     Human Resource Deficiencies
(i)    Low Public Service Remuneration
12.    As alluded to in the Nettleford Report, supra, the low quality of human resources is one of the
major weaknesses of the public sector. The single most important factor in this regard is low
remuneration. There is a wide gap between wages in many areas of the public sector and those in the
labor market as a whole, especially, at managerial and technical levels. Table 1 indicates the salary
differential for some key positions. Even though, parastatal bodies have a better compensation
structure, in many cases they too lag behind the private sector. The situation has been worsened by
severe salary erosion in recent years on account of inflation.
13.    Low salaries make it extremely difficult for the public sector to recruit persons with the
requisite skills, especially, for technical and managerial positions at the entry and middle levels that
require tertiary education in disciplines such as applied sciences, accounting or management. Even
when promising individuals join, they do not stay for long. The difficulty of making ends meet and
the availability of better options soon prompt their migration to the private sector, often after they have
received formal and on-the- job training at government expense. Thus, the public sector does not
attract or retain the best and brightest. Barring a few high caliber people, who remain in the public



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project:: SAR: 7/96                                                              6
sector either due to a personal affinity for public service, or due to promising career prospects based
upon their individual circumstances, for the most part, the public service is made up of persons who
are content to settle down in a rut - following rules, producing a little above the minimum that is
expected of them and, generally, staying out of trouble. There is a dearth of inspiring leaders, creative
problem-solvers and entrepreneurial risk-takers who would aggressively seek and produce excellence.
Table 1. Comparative Pay Data For Selected Positions, April 1995 (J Sr'
Gr.ou.pt--  C;0:ff0ff0   0            o er ntral                    Matket0S  CSta    o    h
:tit;itt- 0C il;;t 7i0t: :    0t   00     0 : :   :d :   Salary   at:   70        0  i  t CEg 0t  0  f-tt-  .   ~f^ ; . . e t rM r
SENIOR EXECUTIVE G ROtJP
PERMAN ENT S ECR E'1ARY                          I1,253,391       2,332,385             54 %   Permanent Secrtary/CEO
SEG IV                                              784,234        1.198.943            65%   Division Head/Vice
President
SEGIII                                              648,988        1,049,478            62%   Senior Manager/ Asstt.
VP
SEG 1                                               529,224         627,649             84 %   Ma nager/Manager
PROGRAM MGMT. & ADMIN.
GROUP
PMA IV                                              271,617         611,557             44%   Sr.
Administrator/Manager
PMA mI                                              217,880         464,187             47 %   Professional/Credit
l  Controller
i PMA 11                                            188,214         381,400             49 %   Jr. Professional/
Management Trainee
FINANCIAL ADMIN & ACCTS GROUP
ACCOUNTANT LEVEL 2                                  459,624         613,897             75%   Chief AccountanV/
Financial Controller
ACCOUNTANT LEVEL I                                  328,303         504,161             65%   AccountanV Accounting
l                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Supervisor.
APPLIED SCIENCES GROUP
ASG VI                                              766,040         855,571             90%   Chief Engineer./Chief
Engineer
NATURAL, PHYSICAL & SOCIAL
SCIENCES GROUP
NPS TV                                              306,578         643,096             48%   Sr. Professional/Qualit
Assurance Manager
TECHNICAL GROUP
TSS GT VIII                                         314.243         665,910             47%   Sr. Professional/Technical
Services Manager
Note: SEG, PMA, ASG etc. are nomenclatures for different grades in each Group.
Source: Cabinet Offce (Efficiency arnd Reformn Directorate).
14.     Inadequate remuneration has led to a large number of vacancies, especially, at the key and
critical level. In 1993, there were about 3,200 vacancies in the central establishment, of which about
4CC USS  =                                          3 0 33.58 (une 25, 1996).
Based on 1992 Compensation Survey conducted by the Ministry of Public Service and Environment. 1994 figures derived by using a
multiplier of 1.65 to account for increases in private sector salaries since the survey.



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project:: SAR: 7/96                                      7
725 were in key positions. In addition to the unfilled posts, there are another 3,200 positions that are
held by acting or temporary holders who, often, do not possess the skills needed for the job. The large
number of vacancies have had a damaging impact on organizational performance. Either tasks that
need to be done are not done at all, or they are done by unqualified or over-burdened individuals who
cannot do justice to them. Consequently, efficiency and the quality of service suffer.
(ii)   Inadequate Training of Public Servants
15.    GOJ has been attempting to bridge the skill gap caused by low remuneration and attrition
through in-house training. The Management Institute for National Development (MIND) is the
Government's main training institution. It was established in 1994 by the merger of four specialized
training facilities viz. Administrative Staff College, Finance and Accounting College, Secretarial and
Clerical College and the Mandeville Outreach Training Center. Training for revenue officers is
provided by the Revenue Board and the Revenue Protection Division. Although these institutions are
doing a commendable job, they face severe constraints. Curricula of many courses are old and
inappropriate for the situations being faced by public servants in the field. Teaching faculty is limited
and not fully trained. Training facilities are inadequate. As a result, the general skill level in the
public service continues to be low contributing to inefficiency and ineffectiveness.
E.    Antiquated Business Processes
16.    Both managerial and operational business processes in the public sector need re-engineering.
Most of the current business processes were established decades ago and continue unchanged, in spite
of major changes in the external environment and the role of the public sector. Many that could be
conveniently completed in one step or location are fragmented between different organizations and
between different sections in a given organization. This necessitates multiple hand-offs, from one
official or organization to another, which serve to introduce major delays without adding much value.
Also, many processes involve duplicate or infructuous work and avoidable references to higher
authorities. Operations in most departments are still pre-dominantly manual and create an environment
where officials have the discretion and ability to delay and, therefore, to extract rents. In effect,
prevailing business processes increase administrative costs for the public sector and transactions costs
for the private sector. In addition, they lead to avoidable harassment of the public.
F.     Inadequate Physical Resources
17.    The physical infrastructure in many public sector entities fails to provide a motivating work
environment. Many buildings are old and congested and lack facilities for employees. In agencies like
the Registrar General, that are custodians of important records, record-keeping facilities are
rudimentary. This affects the security of documents as well as their retrieval. In many departments
there is a dearth of operational equipment, such as communication systems for customs agents at the
airport or vehicles for agencies involved in field work. Physical resource deficiencies lower the
overall level of public sector performance.
G.     Weak Procurement, Contracting and Control Mechanisms
18.   In 1992, the Supply Division of the Ministry of Finance and Planning (MOFP) was closed down
and procurement of goods was delegated to the respective Ministries, departments and entities, with the



Jamaica Public Sector Alodernization Projecl:: S4R: 7196                                          8
Inspectorate Division of the Ministry of Finance retaining some administrative responsibilities. Contracting
for civil works is the responsibility of the Ministry of Local Government and Works, although several
Ministries and departments manage their own construction projects. The Contractor-General, a public
statutory body, is responsible tor overseeing and investigating all aspects of contracts relating to civil works.
Under the Contractor General's Act he does not have any executive authority and can only report his
findings to Parliament. However, recently steps have been intitated to amend this Act and enhance the
authority of the Contractor General. The procurement of services is currently done by all Ministries and
departments.
19.    Since the decentralization of procurement, there has been no government body officially designated
to coordinate procurement policies and regulations regarding goods, works and services and to monitor their
implementation. Although the Ministry of Finance has retained some responsibility with regard to the
administration of procurement of goods, it does not have the required professional resources to effectively
carry out this task. Also, it has no mandate to intervene in and coordinate the contracting of works and
services. Most entities have failed to establish procurement units and "Procurement Committees" staffed by
qualified professionals and supported by approved procedures or guidelines. Current procurement and
contracting policies and procedures are outdated, confusing and, frequently, misunderstood. This results in
uncertainty and ambiguity as to which regulations and procedures apply and whether they apply equally for
goods, works and services. Lack of understanding of the current procedures leads to inconsistency in the
interpretation of these procedures within and between Ministries and entities. The current financial
thresholds for decision-making at operational levels are quite low. This results in delays due to multi-
layered reviews and approvals. It also encourages contract fragmentation by Ministries and entities in order
to avoid competitive bidding and reviews by approving authorities. Many public entities lack expertise in
preparing bidding documents, developing accurate specifications, conducting bid evaluations and contract
negotiations. There is no central database of performance of different contractors and suppliers.
Consequently, in awarding contracts, due weightage is not given to their past performance or capacity to
take on new projects. There are serious shortcomings in contract management as a result of which a large
number of projects face cost-overruns and execution delays, inviting public criticism. Finally, inventory
storage and management suffer from major deficiencies. As a result of these factors government does not
get the best value for the huge expenditures incurred annually on procurement of goods and services and on
civil works.
20.    Weaknesses of systems and procedures in procurement and conrtracting are accentuated by
deficiencies in internal control systems. The internal audit function in different entities is, generally, weak.
Consequently, internal auditors are unable to flag errors, ommissions or malpractices in an effective and
timely manner. The weakness of internal control systems leads to low accountability and, in some
instances, corruption. External auditing is the constitutional responsibility of the Auditor General.
However, even though various entities are progressively moving towards computerized accounts, the office
of the Auditor General lacks the expertise to audit such accounts.
GOJ's Policy for Public Sector Modernization
21.    The government recognizes that the continuing weaknesses of the public sector will offset the
benefits of the economic reforms that the country has implemented in recent years. Also, public sector
inefficiencies will hinder the development of the private sector. For it to play an effective role in the
new environment, the nature and orientation of the public sector needs to change significantly. It



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Projecr:: SAR: 7/96                                   9
needs to focus on its core competencies and become more performance-oriented, cost-effective and
accountable.
22.   The essential elements of GOJ's policy for public sector modernization are: (a) improving the
quality of service provided by essential government agencies to internal and external clients; (b)
enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of central government Ministries; (c) rationalizing the size
and scope of the public sector by privatizing entities and contracting out services that can be run more
efficiently by the private sector; (d) enhancing transparency and accountability in government
procurement, contracting and financial management; (e) creating an effective regulatory environment
that would encourage orderly private sector development; (f) improving tax administration; and (g)
strengthening local government. The Letter of Development Policy, dated February 23, 1996, (Annex
7) explains GOJ's development objectives.
Previous and Ongoing Initiatives to Modernize the Public Sector
23.   Efforts to reform the public sector have gone in parallel with the economic reform program.
Privatization was initiated in Jamaica in 1981 with a view to (i) increase efficiency of enterprises
through change of ownership; (ii) eliminate the fiscal drain caused by poorly performing public
enterprises; (iii) optimize the use of GOJ's limited management resources; (iv) create opportunities to
access foreign capital, technology and markets; and (v) widen the base of ownership and equity
participation in the economy. The process was intensified in 1991, when 64 entities were identified for
privatization. Out of these 47 entities covering a wide spectrum of sectors, such as hotels, banks,
sugar mills, airlines and telecommunications, have been divested. Government is in the process of
privatizing the power company and the railway. The Bank-financed Private Sector Development
Adjustment Loan (PSDAL) has had a major impact on the privatization program. The program is now
entering a new phase with the objective of expanding the role of the private sector in infrastructure as
well as transferring to it operational responsibilities in selected public administration and social areas.
In April 1995, GOJ approved a new list of 26 entities/activities slated for privatization. Another
indicative list of 26 public facilities/services that are candidates for privatization or contracting out has
also been drawn up. In view of the severe deficiencies experienced in the performance of public
enterprises engaged in water supply and sewerage, GOJ has also initiated steps aimed at bringing in
private participation in this sector.
24.   In order to improve management and performance of government entities, the Public
Administration Reform Project (PARP) was undertaken with Bank assistance between 1984-88. It
aimed at strengthening human and financial resource management in government and restructuring the
Ministry of Finance. This project was largely unsuccessful in creating sustained improvements, mainly
on account of the change in the government's and the Bank's commitment to the direction of the
initiatives undertaken. It was followed by the on-going Financial and Program Management
Improvement Project (FPMIP), which became effective in 1991. The project's objectives include
strengthening planning and budgeting throughout government; improving personnel policies; and
implementing a Financial Management Information System (FMIS) and a Human Resource
Management Information System (HRMIS). Considerable progress has been made under this project.
All Ministries and departments have begun preparing annual Corporate Plans and Program Budgets;
the accounting system has been adapted to program budgeting; and the financial reporting system has
been rationalized. The FMIS has been commissioned in all but three Ministries. The pilot modules of
the HRMIS have been installed at 16 sites. A strong relationship between corporate planning and



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project.: SAR: 7/96                                   l 0
program budgeting is, however, yet to be established. Also, further work needs to be done to enhance
the FMIS and the HRMIS and extend their coverage. Additional funds are needed for this purpose. In
1994, a comprehensive reform of tax departments was initiated through the Tax Administration Reform
Project (TAXARP). This project aims to broaden the tax base; facilitate voluntary compliance; and
improve the effectiveness of the tax administration in assessment and collection of taxes and control of
tax evasion. One major consultancy, which has laid the ground work for reorganization of the tax
departments on functional lines, has been completed. Work on development of a unique taxpayer
identification number is at an advanced stage and the development of an integrated tax administration
computer system is expected to begin shortly. In the context of the PSDAL, significant improvements
in import and export clearance procedures of the Customs Department have been achieved, although
much remains to be done in the area of organization and management of the department and
computerization of its operations.
25.    GOJ has also taken various other steps, outside the framework of donor-supported projects, to
streamline Ministries, achieve greater coherence in policy formulation, improve inter-agency
coordination and enhance quality of service rendered by public entities. These steps include
restructuring of Ministries in January 1995; creation of the post of Cabinet Secretary, as Head of the
Civil Service, to improve the quality of advice available to the Prime Minister and Cabinet;
establishment of the Efficiency and Reform Directorate to strengthen management, especially personnel
management, in government agencies; and revival of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on
Administrative Reforms (IMCAR) and the Permanent Secretaries' Board to improve coordination
between government agencies. In December 1994, a Citizen's Charter was laid before Parliament
emphasizing the obligation of public entities to improve the quality of service provided by them to the
people. Twelve entities having extensive dealings with the public were selected as pilot agencies for
customer service improvement. The progress made by these agencies is regularly monitored by the
Cabinet Secretariat. Finally, in an effort to improve the quality of top management in government
agencies, twenty-three well-qualified persons were recently selected from the public as well as private
sectors for appointment to senior management positions in the public service, including those of
Permanent Secretary.
PROJECT CONCEPT AND COMPOSITION
Project Objectives
26.    The project aims to support GOJ's efforts to (i) bring about major improvements in the quality
of service provided by selected public agencies; (ii) improve the ability of selected Ministries to (a)
formulate sound sector policies, technical standards and operational norms, (b) effectively monitor and
evaluate downstream agencies to ensure that desired policy objectives are achieved, and (c) efficiently
perform corporate management functions; (iii) continue the rationalization of the public sector through
(a) private participation in the water supply and sewerage sector and (b) privatization or contracting out
of other facilities or services where government has no comparative advantage; (iv) improve efficiency,
value for money and transparency in government procurement and contracting; (v) enhance public
sector accountability by strengthening internal and external controls; (vi) improve the quality of
financial and personnel management in the public sector through computerized information systems and
(vii) prepare the next stage of the modernization process to (a) extend the reforms initiated by the
project in the pilot agencies and Ministries to the rest of the public sector and (b) introduce other
systemic improvements in public sector management. Regulatory reform is proposed to be addressed



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project:: SAR: 7/96                                   1 1
through two other IBRD initiatives: the Regulatory Reform and Private Investment Finance Facility and
the Financial Sector Review. Support to the local government reform effort is proposed to be provided
by the Parish Infrastructure Project that is was appraised in May 1996. Complementary efforts to
strengthen the Ministry of Local Government and Works at the central level are included in the present
project.
Eroject Conceg
27.   The project concept went through significant changes as the project evolved. Initially, it was
proposed to undertake a comprehensive reform of the public service grading and salary structure, with
a view to improve compensation levels vis-a-vis market comparators and enable GOJ to attract and
retain qualified persons. This idea was given up, subsequently, as an across-the-board salary increase
for all public servants implied a significant recurrent cost (estimated at about US$ 30 million per
annum for upgrading salaries of posts, with salary mid-point equal to or greater than US$ 2,000, to
80% of market comparators) without any guarantee that it would lead to an improvement in public
sector performance. Also, it was noted that low salaries were not the only cause of poor public sector
performance. Inadequate autonomy, lack of accountability, outmoded business processes and
insufficient physical resources also affected efficiency and effectiveness of public entities. In addition,
systemic weaknesses pertaining to procurement, contracting, internal and external control had a public
sector-wide negative impact on performance.
28.   It was, therefore, decided to adopt a more targeted approach that would create a tighter link
between inputs, outputs and outcomes. The public sector modernization process was seen to have two
major thrusts. First, entity-specific reforms that would modernize the functioning of individual
government institutions. Second, systemic reforms that would bring about improvements in public
sector performance as a whole. The project has been designed around these two parallel approaches.
29.    Limitations in absorptive capacity dictated that instead of attempting to modernize the public
sector at one go, it would be better to break up the modernization process into two stages. In Stage I,
a small number of high priority entities would be taken up for modernization, on a pilot basis. In
addition, systemic reforms in three important areas viz. privatization; strengthening of government
procurement, contracting, internal control and auditing; and extension and refinement of financial and
human resource management systems would be pursued. In Stage II, entity-specific reforms would be
extended to the remaining public sector entities, besides undertaking additional systemic reforms as
needed. This approach would allow adaptation of the modernization strategy to the Jamaican reality;
reduce risk associated with innovation and facilitate the extension of the reform process through the
demonstration effect. The present project will finance execution of activities related to Stage I of the
modernization process and the preparation of Stage II.
30.   The modernization strategy for the operational agencies and Ministries has been developed in
close consultation with the Office of the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Finance and Planning, the
OSC, the Solicitor General and the Ministry of Enviromnent and Housing, the Ministry of Local
Government and Works, and the management and staff of the pilot operational agencies. Various
senior management retreats and seminars for public servants have been organized to build a wide
support base for the reform. Valuable support was also received from the UK Overseas Development
Agency (ODA).



Jamaica Public Secror Modernizatlon Project:: SAR: 7/96                                     12
Public Sector Modernization: Stage I
(A)   Modernization of Public Sector Entities: Executive Agencies and Ministries
31.   In Stage 1, public entities at two levels will be targeted: (a) agencies providing services to
internal and external clients, which would be converted into "Executive Agencies", and (b) central
divisions of government Ministries that are engaged in policy formulation, monitoring, coordination
and corporate management. The modernization process would aim to empower managers of these
entities by granting them considerably enhanced autonomy in managerial, financial, personnel and
operational management, in return for strict accountability for pre-determined performance targets.
This approach draws upon the experience of other Commonwealth countries, especially the UK, who
have, in the recent past, attempted fundamental changes in public sector management on these lines.
Side by side with reorienting the management of the pilot agencies, well-defined institution building
investments would be made to ensure that the current resource gaps do not continue to hamper
performance.
32.    Legal Framework: The legal framework governing financial and personnel management in
GOJ was examined to determine the feasibility of granting increased autonomy to public entities
(Annex 9). It was found that, but for a few minor amendments needed in specific Acts pertaining to
some of the targeted agencies, the Constitution, the Financial Administration and Audit Act and the
Civil Service Establishment Act have enough flexibility to enable the government to grant additional
autonomy to executive agencies through administrative orders. It is proposed to use this flexibility to
create the pilot executive agencies. Be that as it may, it is recognized that in the long-term it would be
preferable to design and enact a self-contained legal framework specifically for executive agencies that
would put the autonomy granted to them on a firmer footing and reduce the risk of it being withdrawn
in the future through administrative fiat. The development of such a legal framework would..........
however, require observation of the experience of the pilot agencies and building of a wide political
and administrative consensus. This process will be supported by the project. In the meantime,
suitable remedies have been incorporated in the Loan Agreement to guard against unwarranted
withdrawal of autonomy granted to the entities covered by the project.
(a) Executive Agencies
33.    GOJ has selected the following pilot entities for conversion into executive agencies. These
were chosen on account of the important services they perform for the public or for other
governmental institutions, and the urgent need to improve the quality of their services. "Entities
marked (*) are also amongst the agencies selected as pilots to implement the Citizen's Charter, referred
to earlier.
*  Planning Institute of Jamaica (Ministry of Finance and Planning).
*  Jamaica Customs Department* (Ministry of Finance and Planning).
*  Office of Titles* (Ministry of Environment and Housing).
*  Town Planning Department* (Ministry of Environment and Housing).
*  Surveys Department (Ministry of Environment and Housing).
*  Jamaica Information Service (Office of the Prime Minister).
I JAMPRESS (Office of the Prime Minister).
*  Registrar General's Department* (Ministry of Health).



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Prolect:: SAR: 7/96                                  13
*  Registrar of Companies* (Ministry of Industry, Investment and Commerce).
*  Administrator General (Ministry of National Security and Justice).
*  Management Institute for National Development (Efficiency and Reform Directorate, Office of
the Prime Minister).
At Appraisal, provision had been made for the selection of two additional entities for
conversion to executive agencies in the course of project implementation. During negotiations,
it was indicated by GOJ that it had identified Jamaica Promotions Corporation - JAMPRO
(Ministry of Industry, Information and Commerce) and the Construction Division (Ministry of
Local Government and Works) for this purpose.
34.   The British Overseas Development Agency (ODA) will provide parallel financing of UK
Pounds 2.0 million (about US$ 3.0 million) to finance consulting services for four of the above-
mentioned agencies, namely Registrar General's Department; Registrar of Companies; Administrator
General; and Management Institute for National Development. Goods and training for these agencies
will, however, be financed by the Bank and GOJ. The European Union (EU) is also expected to
provide parallel grant financing of about US$ 3 million for the Planning Institute of Jamaica and the
Construction Division of the Ministry of Local Government and Works. Details of the grant are
expected to be finalized by the EU and GOJ by December 31, 1996. For the present, expected EU
financing is included in GOJ's counterpart contribution. Background information, main functions and
activities, employment composition, current financial arrangements, and prevailing constraints and
weaknesses of the first set of eleven agencies listed above are indicated in Annex 2.
35.    For each of the pilot agencies, the modernization strategy will consist of the following steps.
First, GOJ will select/confirm the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Agency and the core
management team of the entity. In most cases, the selection would be done on a competitive basis
considering both public sector and private sector candidates. However, in exceptional cases, where the
Head of an agency or a member of its core management has been recently appointed through a
competitive process, or where the performance of the incumbent is extremely strong, a fresh selection
process may be dispensed with.
36.    Once the top management team of the agency is in place, consultants with the requisite
organizational, management, legal and technical skills will be engaged. Working closely with the CEO
and the core management team they will prepare three main documents that will inform the
modernization process for the agency. These are:
a) Modernization Plan
b) Medium-Term Financing Plan
c) Framework Document
37.   The Modernization Plan will be based on a detailed review of organization, management,
business processes and resources of the agency. It will provide, inter alia, the following:
Identification of actions to be taken to implement the new management strategy based on
increased delegation of authority and strict accountability for achievement of specific
performance requirements.



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project:: SAR: 7/96                                          14
Recommendations for changes in agency-specific laws, regulations and norms, if required.
These will include recommendations for amendments in laws and regulations to enable the
agency to charge or revise fees for services provided to clients.
Design ot re-engineered business processes to enhance effectiveness and productivity.
Design of the new organizational structure to support the re-engineered business processes.
Recommendations for developing client service orientation.
Job descriptions and skill requirements at all levels of the new organizational structure.
Design of career paths.
Design of an effective performance appraisal system, including performance indicators for
each position.
Salary grades for each position to ensure ability to attract and retain the required skills.
Design of a performance-linked incentive system.
Rightsizing strategy, including design of severance package and support to employees
declared redundant.
Design otf internal control system to ensure transparency and accountability.
Identification of changes needed in Financial Management Information System (FMIS) and
Human Resource Management Information System (HRMIS), being developed separately,
to adapt them to the agency.
Requirements definition for other management information systems needed.
Requirements definition for information systems needed to automate agency operations.
Assessment of other physical resource needs for effective functioning of the agency,
including operational equipment, transportation, communication facilities, storage
facilities, office space and oftice refurbishing.
The Modernization Plan will provide a fully costed, time-bound implementation plan for the
agency.
38.    The Medium-Term Financing Plan will indicate the financing needs of the agency for a 5 year
period. In order to develop a motivating remuneration structure for the staff, it is proposed to follow
an, essentially, self-financing strategy. A resource pool receiving contributions from three sources
will be created in each agency. First, business process redesign, automation of routine processes and
matching of the agency's outputs with employee skills will be used to rightsize the staff complement.
In some of the agencies this process is expected to generate net savings over the current level of salary
and wages, after taking into account severance costs. These savings will contribute to the resource
pool. Second, some of the agencies are legally authorized to charge fees from their clients. For the
others, it may be possible to design user fees. It is proposed to allow the agencies to retain a part of
their fee revenues, based on their overall performance. Retained fees will be the second source of
funds for the resource pool. Where current fee levels do not reflect the actual cost of service provided,
these would be revised. Also buoyancy will be built into them so that they can keep pace with
inflation. At the same time, to prevent agencies from charging monopolistic fees, the fees will be
established or revised in consultation with the Ministry of Finance which will ensure that a fair and
uniform approach is adopted. Finally, efficiency gains reflected in savings made by the agencies in
their operational expenses, through improved productivity or thrift, will be allowed to be retained and
will add to the resource pool. At the end of each year, based on an objective performance evaluation
of each staff member, the CEO will award incentives which will supplement staff salaries. This
approach would closely align institutional objectives with individual interests and promote rightsizing,
productivity and cost-consciousness.



Jamaica Public Sector-Modern,zation Prolect:: .SIIR. 7/96                                15
39.    However, since the resource pool will be filled only over time, at the beginning of the
modernization process, GOJ will need to provide adequate salaries for the CEO and the core
management team so as to have a high quality management team leading the turn-around of each
agency. Also, even after all the funds in the resource pool are accounted for, in some agencies, there
may not be enough to raise the effective remuneration of employees to the requisite level. In such
cases GOJ will have to consider financing salary increases through the regular budget.
40.   Taking the above factors into account, the Medium-Term Financing Plan will indicate the
following:
Capital and revenue expenditures to be financed, including investments to improve the
agency's physical resources, salary enhancements for key and critical positions, severance
costs and performance-linked incentives to be paid to management and staff.
GOJ budgetary support to the agency.
Amount of own revenues (user fees etc.) and savings from efficiency gains to be retained
by the agency for its own use.
*  Resources to be provided by the Public Sector Modernization Project (PSMP).
*  Resources to be provided by the ODA and other donors, where applicable.
41.   The Framework Document will be based on the Modernization Plan and the Medium-Term
Financing Plan and would, inter alia:
Define the mission and objectives of the agency.
Establish the rights and obligations of the management and GOJ, respectively, with regard
to the functioning of the agency. These would include:
* Specific outputs to be delivered by the management.
* Resources that would be available to management to achieve the required outputs
(as detailed in the medium term financing plan) along with MOFP assurance
regarding predictability of cash flows.
* Extent and nature of managerial, operational, financial and personnel management
autonomy that would be granted to the management.
* Performance indicators and the methods of performance measurement and
evaluation to be used.
* Rewards and sanctions that would follow performance evaluation.
42.   The Framework Document will constitute the basic contract between the government and the
management of the entity. It will be duly signed by the Permanent Secretary of the relevant Ministry,
on behalf of GOJ, and the CEO of the executive agency.
43.   Disbursement Condition: Disbursements under the project for the preparation of the
Modernization Plan, Medium-Term Financing Plan and the Framework Document will be made subject
to the appointment of a CEO, with qualifications acceptable to the Bank. Disbursements for the
implementation of the Modernization Plan for a particular agency would be subject to (a) the
preparation of the Modernization Plan, Medium-Term Financing Plan and the Framework Document,
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) signing of the Framework Document by GOJ and the concerned CEO and
(c) a legal framework, satisfactory to the Bank, being in full force and effect to enable the agency to
carry out its Modernization Plan.



Jamaica Public Sector Alodernizarion Project. £4R: 7'96                                     16
44.    After the execution of the Framework Document, the implementation of the Modernization
Plan will begin. This will involve the following main activities:
Make administrative changes to grant increased autonomy and enhance accountability.
Make changes in FMIS, if needed, and implement it in agency along with other internal
controls.
Implement new organizational structure.
Refurbish offices.
Match skills of current staff with required skills.
Retrench redundant staff.
Recruit new staff with required skills.
Move staff to new organizational units and functions.
Establish customer service units.
Implement revised remuneration system, incentive system and career paths.
Implement new performance evaluation system.
Make changes in HRMIS, if needed, and implement it in agency.
Design, develop and implement other management information systems.
Design, develop and implement information systems to automate agency operations.
Prepare manuals of norms, procedures and regulations based on new structure,
management systems and business processes.
Train staff.
Implement re-engineered business processes.
Acquire operational equipment, transportation, communication facilities, storage facilities
etc.
Carry out civil works, where required.
* Monitor and evaluate developmental impact of modernization.
45.    To ensure that the investments being made in the targeted agencies produce tangible results,
the performance of these entities will be strictly monitored through regular annual reviews. Where it
exceeds agreed targets, suitable incentives and rewards will be granted to the management and the
staff. Where, on the other hand, performance is below expectations, appropriate sanctions, including
changes in top management, will be applied. In order to increase general awareness about the
expectations from these agencies and to ensure transparency of the evaluation process, the Framework
Document, performance targets and achievements of the agencies will be published. Preliminary
performance indicators, covering Service Quantity, Service Quality and Cost Effectiveness, for the first
set of eleven executive agencies have been developed and are indicated in Annex 3. These will be
further refined in the process of preparation of the Framework Document. Also, suitable benchmarks
will be established. Customer surveys will be relied upon, where appropriate, to measure outcomes
resulting from the activities of the targeted entities.
46.   In the six agencies for which the ODA or EU would have lead responsibility, some
modifications in approach may be made. However, the broad thrust of the activities will be similar.
Close coordination between GOJ, ODA, EU and the Bank will be maintained throughout.



Jamaica Public Sector Aoderni:ation Prolect:: SAR: 7196                                   17
(b) Ministries
47.   Three Ministries will be taken up for modernization in Stage 1. Two of these, the Ministry of
Local Government and Works (MLGW) and the Ministry of Environment and Housing (MEH), have
already been identified, the third will be identified during project implementation. The MLGW has
been formed recently by amalgamating the Ministry of Construction and the Ministry of Local
Government and is in need of signiticant restructuring to integrate its two components. Further, the
Ministry is responsible for managing huge capital expenditures and improvements in its management
would have a significant impact on overall GOJ spending. Also, central level reforms at the MLGW
will complement institutional reforms at the local government level that are proposed to be undertaken
under the Parish Infrastructure Project. The MEH is also high on the GOJ's priorities. Three out of
the eleven line entities targeted tor conversion to executive agencies viz. the Office of Titles; the
Surveys Department, and the Town Planning Department fall within the purview of this Ministry.
There would be considerable synergy in undertaking simultaneous reform at the central level in this
Ministry and at the line agency level in the three agencies affiliated to it. Background information,
main functions and activities, employment composition, current financial arrangements, and prevailing
constraints and weaknesses of the identified Ministries are indicated in Annex 2.
48.    The modernization plan for the Ministries would involve the strengthening of their central
divisions that are engaged in policy formulation, monitoring of policy implementation and corporate
functions. The project would aim to improve the access of the Ministries to high quality information on
which to base policy tormulation; assist in the development of sound sector policies, technical
standards, and operating norms and guidelines; develop effective monitoring and evaluation systems;
strengthen budgeting, planning, accounting, procurement, contracting, internal control and personnel
management functions; and provide training to staff in related areas. Since the focus of the project
would be on the central divisions of the Ministries, operational agencies affiliated to these Ministries,
other than those included in the list of executive agencies indicated above, will not be covered in Stage
1. These would be taken up in Stage 11.
49.    The process of modernization of Ministries would follow a course similar to that in the case of
executive agencies. A Modernization Plan; a Medium Term Financing Plan and a Framework
Document, on the same pattern as for executive agencies, would be prepared for each Ministry. The
Framework Document in the case of a Ministry will, however, be signed by the Minister, on behalf of
the government, and by the Permanent Secretary, as the CEO of the Ministry.
50.    Disbursement Condition: A disbursement condition similar to that for executive agencies
would also apply to each targeted Ministry. Disbursements under the project for the preparation of the
Modernization Plan, Medium-Term Financing Plan and the Framework Document will be made subject
to the appointment of a Permanent Secretary. Disbursements for the implementation of the
Modernization Plan for a particular Ministry would be subject to (a) the preparation of the
Modernization Plan, Medium-Term Financing Plan and the Framework Document, satisfactory to the
Bank; (b) signing of the Framework Document by GOJ and the concerned Permanent Secretary and (c)
a legal framework, satisfactory to the Bank, being in full force and effect to enable the Ministry to
carry out its Modernization Plan.
51.    As part of the review of each Ministry, its mission, role and functions will be examined and
suitable changes, if needed, will be recommended. However, in keeping with current best practice, it



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Proejecr:: SAR. 7/ 96                                     18
is not proposed to burden this project with policy conditionalities. Project assistance will address the
intrinsic organizational and management deficiencies of the Ministries, so as to equip them to perform
effectively in any policy environment. Nevertheless, the importance of sound sector policies cannot be
minimized. As such, dialogue to improve and strengthen the policy orientation of the selected
Ministries will continue on a parallel track.
52.    Crtical Success Factors: The granting of enhanced autonomy subject to strict accountability
for performance is a relatively new concept in Jamaica and marks a significant departure from
traditional public service management practices. Its success will depend on strong and continued
commitment, at both the political and the administrative levels. Also, especially in the early period,
the evolution of the executive agencies will have to be watched closely and suitable refinements in
strategy, legal and administrative framework and management practices will need to be made in a
timely manner. The Ministry of Finance will have a special role to play, because only if it allows real
financial autonomy to the executive agencies will the latter be able to perform at the expected level.
This would include ensuring that, barring extraordinary circumstances, the cash flows agreed to under
the Medium-Term Financing Plan of each agency are made available to them. Also the Ministry will
have to increase its oversight over expenditures to ensure that the autonomy is not misused. This
underlines the importance of strengthening internal auditing and extending the FMIS to the selected
agencies on priority. The support of the Efficiency and Reform Directorate (ERD) and the OSC will
also be crucial in adjusting personnel management practices in the agencies. Finally, it will be
important to secure the full involvement and commitment of the employees of the pilot entities and the
support of public service unions.
53.    The commitment of the present government to the objective of creating responsive and efficient
public entities is very high. The initiative is supported at the highest level of government. A copy of
the Cabinet Secretary's letter dated March 5, 1996 regarding the granting of autonomy to the targeted
agencies is placed in Annex 8. An extensive public relations campaign has been conducted as part of
project preparation to build public support for the initiative. So far, the response of the labor unions
and the opposition parties has been, generally, positive. It is expected that once the benefits of the
approach are demonstrated by some early successes, political support would be strengthened further.
At the top administrative level also, commitment is quite strong. Nevertheless, as the project aims to
significantly alter the way business has been conducted in the government in the past, some resistance
to change can be anticipated. To some extent, this will decrease as the reform efforts become more
concrete and comprehensible. Also, a continuing communication campaign would be carried out to
allay unjustitied fears and build ownership. Assistance to be provided by the project to strengthen
internal and external auditing and to streamline procurement and contracting practices (discussed
below) should help increase the Ministry of Finance's level of comfort with enhanced autonomy at the
entity level. The response of the ERD and OSC to the proposed changes has been very positive and
their support is expected to continue.
(B)    Privatization
54.    In order for the public sector to improve its performance, it is essential for it to withdraw from
those commercial and productive activities in which it has no comparative advantage. By doing so, it
would be able to focus on its core competencies and avoid the fiscal drain caused by inefficiently run,
loss-making public enterprises. Also, the consequential reduction in the size of the public service
would enable the government to begin paying motivating wages to the remaining employees. This



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Proqecv: SAR: 7/96                                    19
would facilitate the induction of high quality individuals into the public service and contribute towards
improving the efficiency and effectiveness of public institutions. Privatization of public entities and
contracting out of services of a commercial nature are the principal tools through which an orderly
reduction in the size and scope of the public sector is proposed to be achieved. It is also a means to
encourage private investments in the productive sectors and infrastructure that are critical to the
development of the country, but cannot be afforded by the government.
55.    GOJ is of the view that the National Investment Bank of Jamaica (NIBJ), the main
implementing and coordinating agency for the privatization program, is adequately geared to handle the
privatization of the entities that remain out of the list of 1991 and those that were approved for
divestiture by the Cabinet in 1995. However, assistance under the Project is required in the three
areas mentioned below:
* Privatization of the Water and Sewerage Sector;
* Privatization or contracting out of an additional set of facilities and services;
* Institutional strengthening of NIBJ.
(i) Privatization of Water and Sewerage Sector
56.    The project will assist GOJ in developing and implementing an appropriate privatization
strategy for the water and sewerage sector that would ensure economic allocation of water between
competing uses, while improving the quality of service provided to the public.
57.   Institutonal Arrangements: Although the control of the water and sewerage sector in Jamaica
is widely dispersed between several institutions, the production, treatment and supply of water are
dominated by the National Water Commission (NWC) and the National Irrigation Commission (NIC),
who have responsibility for production and distribution of domestic and irrigation water, respectively.
These agencies are also the major competitors for water in the island. Several other GOJ agencies
such as the Ministry of Local Government and Works, the Urban Development Corporation (UDC)
and a number of limited liability companies are also involved in water supply or sewerage projects in
various locations throughout the country. The Underground Water Authority (UWA), established
under the Underground Water Authority Control Act, 1959, has responsibility for data collection
relating to ground and surface water resources. UWA also develops island-wide master plans for
water resources utilization and both the NWC and NIC need to apply to it for permits for the quantity
of water they plan to extract from the ground. The regulatory role of the UWA has recently been
strengthened by the Water Resources Act of 1995 that will transform the UWA into the Water
Resources Authority (WRA). The WRA will manage all the nation's water resources by evaluating
and controlling the allocation of both ground water as well as surface water. It will also rationalize
planning and development activities in the water sector within the framework of the existing Water
Resources Development Master Plan developed with the assistance of the UNDP.
58.   The NWC was established as a statutory body in 1980 by combining the National Water
Authority and the Kingston and St. Andrew Water Commission. NWC is the sole water and sewerage
authority, providing water services to about 75% of the population and operating about 30% of the
sewerage treatment capacity in the island. Areas not directly served by NWC are served by smaller
parish systems, or in some cases by independent entities. The total production capacity of NWC is
700,000 cubic meters per day. Of this production, unaccounted for water amounts to over 50%. This



Jamaica Public SectorModernization Project:: SAR: 7/96                                      20
includes losses due to leaking mains, unrecorded and unbilled consumption as a result of defective
meters and unregistered consumption. The NWC has a poor operating record and has been able to
continue operations only as a result of large capital injections by the government. The Jamaica Water
Supply and Sewerage TA Loan (1984-94) provided technical assistance to NWC management, besides
emergency supplies and equipment. Although water accounts doubled, sustainable improvements in
management were not achieved. In mid-1995, as an interim measure, GOJ made major managerial and
financial changes that included (i) a new Board and senior management; (ii) recruitment of five senior
technical experts with EU assistance and (iii) transfer of the main elements of debt service to the
government.
59.    The NIC was established in 1987 with the mandate to operate and maintain the public
irrigation system in the island. Its systems are located in areas that have insufficient rainfall and are
completely independent from the NWC's potable water systems. Generally, the water supplied by the
NIC is untreated.
60.    The rates for water and sewerage are currently set by the Ministry of Public Utilities and
Transport (MPUT). However, all regulatory authority in this respect will be transferred to the Office
of Utility Regulation (OUR), once this office is fully established.
61.    Supply and Demand: Present domestic and industrial water usage in Jamaica is about 223
million cubic meters per year and irrigation usage is about 682 million cubic meters per year. The
projected demand in the year 2015 for domestic water is about 346 million cubic meters per year and
for irrigation about 1338 million cubic meters per year. In order to meet the projected demand, an
estimated investment of about US$ I billion will be required in the water and sewerage sector. Since
the public sector would not have the requisite resources, GOJ plans to encourage private participation
in this sector.
62.    Project Assistance: In the past, numerous studies have been carried out to identify different
privatization options for the NWC. These have, however, been carried out as isolated efforts and have
focused only on the NWC's need to meet the demand for potable water. As Phase I of the water sector
privatization, a brief consultancy to review and expand on the previous studies, with a view to develop
a comprehensive strategy that takes into account water requirements for domestic use and irrigation has
already been initiated and will be financed retroactively by the Project. It will examine the availability
of water for all areas of the island, particularly the Kingston Metropolitan Area (KMA), and make
recommendations to resolve any short to medium-term conflicts in the use of water. It will also
examine the current institutional arrangements and recommend the broad structure and ownership of
the various entities comprising the sector. The study will review the experience of other countries that
have involved the private sector in the production and delivery of potable water, irrigation water and
provision of sewerage services. It will consider the extent of vertical and horizontal integration, the
extent and nature of existing and potential competition in the sector and types of privatization
arrangements, such as management contract, affermage/service contract, lease, concessions or
privatization of assets, that have been adopted in other countries. The study will identify the
privatization options available to GOJ and their policy implications. A draft report of the study is
being currently reviewed by GOJ. This study will be followed by a more detailed study, also to be
financed by the project, that will address the institutional, regulatory, legal and financial implications
of the recommended policy. Based on the results of these studies, GOJ is expected to take a decision,
by March 31, 1997, on the particular course to be adopted. Thereafter, the project will assist it in



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project:: SAR: 7/96                                     21
implementing the next phase of the privatization process by financing the engagement of the required
financial, regulatory, legal, accounting and technical experts.
63.    The support provided by the PSMP to the privatization of the water and sewerage sector will
be complemented by the proposed Jamaica Water Supply and Sewerage Privatization Preparation
Project which aims to: (i) rehabilitate the water production and waste water facilities of the NWC in
the Kingston Metropolitan Area; (ii) install valves, zone meters and consumer meters; (iii) undertake
leak repairs; and (iv) conduct consumer surveys. These inputs are considered necessary to make the
sector attractive for private investment or management.
(ii) Privatization/Contracting Out of Facilities and Services
64.    GOJ has prepared an indicative list (Annex 4) of entities and services for privatization or
contracting out. These include National Stadium Complex, Hope Garden and Zoo, Maxfield Park
Children's Home, Minard Great House, Food Stamp Program, Statutory Legal Aid System, Prison
Health Services, Food Storage Infestation, etc.. In addition, the comprehensive review of the
remaining public entities proposed to be carried out as part of the preparation of Stage II of the public
sector modernization process, is expected to identify other entities that would be suitable candidates for
privatization or contracting out. The project will assist GOJ in the privatization or contracting out of
the selected entities. Not later than December 31 of each year of project implementation, starting in
1996, the entities/services to be privatized in the succeeding fiscal year will be agreed to by GOJ and
the Bank. The entities to be taken up for privatization in FY 1996-97 would, however, be included in
the Annual Action Plan for this year to be prepared as a condition of Loan Effectiveness. On the
whole, this sub-component would assist in the privatization of 30 to 35 entities or services.
(iii) Institutional strengthening of NIBJ
65.   In order to boost the ongoing privatization program as well as ensure the efficient execution of
privatizations proposed under this project, the institutional capacity of NIBJ will be strengthened. The
project will finance the hiring of a full-time qualified resident advisor, as required by and agreed with
NIBJ. The advisor would assist NIBJ management and staff in putting together and implementing
privatization transactions. Further, successful privatization will require NIBJ to conduct an effective
communication campaign that explains the costs of maintaining the status quo as well as the benefits of
privatization to various stake-holders, so as to build broad support for the program and allay
unwarranted fears. For this purpose, assistance will be provided to strengthen the public relations and
marketing capabilities of NIBJ. Finally, training to NIBJ staff would be provided in private sector
participation in infrastructure projects, economic regulation, privatization techniques, project and
capital financing, and project appraisal and management.
(C) Government Procurement, Contracting, Internal Control and Auditing
(i) Procurement and Contracting
66.    GOJ has recently decided to launch a broad-based reform in order to address the deficiencies in the
procurement and contracting processes discussed earlier. The project will support this initiative so as to
enhance value for money, transparency and accountability. It is proposed to provide project assistance at
three levels:



Jamaica Public Sector Modernizarion Project:: SAR: 7/96                                         22
67.    First, a Procurement Policy Implementation Unit will be established within the Inspectorate
Division of the Ministry of Finance. This unit will have responsibility for developing and updating
procurement standards and procedures. It will assist ministeries and departments in establishing the
procurement functions of Procurement/Contracting Units and Procurement Committees; provide guidance
in procurement matters; and monitor procurement operations of the individual entities. The unit will update
the procurement policy manual incorporating modern practices in this field. Further, it will act as a central
resource for advice on the procurement process, market conditions, stores management, and oversees
procurements. The project will finance the hiring of a long-term Procurement Adviser for three years as
well as short-term consultancies in specialized areas. In addition, it will finance training for the staff of the
unit, computer equipment, hooks and literature.
68.    Second, assistance will be provided to strengthen the office of the Contractor General (CG).
Recently, in order to provide a central authority for the award of contracts that would enhance general
confidence in the process, the government has proposed the amendment of the Contractor General's Act to
create an independent National Contracts Commission (NCC), chaired by the CG and assisted by a small
Secretariat comprised of qualified professionals. Proposals concerning the role of the NCC and the CG are
being reviewed by the Parliamentary Committe on Infrastructure and are expected to be discussed in
Parliament at a early date. In line with the final decisions taken in this regard, the project will assist in
strengthening the Office of the Contractor General, through establishment of the Secretariat. For this
purpose it will finance the required consulting services, training and equipment.
69.    Third, the Procurement/Contracting Units and Procurement Conunittees in different Ministries will
be strengthened through consulting services, training and equipment so that they can effectively implement
the applicable procurement and contracting guidelines. Training activities will focus on
procurement/contracting policies, regulations and procedures of GOJ and international financial institutions;
preparation of bidding documents and specifications, bid evaluation, contract negotiation, contract
administration, quality control and materials management.
(ii) Internal Control
70.    In order to strengthen internal controls throughout government (these are crucial for the
efficient delegation of financial authority in the context of the creation of executive agencies, as well)
GOJ proposes to set up an Internal Audit Directorate (IAD) within the Financial Management Division
of the Ministry of Finance. The IAD will establish uniform operating standards and systems for
conducting internal audits; set ethical norms; coordinate the training and professional development of
internal auditors; and conduct internal control reviews under the Financial Administration and Audit
Act. A new job classification for auditors is expected to be developed soon to emphasize the group as
a profession, establish high qualification criteria and improve their remuneration package. A new
curriculum for training public sector auditors is also proposed to be developed by MIND. The project
will support the establishment of the IAD through consulting services, training, equipment, books and
auditing literature.
(iii) External Auditing
71.    In order to strengthen the institutional capacity of the Auditor General in exercising effective
ex-post control, the project will provide consultants, training and equipment to enable the office to
enhance its auditing capabilities, especially in computer-aided auditing of automated accounts and in



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Pro;ect.: 94R: 7,96                                  23
exercising effective external control over procurement and contracting decisions. The latter function
has gained added importance in view of GOJ's proposal to give semi-executive functions to the
Contractor General.
(D)   FMIS and the HRMIS
72.   Two important activities covered under the IBRD financed Financial Program Management
Improvement Project (FPMIP), which became effective on 09/17/91, are the development and phased
implementation of the Financial Management Information System (FMIS) and the Human Resource
Management Information System (HRMIS). The FMIS is intended to computerize Budget
Formulation, Budget Execution, Accounting and Financial Reporting. Its objective is to enhance
accountability, transparency and efficiency in public financial management at the central level. The
HRMIS aims to fulfill information and automation needs in human resource management, especially in
areas of personnel administration, manpower planning, succession planning, employee development
and allocation of human resources.
73.    A preliminary review of the two systems was conducted during project preparation. In Phase
I of the FMIS, the Expenditure Authorization, Accounting and Check Printing modules have been
developed. These have been commissioned in nine of the twelve Ministries, covering 11 sites. Phase
II of the system, now under development, would cover Commitment Planning and Control,
Consolidation of Central Accounts and Management of Externally Funded Projects. Phase III of the
system would create an Executive Information System to allow reports in a flexible format to be
generated for senior management. Certain aspects of the system that require further strengthening
were identified during the review. These would be addressed during project implementation. In
addition, modules for Budget Formulation and Cash Management need to be developed and the
linkages of the FMIS with the tax administration, debt management and central bank computer systems
need to be established. A prototype of the HRMIS has been developed and installed at 16 sites. Core
personnel data regarding 36,000 employees has been entered. Additional educational and historical
data is yet to be entered. The next step would be to automate business functions related to personnel
management. A payroll module is proposed to be developed or procured. This will link the financial
data of the FMIS with personnel data of the HRMIS.
74.    GOJ is keen to implement these systems throughout the central government. However, since
the inception of the FPMIP the scope of the systems has been expanded considerably. Originally, the
FMIS was expected to be installed in 13 sites with 8-12 users per site. It is now proposed to be
installed at 42 sites with an average of 20 users per site. The HRMIS would be installed at 60-80
sites. Although, to some extent it would use the hardware used for the FMIS, separate servers and
PCs for the HRMIS would be needed for 5-10 additional workstations at each site for staff who deal
exclusively with personnel management. The FPMIP had provided for a total of US$ 6.235 million
for the development and implementation of both the FMIS and HRMIS. After allocation of unallocated
costs and some adjustment to other component costs the amount for computerization was raised to US$
7.0 million. But even this amount would be inadequate for the full implementation of the two systems.
Accordingly, it is proposed to provide additional funding of US$ 7.3 million, under the present
project, for further development and extension of the systems. Retroactive financing of US$ 600,000
would be provided to enable the purchase of urgently needed computer hardware.



Janaica Public Sector AModernizaunon Prolecr: . R: 7. 96                                    24
(E)    Communication Campaign
75.    Given the far-reaching impact of the project, an effective communication campaign would be
imperative to keep all stake-holders and the public informed of the objectives, activities and
accomplishments of the project. This would help in building and widening support for public sector
modernization. Accordingly, the project would support an extensive information campaign that would
be carried out throughout the duration of the project.
Development of Stage 11 of Public Sector Modemnization
76.    To prepare Stage 11 of the public sector modernization process, consultants will be engaged to
enable GOJ to systematically review all public entities, other than those covered in Stage 1, and decide
on entities that need to be closed down, privatized, converted into executive agencies or strengthened
in their present form. Also additional systemic reforms required will be identified. Based on this
analysis, and the experience of Stage 1, suitable strategies will be developed to extend the
modernization process to other Ministries and agencies. A detailed action plan to put these strategies
into effect will he drawn up. Preliminary studies of some of the Ministries and departments have
already been initiated.
Proiect Components:
77.    The project will consist of five components. (i) The Modernization of Public Sector Entities
component [US$ 32.5 million or 57.0% of total project cost of US$ 57.0 million] will assist in (a)
converting thirteen operational entities, mentioned in para 33, into 'Executive Agencies', above; and (b)
modernizing the central divisions, dealing with policy formulation; establishment of technical
standards; monitoring; coordination; and corporate management, of three Ministries, indicated in para
47, above. These entities will be granted greater autonomy in return for strict accountability for pre-
determined performance targets. They will also be provided with resources to modernize their
operations. (ii) The Privatization component [US$ 7.0 million or 12.2% of total project cost] will
finance engagement of consultants for (a) determination of different options available for private sector
participation in the water and sewerage sector and assisting GOJ in the implementation of the selected
option; (b) assisting in the privatization/contracting out of 30-35 other facilities and services; and (c)
institutional strengthening of the National Investment Bank of Jamaica (NIBJ), the lead agency for
privatization. (iii) The Government Procurement, Contracting, Internal Control and Auditing
component [US$ 2.0 million or 3.5% of total project cost] will provide assistance to the Procurement
Policy Implementation Unit, MOFP; Office of the Contractor General; Procurement/Contracting Units
and Committees in different Ministries; the Internal Audit Directorate, MOFP; and the Office of the
Auditor General. (iv) The Management Information Systems component [US$ 7.3 million or 12.8%
of total project cost] will complement the Financial and Program Management Improvement Project by
providing additional funding for software development, acquisition of hardware and training for the
Financial Management Information System (FMIS) and Human Resource Management Information
System (HRMIS). (v) Project Implementation, Communication Campaign and Development of
Stage II component [US$ 3.0 million or 5.3% of total project cost] will provide consultant services,
goods and training for implementation of the project, carrying out of an effective communication
campaign to facilitate project execution; and development of Stage 11 of the public sector modernization
process. Physical and price contingencies each amount to US$ 2.6 million or 4.6% of total project
cost.



Jamaica Public Sector Modernizatron Project:: SAR: 7/96                                           25
Project SustainabilitW:
78.    The modernization of operational agencies and core divisions of Ministries will be based on an
integrated approach that will seek to address inter-related organizational deficiencies in a
comprehensive manner. It is expected that the project would bring about lasting changes in the way
these entities do business. In the long-run, by modernizing the management practices and working
environments of the targeted entities, the project will help create a motivated group of public servants
who will have a vested interest in preserving and building on the improvements made through the
project. Also, the enhancement in quality of public service will create an external demand for
maintaining and increasing efficiency levels, besides consolidating political support for the reforms.
Privatization will help rid the public sector of activities that it cannot perform efficiently. It will
reduce the fiscal drain caused by inefficient enterprises and enable government to support continuing
reforms in the smaller public sector. The strengthening of procurement, contracting, internal control
and auditing will bring about long-term improvements in transparency and accountability. The
extension of the FMIS and HRMIS will lead to durable improvements in financial and personnel
management by providing up-to-date information in these areas to public sector managers. The phased
approach to public sector modernization being proposed by the project will keep change within the
absorptive limits of the public sector, thus, facilitating its acceptance and internalization. Financially,
the project will not impose a major recurrent burden on GOJ as the required improvements in the
compensation level of skilled positions in the targeted entities would be mainly financed by the
agencies themselves.
Lessons From Previous Bank Experience:
79.    Bank experience in related projects indicates that: (a) complex institution building projects
require government commitment at the highest level; (b) local ownership of reforms is imperative for
their success; (c) the right people, possessing the right skills and facing the right incentives, are crucial
to sustainability of institutional improvements; (e) civil service reform is a pre-requisite for
institutional development in the public sector6 (f) information technology can play a significant part in
enhancing organizational performance; (g) detailed project preparation is critical to effective
implementation; and (h) institutional change is facilitated by early successes. While designing the
project these lessons have been kept in mind. The proposed project closely reflects the priorities of
GOJ and enjoys the support of the Office of the Prime Minister. The development of the project
concept has been done in a highly participatory manner and inputs from a wide cross-section of
stakeholders have been sought and incorporated into the project concept and design. Further,
provision is being made for a continuing communication campaign during project implementation to
keep all interested constituencies adequately informed and reduce the anxiety that inevitably
accompanies major transitions. The project places due emphasis on improving the quality of human
resources in the civil service. Strategies for performance-linked improvements in compensation;
training and employee empowerment have been built into the project. Adequate provision has been
made for upgrading information technology in each of the targeted entities. Detailed implementation
plans and performance indicators have been developed to facilitate project implementation. Finally,
the project design aims at posting early successes. Some of the selected agencies are quite small in
organizational terms. Significant improvements in their performance would be sought in the initial
6 The Caribbean Region: A Review on World Bank Assistance: Operations Evaluation Departirnent, the World Bank, November 1994.



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project:: SAR: 7/96                                  26
stages of project implementation so that they can be used as models to stimulate further change and
build credibility for the reform process.
PROJECT CONTEXT
Rafonale For Bank Involvement
80.   A robust public sector is essential for the success and sustainability of Jamaica's economic
reform program, which is being supported by a number of Bank operations. Consequently, public
sector reform and institutional strengthening are key objectives of the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on March 4, 1993. GOJ's Medium-Term Policy Framework
(MTPF) also emphasizes the need for greater administrative efficiency, improved public services and a
new role for the public sector as a facilitator of private sector-led growth. The Bank is already
involved in public sector reform projects in Jamaica. The proposed project is consistent with the Bank
Group Country Assistance Strategy. It would help take the reform process to the next stage, while
ensuring that two ongoing initiatives, viz. privatization and introduction of computerized financial and
personnel management systems, are carried to their logical conclusion. The Bank's vast and varied
experience in institutional development in the public sector would benefit the borrower in ensuring that
the proposed organizational changes are properly designed and effectively implemented.
ENVIRONMENT
81.   This project has been classified as category 'B" in recognition of potential environmental
effects of privatization activities. For the facilities and services already identified, a preliminary
environmental evaluation has been carried out. One facility, Food Storage Infestation (FSI), located at
Kingston and Montego Bay airports and used for quarantine of food for export, has been identified as
being possibly associated with some environmental issues. An environmental audit of the FSI will be
conducted prior to its privatization and suitable remedial actions will be taken to mitigate adverse
environmental impacts. Environmental Audit Guidelines have been developed and included in the
Operational Manual of the project. These will be followed during project implementation for
additional entities selected for privatization, whose activities, in the opinion of the Bank, may have a
negative environmental impact.
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
82.    A PHRD Grant of Yen 61.5 million is being used for project preparation. The total project
cost of US$ 57.0 million includes an IBRD loan of US$ 28.4 million, repayable over seventeen years,
including a five year grace period, at the Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR based US Dollar
single currency loans. Parallel grant financing of UK Pounds 2.0 million (about US $3.0 million) will
be provided by the UK ODA. The European Union (EU) is also expected to provide parallel grant
financing of about US$ 3.0 million. This amount is included in GOJ's counterpart contribution of US$
25.6 million, pending finalization of the details of the EU project. Retroactive financing of US$ 2.0
million will be provided to meet expenditures incurred between January 1, 1996 and date of Loan
signing, mainly to purchase hardware for the FMIS and HRMIS and to finance studies related to the
water and sewerage sector. Table 2 indicates the Estimated Project Costs, Table 3 the Financing Plan
and Table 4 the Financing Plan by Category of Expenditure. Annex 5 indicates the detailed costs for
each project component.



Jamaica Publjc Sector Modernizaton Proqect.: SAR: 7/96                                                                        27
Table 2:   Estimated Project Cost (USS Thousands)
gD : - -- - ' ......... .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                        .   Fr . . . . .   . . . . . . ......Tt  £:a
C.an ewtn                                                               IM)a    FortilgD            Total          %  of Total
. -,---,,, ~~~~~~~.                                  . . . . .   . : . - - :. .   :::-.. . _.Erjs Xs
Modernization of Public Sector Entities
(a) Executive Agencies
1. Planning Institute of Jamaica                                           435           1105         1540                 2.7%
2. Jamaica Customs Department                                              2949          4351         7300                12.8%
3. Office of Tltles                                                        1290          2040         3330                 5.8%
4. Town Planning Department                                                 160           690          850                  1.5%
5. Surveys Department                                                       192          1008         1200                 2.1%
6. Jamaica Information Service                                              543           707         1250                 2.2%
7. JAMPRESS                                                                 182           768          950                 1.7%
8. Registrar General's Depanrment                                           407          1208         1615                 2.8%
9. Rtgistrar of Companies                                                   497           728         1225                 2.1%
10. Administrator General                                                   128           412          540                 0.9%
11. Management Institute for National Development                         3670            715         4385                 7.77%
12. JAMPRO and Construction Division of MLGW                                700          1300         2000                 3.5%
(b) Ministries
1. Ministry of Local Government and Works                                   657          2178         2835                 5.0%
2  Ministry of Environment and Housing                                     1115          1395         2510                 4.4%
3. One Additional Ministry To be Identified                                 350           650         1000                 1.8%
Subtotal                                                                13275          19255        32530                57.0%
Privatization
(a) Privatization of the Water and Sewerage Sector                         1000          4000         5000                 8.8%
(b) Privatization/Contracting Out of Facilities/Services                    475           625         1100                  1.9%
(c) Institutional Strengthening of NIBJ                                     300           600          900                 1.5%
Subtotal                                                                  1775          5225         7000                12.2%
Procurement, Contracting Internal Control & Auditing
(a) Procurement Policy Implementation Unit, MOFP                            100           425          525                 0.9%
(b) Office of the Contractor General                                        100           300          400                 0.6%
(c) Procurement/Contracting Units in Ministries                             150           200          350                 0.6%
(d) Internal Audit Directorate, MOFP                                         50           275          325                 0.7%
(e) Office of the Auditor General                                           100           300          400                 0.7%
Subtotal                                                                   500          1500         2000                 3.5%
Mfanae-ement Information Systems
(a) FMIS                                                                   1150          3250         4400                 7.7%
(b) HRM IS                                                                  250          2650         2900                 5.1 %
Subtotal                                                                  1400          5900         7300                12.8%
Prolect Implementation. Communication Campaign
and Develooment of Stage 11
(a) Project Implementation and Communication                               2050           450         2500                 4.4%
Campaign
(b) Development of Stage 11 of PS Modernization                             400           100          500                 0.9%
Subtotal                                                                 2450            550         3000                 5.3%
Base Cost                                                               19400          32430        51830                90.8%
Physical Contingencies @5%                                                  970          1620         2590                 4.6%
Price Contingency @ 2.3% per annum                                          975          1605         2580                 4.6%
Total Project Cost                                                      21345          35655        57000              100.0%



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project:: SAR: 7/96                                                                   28
Table 3: Financing Plan (uss Thousands)
...  ............  L o c a l      F o r e i g n                      T o t al~~~~.  .... ..   .    .
Government                                         19,495                           6,105                         25,600
IBRD                                                 1,850                        26,550                          28,400
ODA Parallel
Financing                                                 0                         3,000                          3,000
Total                                              21,345                         35,655                          57,000
Table 4: Financing Plan by Category of Expenditure (uss Thousands)
=3____                           Total   IBID    GO  0:t O-   %U%RJ_____
Consultants                      26200            14000              9200            3000   53,43%                35.11%
Local                               9825              1850             7975               0         18.82%           81.18%
Foreign                            16375             12150             1225            3000         74.20%            7.48%
Goods                            18430            12100              6330                 0   65.65%              34.35%
Local                               1200                 0             1200               0          0.00%          100.00%
Foreign                            17230             12100             5130               0         70.22%           29.78%
Training                          4090             2050             2040                  0   50.12%              49.88%
Local                               2040                 0             2040               0          0.00%          100.00%
Foreign                             2050              2050                0               0           100%            0.00%
Information
Campaign                            250              250                 0                0    100%                    0%
Local                                250               250                0               0           100%               0%
Civil Works                       8030                  0            8030                 0    0.00%    100.00%
Local                               8030                 0             8030               0          0.00%          100.00%
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.       Institutional Arrangements
83.      The Cabinet Secretary, Office of the Prime Minister, will be the executing agency for this
project. The Inter-Ministerial Committee for Administrative Reform  (IMCAR)8 chaired by the Prime
Includes parallel financing of approximately USS 3.0 million expected from the European Union.
8lTe member of the IMCAR are: the Prime Minister (Chairman), Minister of Finance, Minister of State - Ministry of Finance, Minister of
Health, Minister Without Portfolio (Officc of the Prime Minister); Cabinst Secretary, Financial Secretary, Pennanent Secretary- OPM,
Director General, ERD and Project Director, PSMP.



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project:: SAR: 7/96                                       29
Minister, will provide high level support and policy direction. A Project Management Committee9,
chaired by the Cabinet Secretary, will oversee project implementation at the operational level. The
Management Committee will monitor the progress of various components of the project on a regular
basis and take appropriate actions to ensure that the objectives of the project are met. A Project
Coordination Unit (PCU), reporting to the Cabinet Secretary, has been established. The PCU has
actively participated in the preparation of the project. It will be responsible for the coordination of
different components of the project and for overall project management.
84.    The PCU is headed by a Project Director, who is an ex-officio member of the IMCAR
Working Group. The Project Director will have overall responsibility for the efficient implementation
of the project. The Senior Project Officer, already working in the PCU, will have responsibility for
coordinating the privatization component and providing assistance to the NIBJ, where required. He
will also manage all procurement activities under the project, besides providing project management
support to the Project Director. An International Coordinator, with experience in management of
change in public entities, will be appointed to guide the process of modernization of executive agencies
and Ministries. The agencies and Ministries will be divided into four groups. An Agency Coordinator
will be engaged for each group to facilitate the implementation process on a day to day basis. An
Information Technology Coordinator will be hired to establish uniform IT standards for the
computerization of various entities covered by the project and to assist in engagement of consultants
and procurement of computer hardware and software. A Coordinator will be appointed to facilitate the
implementation of the Government Procurement, Contracting, Internal Control and Auditing
component. For carrying out the proposed communication campaign, a Communication Specialist has
been appointed. A Finance and Accounting Manager will be appointed to look after project accounts.
In addition, two Secretaries and one Administrative Officer will be recruited for the PCU. The staff of
the PCU will be recruited on contract. Extensions of contracts of individual staff members will be
considered in light of their performance and the needs of the project, subject to the Bank's no-
objection. No extensions will be allowed beyond the completion of the project. An Operational
Manual containing guidelines on various facets of project management has been developed.
Recruitment of key PCU staff and adoption of the Operational Manual are conditions of Loan
Effectiveness.
85.    Project implementation will require extensive inter-institutional coordination. The
Modernization of Public Sector Entities component will be executed in coordination with the
management of each targeted entity and the respective Ministry. The Privatization component will be
implemented through the NIBJ, which would work closely with the PCU and the Cabinet Secretariat.
Signing of a Cooperation Agreement between GOJ and the NIBJ for the execution of the Privatization
Component is a condition of Loan Effectiveness. Under the Government Procurement, Contracting,
Internal Control and Auditing component, the setting up of the Procurement Policy Implementation
Unit and the Internal Audit Directorate will be coordinated with the Ministry of Finance; the
establishment and strengthening of Procurement Committees and Procurement/Contracting Units will
be coordinated with each Ministry; the creation and strengthening of the National Contracts
Commission and the Secretariat in the Office of the Contractor General (OCG) will be coordinated
with the OCG; and the strengthening of external auditing will be coordinated with the Office of the
Auditor General. The FMIS/HRMIS component will be executed through the Government
The Project Management Committee will consist of the Cabinet Secretary, Financial Secretary/Representative MOFP, Director General,
ERD, Executive Director, GARP, Finance and computerization specialists from the FPMIP, Project Director, Senior Project Officer, and
Finance and Accounting Manager. PSMP, and a representative of the private sector.



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project:: SAR: 7/96                                   30
Administrative Reform Program. The Development of Stage n1 of Public Sector Modernization and
Communication Campaign will be the responsibility of the Project Coordination Unit.
B.    Project Implementation
86.   Given the wide scope of the project and the large number of entities involved, it is proposed to
adopt a phased implementation strategy. As would be evident from Annex 6, Project Implementation
Schedule, the creation of executive agencies and modernization of Ministries will be staggered so as to
keep the implementation burden on the PCU within reasonable limits. This will also enable the
experience gained with each batch of entities to be used to refine the strategy for succeeding batches.
The privatization of facilities and services will also be similarly phased.
87.   The PCU shall prepare and furnish to the Bank for its approval, an Annual Action Plan (AAP)
not later than December 31 of each fiscal year, starting in 1996. The submission of the AAP for fiscal
year 1996-97 will, however, be a condition of Loan Effectiveness. The AAP shall indicate, inter alia,
activities to be undertaken; the budget, sources of financing, start and end dates and implementation
responsibility for each activity; and plans for Procurement, Hiring of Consultants, Training and the
Information Campaign. It will also identify the entities or services to be taken up for privatization or
contracting out during the year. The AAP will form the basis of monitoring the progress of the
project. In order to ensure that project implementation is not adversely affected by the lack of
counterpart funds, GOJ will, by April 30 of each year, provide satisfactory evidence to the Bank
regarding the availability of such funds. Furnishing of the said evidence for FY 1996-97 will be a
condition of Loan Effectiveness. The PCU shall also submit semi-annual progress reports to the Bank
no later than April 30 and October 31 of each year, starting from 1997.
88.   At least two supervision missions will be organized by the Bank each year at which
implementation will be jointly reviewed with GOJ and actions to deal with problems and bottlenecks
encountered will be agreed. One of the supervision missions will be used to carry out an Annual
Review of the project before 30th June of each year. A mid-term review of the project will be carried
out as part of the 1999 Annual Review. To the extent possible the supervision missions will be
coordinated with similar missions of other donors participating in the project. In any event, close
coordination with them will be maintained to ensure consistency of approach. Progress made in
project implementation will be monitored through Key Project Indicators (Annex 1). Suitable remedies
have been included in the Loan Agreement to deal with the failure of the targeted agencies and
Ministries, on the one hand, and GOJ, on the other, to properly implement Framework Documents
mentioned above. Also, remedies have been provided in case of non-availability, suspension or
cancellation of parallel grant financing from the ODA and the EU.
89.    GOJ shall prepare an Operational Plan for the future operation of the Project, not later than six
months after the closing date of the Project. This plan will be jointly reviewed by the Bank and GOJ
with a view to ensure the sustainability of the reforms introduced by the Project.
C      Procurement
90.    Goods: Procurement of goods under the proposed project will be carried out in accordance
with "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project:: SAR: 7/96                                   31
January 1995 as revised in January 1996. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, modified as
appropriate, will be used for all ICB and LIB procurement.
91.    Goods, such as computer systems, including hardware, software and peripherals; instruments
required for the operations of various entities; teaching aids; air-conditioners; and other office
equipment estimated to cost US$ 10.6 million would be acquired through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB), in packages valued at not less than US$ 150,000 each. Some of aforesaid goods valued
at US$ 50,000 or more, but less than US$ 150,000 per contract, and not exceeding US$ 1.0 million in
the aggregate, would be procured through Limited International Bidding (LIB). Contracts for the
supply of the goods will include installation, maintenance and technical assistance for at least one year
after the first year of warranty provided by the manufacturer. Goods that cannot be grouped in bid
packages of US$ 50,000 or more, but can be grouped in packages of US$ 25,000 and above, would be
procured through international shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank, for an aggregate amount
not to exceed US$ 400,000. Goods, costing less than US$ 25,000 per contract, will be procured
through national shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank, for an aggregate amount not exceeding
US$ 100,000.
92.    All contracts for procurement of goods to be awarded through ICB and LIB would be subject to
prior review by the Bank and the remaining contracts would be subject to ex-post review by supervision
missions. The Bank's prior review of procurement documentation would cover all major procurement
steps, including invitation to bid, advertising, bidding documents, evaluation methodologies and
reports, award recommendations and contracts.
93.    Consulting Services: A plan for hiring consultants would be submitted to the Bank for review
and approval as part of the Annual Action Plan, before consultants are hired. The selection and
appointment of consultants would be in accordance with the World Bank: "Guidelines: Use of
Consultants by Ubrld Bank Borrowers and the Ubrld Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981. The Bank's Standard Letters of Invitation and Standard Forms of Contract for
Consultant's Services would be adapted, as appropriate, to each assigmment and used for contracting all
technical assistance under the loan.
94.    All consultant contracts would be subject to full prior review, in accordance with Bank
Guidelines, including that of: (a) preparation of the terms of reference and budget; (b) choice of
selection procedure; (c) preparation of the Short List and the Letter of Invitation; (d) the winning
proposal and the Evaluation Report; and (e) the draft contract. However, consultant contracts estimated
to cost below US$ 50,000 for firms and US$ 20,000 for individuals, except the first two contracts in
each category, would require only the review of the terms of reference, qualifications, experience, and
conditions of employment of the selected consultants on an ex-ante basis. Supporting documents for
these contracts would be reviewed selectively on an ex-post basis. This exception to the Bank's review
shall not, however, apply to assignments involving single source selection of firms; assignments of a
critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank; amendments to the contracts for the employment
of firms raising the value of such contracts to US$ 50,000 or above; and amendments to the contracts
for the employment of individuals raising the value of such contracts to US$ 20,000 or above.
Contracts with consulting firms valued at US$ 50,000 or below will not exceed US$ 3.0 million in
aggregate.



Jamaica Pu blic Sector Modernizahon Project:: SAR: 7/96                                                      32
95.     The limits established for prior Bank review of procurement decisions are expected to result in
a coverage of about 80% of Bank-financed contracts.
96.     The borrower's procurement regulations and procedures have been reviewed by Bank staff in
the context of previous projects and the country procurement assessment and have been found to be
generally consistent with Bank guidelines.
97.      Training and Infornation Campaign:  After the Annual Action Plan relating to Training and
the Information Campaign has been approved, expenditures under these categories would be made
against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).
98.     Civil Wrks: The entire cost of construction of new buildings and refurbishing of old buildings
will be financed by GOJ according to its local procedures.
7Tble 5: Summary of Procurement Arrangements (uss thousands)
.':..-' ..   .... . .' ... .,', '                         ..... '_                                  TO TA L
Goods                           10,600                   0            1,500              6,330          18,430
(10,600)               (0)            (1,500)               (0)         (12,100)
Consultants                                                          14,000             12,200          26,200
(14,000)              (0)         (14,000)
Training                                                              2,050              2,040           4,090
(2,050)              (0)          (2,050)
Civil Works                                                                              8,030           8,030
(0)             (0)
Information
Campaign                                                                250                                250
(250)                             (250)
Total                          10,600                    0           17,800            28,600           57,000
(10,600)                (0)          (17,800)               (0)         (28,400)
Notes: 1. Figures in parentheses indicate expenditures financed by IBRD. 2. ICB: Intemational Competitive Bidding. 3. NCB: National
Competitive Bidding.  4. 'OTHIER" includes Limited International Bidding, Shopping, consultants and training.  5. NBF: Not Bank
Financed.



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project:: SAR: 7/96                                       33
Table 6: Procurement Prior Review and SOE Thresholds (uss thousands)
.    <  .   ~.. .   ...  ..   ...  .      --
Goods                          All contracts 250                    All contracts < 50
Consultants                    .  Firms: Contracts 2 50 and first two   .  Fimis: Contracts < 50,
contracts < 50                       except the first two
*  Individuals: Contracts 2 20 and first  contracts.
two contracts < 20               .  Individuals: Contracts <
*  All contracts involving: (a) Single  20, except the first two
Source Selection of Firms; (b)       contracts.
Assigmnents of a critical nature; and
(c) contract amendments increasing
the amount of the contract to more
than 50, in the case of firms, and
more that 20, in the case of
individuals.
Training                                                            *  All expenditures, after
approval of Annual Action
Plan.
Information Campaign                                                .  All expenditures, after
approval of Annual Action
Plan.
Civil Works                    Not Applicable                       Not Applicable
12     Disbursement and Special Account
99.    The Borrower's Financial Administration and Audit Act, as amended up to July 1992, has been
reviewed during appraisal and has been found to be acceptable for use with a Special Account.
100.   The proceeds of the Loan would be disbursed against 100% of foreign expenditures and 85%
of local expenditures on Goods, and 100% of expenditures on Consultants, Training and Information
Campaign. Table 7 indicates different categories of expenditures to be financed by the Loan, the
allocation of the loan amount to each category and the percentage of expenditures to be financed in
each category. The Loan, including retroactive financing of US$ 2.0 million, is expected to be
disbursed by the end of the fifth year of project implementation. A Special Account in US Dollars,
with an authorized allocation of US$ 2.0 million, equivalent to an estimated four months of average
disbursements, will be established in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. During the start-up of
the project, the PCU will be able to request up to US$ 1.0 million as an initial deposit to the Special
Account. After disbursements and commitments from the loan account have reached US$ 5.0 million,
the PCU would be able to request up to the authorized allocation. Disbursements against contracts not
subject to Bank prior review would be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Table 8 gives
the estimated disbursements by fiscal year.



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project: SAR: 7/96                                    34
Table 7: Disbursement by Category of Expenditure (USS thousands)
C ~Y.      ....     Amiouof. Loa          %  f Expp_ I~tr  tob     .
Goods                   12,100               100% of Foreign and 85% of Local Expenditures.
Consultants             14,000               100%
Training                 2,050               100%
Information Campaign       250               100%
Total                   28,400
Table 8: Estimated Disbursements By Fiscal Year (uss thousands)
FY96-~7  FY97-9       FY98-&F94             . Y01       F042.
Annual              1,500        5,000       7,500        7,500      5,000       1,900
Commulative         1,500        6,500      14,000       21,500     26,500     28,400
E.    Accounting and Audits
101.  The PCU will maintain records and accounts to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures for each project component. The accounts will be
consolidated annually to prepare the financial statements for the project as a whole. Supporting
documentation will be maintained by the PCU and made available to Bank missions and independent
auditors for scrutiny, as required. For expenditures incurred on the basis of Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs) all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures will be retained by the PCU until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit
report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the
Special Account, whichever is later, was made.
102.  Project records and accounts, including the Special Account and SOEs, will be audited
annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by external
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, with terms of reference for auditors and reports approved
by the Bank. The Bank's "Financial Accounting, Reporting, and Auditing Handbook (FARAH)"
published in January 1995 would be used by the independent auditors in accordance with Bank auditing
guidelines. Cost of the consultant services to be employed for the annual audits (US$ 25,000
equivalent through the life of the project) will be eligible for financing under the loan. Audit reports
will be furnished to the Bank within three months after close of the Government's fiscal year.
PROJECT RISKS AND BENEFITS
Project Risks
103.  The major risks are: waning of political commitment to the project; the unwillingness of the
government to grant adequate autonomy to the executive agencies; the lack of dynamic and inspiring
leaders in the targeted agencies; and the mismanagement of the complex organizational change process.
The project is being designed to achieve observable improvements in some of the targeted public
services within a short time period. Such early successes would demonstrate the feasibility and



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project:: SAR: 7/96                                   35
benefits of the strategy adopted by the project, thus, firming up government commitment. External
factors, such as the growing public demand for improved public services and the need for an efficient
public sector to facilitate private sector growth, would also keep the government committed to public
sector modernization. Discussions with GOJ have indicated that the government is keen on creating
executive agencies and would be willing to grant them the requisite autonomy. To further reduce the
related risk, disbursements for the executive agencies and Ministries would be linked to the execution
of Framework Documents, satisfactory to the Bank. Appropriate remedies have also been incorporated
in the Loan Agreement to guard against unwarranted withdrawal of autonomy granted to the entities
covered by the project. To ensure high quality leadership in the executive agencies, the appointment
of CEOs acceptable to the Bank has been made a condition for disbursement. It is expected that a
strong PCU, working closely with the agencies involved in the project, will ensure that the
organizational changes in the Ministries and executive agencies are managed effectively.
Project Benefits
104.  Conversion of public entities into performance oriented executive agencies, operating with
greater autonomy and a modern resource base, will significantly improve quality of services provided
by them to their clients. Strengthening the central divisions in Ministries will improve the quality of
public policies and enhance government control over their implementations. The experience gained in
the pilot agencies targeted by the project, will set the stage for modernizing the rest of the public
sector. Privatization of activities that can be better performed by the private sector will increase
competition and benefit consumers, enable the public sector to focus on its core competencies and
reduce the fiscal burden imposed by inefficient public enterprises. Strengthening of procurement and
contracting will ensure that government receives value for money for the huge annual outlays on
goods, works and services. Improving internal control and auditing will enhance accountability and
transparency in public financial management and ensure that delegated financial powers are exercised
properly. Finally, the extension of the FMIS and HRMIS will improve efficiency in financial and
personnel management in the public sector as a whole.
SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS
105.  Agreements Reached at Negotiations:
*  It was agreed that, against the provision that had been made at Appraisal for the inclusion
of two additional agencies under the Modernization of Public Sector Entities component,
Jamaica Promotions Corporation (JAMPRO) and the Construction Division of the Ministry
of Local Government and Works would be included in the component.
*  It was agreed that the objectives of privatization of the water and sewerage sector were to
(a) provide an efficient and reliable supply of water and sewerage services at the least
economic cost; (b) attract foreign and local private finance and broaden ownership; and (c)
promote environmentally acceptable operation of the water and sewerage sector. The
recommendations of a diagnostic study are currently being reviewed by government.
Informed by the findings of the study, GOJ plans to introduce a Water Policy Paper that
would outline a process for rational development and use of the island's water resources
and sewerage treatment and disposal facilities. The second phase of the study will address
the institutional, regulatory, legal and financial implications of the recommended policy.
Based on the results of the second phase study, GOJ is likely to take a decision by March



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project:: SAR: 7/96                                  36
31, 1997 on the strategy for private sector participation in the water and sewerage sector.
An Action Plan will, thereafter, be prepared for implementation of the strategy from Fiscal
year 1997-98 onwards.
* With respect to privatization or contracting out of agencies and services, it was agreed to
treat the list of such agencies and services developed by GOJ as an indicative list. As part
of the Annual Action Plan (AAP) for each year, the Bank and GOI will agree on the
specific agencies and services to be taken up for privatization/contracting out.
*  It was agreed to create a separate disbursement category, Information Campaign", for
expenditures to be incurred in connection with the proposed communication campaign.
Proposed activities under this category and under "Training" would be included in the
AAP and the related expenditures would be incurred through Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs) after the AAP has been approved by the Bank.
* Agreements were reached on the following:
The Operational Manual of the Project (para 84).
*  Terms of Reference (TORs) of PCU staff were agreed at Negotiations (para 84).
*  TORs for the preparation of the Modernization Plan, the Medium- Term Financing
Plan and the Framework Document (para 36).
*  Project Costs and Financing (para 82).
*  Project Implementation, Procurement, Disbursement and Special Account, and
Accounting and Audits (para 83 to 102).
*  Key Project Performance Indicators (annex 1).
*  Project Implementation Schedule (Annex 6).
106.  Loan Conditions:.
(A) Conditions of Effectiveness
*      Adoption by GOJ of the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank. (para 84).
*      Appointment of the following staff in the PCU (para 84):
*     Project Director
*     International Project Coordinator
Senior Project Officer
Finance and Accounting Manager
*      Accounting and Administration Officer
*     Information Technology Coordinator
*     Two Agency/Ministry Coordinators
*     Procurement, Auditing and Internal Control Component Coordinator
*     Administrative Secretaries.
*      Signing of the Cooperation Agreement between GOJ and the NIBJ for the execution of
the Privatization Component (see para 85).
*      Preparation and furnishing to the Bank of the Action Plan for FY 1996-97 (see para
87).
*      Furnishing of evidence regarding the availability of adequate counterpart funds for FY
1996-97 (see para 87).



Jamaico Public Sector Modernizanon Project: SAR: 7,96                                    37
(B) Conditions of Disbursement
Under the Modernization of Public Sector Entities Component, for each Executive
Agency and Ministry:
*      Disbursements for the preparation of the Modernization Plan, Medium-Term Financing
Plan and the Framework Document would be subject to the appointment of a CEO,
with qualifications acceptable to the Bank, in the case of an Executive Agency, and the
appointment of a Permanent Secretary, in the case of a Ministry (see paras 43 and 50).
*      Disbursements for the implementation of the Modernization Plan would be subject to
(a) the preparation of the Modernization Plan, Medium-Term Financing Plan and the
Framework Document, satisfactory to the Bank; (b) signing of the Framework
Document by GOJ and the concerned CEO or Permanent Secretary, as the case may
be, and (c) a legal framework, satisfactory to the Bank, being in full force and effect to
enable the agency or Ministry concerned to carry out its Modernization Plan (see paras
43 and 50).
Recommendation
107.  Subject to the above, the proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for a loan of
US$28.4 million repayable in 17 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard interest
rate for LIBOR based US Dollar single currency loans.



Jamaica Public Sector Modernizalion Pro ect:: .AR: '196                                   38
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
1. Medium-Term Policy Framework and Public Sector Investment Program - 1994/95 to 1996/97
Government of Jamaica.
2. Review of the Role and Structure of Government: Ken Rattray, Solicitor General, Jamaica
3. The Establishment of Executive Agencies: Certain Constitutional, Legal and Practical
Considerations: Michael Prescod.
4. Opinion of the Attorney General of Jamaica on the Suitability of the Existing Legal Framework for
the Creation of Executive Agencies.
5. Draft Handbook For Government Financial Administration.
6. Guidelines for Delegated Functions.
7. Executive Agency Strategy
8. Executive Agency Agreement - Guidelines.
9. Functional Review of the Ministry of Local Government and Works.
10. Functional Review of Ministry of Environment and Housing.
11. Study of Procurement Procedures and Operations.
12. Jamaica Country Procurement Assessment Report.
13. Review of FMIS and HRMIS.
14. Matrix of Expected Wage Costs.
15. Full Salary Matrix and Post Analysis for Central Government
16. Outline of Communications Program for Public Sector Modernization Project.
17. Feedback of various agencies involved in the Project on different versions of the SAR.
18. Comments of Peer Reviewers.
19. Operational Manual dated June 5, 1996.



ANNEX 1
KEY PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
ectives                      Inputs                        Outputs                       Impact                      Performance                   Timring
Indicators
Modernization of Public
Entities - Executive
Agencies
Bring about major            Consultancies to prepare, for                               Improvement in              Separate performance           Jamaica Customs Department
improvements in the quality    each Executive Agency:                                                                indicators have been           - 4/96 to 12/01
of servlc provided by A .        Modernization Plan;                                         Service quality;       developed for eleven           Office of Titles - 9/96 to
selected Executive Agencies.,
Medium Term                                           .   Service quantity:       Executive Agencies             12/01
Financing                                             .   Cost effectiveness.     (Annex 3).                     Town Planning Department -
Plan; and                                                                                                        9/96 to 12/01
*    Framework Document.                                   Increased client satisfaction                              Surveys Department -9/96 to
as reflected in surveys.                                   12/01
Consultants, goods and                                                                                                Jamaica Information Service -
training to implement the                                                                                             9/96 to 9/00
Modernization Plan.                                                                                                   JAMPRESS - 9/96 to 9/00
Planning Institute of Jamaica -
4/97 to 12/01
Registrar General's
Department - 9/96 to 9/00
Registrar of Companies -
9/96 to 6/01
Administrator General -
12/96 to 1/01
MIND - 3/97 to 12/01
JAMPRO - 4/97 to 12/01
Const. Div. of MLGW - 7/97
to 12/01
w



Jamaica Public Sector Modemization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 1: Key Monitoring Indicators                                                                                    2
Ot.jectvts 0;0   i;;          Inp:;                        Outputs                      Impact                      PeTformance                   Ti:ming
... . ......                                               ~~~~~~~~~~Indicators
Modernizatdon of Public
Entities - Ministries
Improve the ability of
selected Ministries to:      Consultancies to prepare. for   For each Ministry:         Well-informed,              Separate performance          Ministry of Environment and
(a) formulate sound sector   each Ministry:                *   Modernization Plan;      economically and            indicators have been          Housing - 9/96 tol2/01
policies, technical standards    *   Modernization Plan:   *   Medium Term              technically sound Sector    developed for the identified
and oe rational  snors       *   Medium Term                   Financing                Policies:                   Ministries (Annex 3).         Ministry of Local Government
and oeai       ,             Financing                     Plan; and                                                                         and Works - 2/97 to 12/01
(b) effectively mronitor and      Plan; and                *   Framework Document.   Formulation and
evaluate downstream          *   Framework Document.                                    enforcement of high quality
agencies to ensure that                                                                 technical standards;
desired policy objectives are
achieved, and                Consultants, goods and        For each Ministry , upon     Formulation and
training to implement the    implementation of the        enforcement of efficient,
(c) efficienthy perform      Modernization Plan.           Modernization Plan:          transparent and object-
corporate management                                       *  Increased autonomy;       oriented operational norms;
functions;                                                 *  A contractual obligation
to achieve clearly defined   Effective monitoring of
performance targets;     operational agencies
*  Strengthened legal and    affiliated to the Ministry
normative framework;     resulting in cost-effective
*  Streamlined               and timely policy
organizational structure    implementation.
of the central divisions;    Effective corporate
*  Rightsized staff
complement.              management based on
*  Improved staff skills;    modern corporate planning,
*  Incentive structure suited   budgeting, personnel and
to achievement of        financial management
organizational objectives;  accountability techniqaue
*  Re-engineered business    and standards.
processes;
*       Modern management and   Increased public satisfaction
operational sgernes      with the performance of the
*   Upgraded tools,tm        Ministry, as reflected in
equipment and facilities.



luniiaica Puhlic Sector Modernization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 1: Key Monitoring Indicators                                                                                      3
Objecth,es                    inputs                        Outputs                        Impact                      Performance                    Timning
Indicators
Privatization
Continue the Rationalization
of the public sector through:
(a) private participation in the   Consultants to prepare   Private sector participation in   Improved and economical    Improvement in the quality of   2/96 to 4/01
water supply and sewerage     privatization strategies and  the Water and Sewerage         provision of quality of     water supply and sewerage
sector;                       bidding documents and assist   Sector;                      water supply and sewerage    services as reflected in
GOJ in executing transactions                               services;                    consumer surveys:
related to privatization of the
water and sewerage sector.                                  Private sector investment in   Degree of private sector
the water sector to meet    involvement in management of
current and anticipated     and investment in the water
capacity gaps;              and sewerage sector.
Consultants to prepare        Privatization or contracting  Better quality, more cost-   Number of entities             Number of facilities and
(b) privatization or          privatization strategies and  out of targeted facilities and  effective provision of     privatized/contracted out.     services to be
contracting out of facilities  bidding documents and assist   services.                   services to clients.                                        privatized/contracted out:
and services, where           GOJ in executing transactions                                                            Cost savings achieved.
government has no             related to facilities and                                                                                               9/96 to 3/97:  5
comparative advantage; and    services targeted for                                                                    Improvement in quality of      4/97 to 3/98:  7
privatization/contracing ouL                                                             service as reflected in client  4/98 to 3/99: 10
surveys.                       4/99 to 3/00:  7
3/00to12/01: 6
lbtal:       35
(c) Institutional strengthening    A long-term Resident Adviser   Privatization transactions;  Enhanced institutional  Improvements in NlBJ's         9/96 to 12/01
of NIBJ                       to assist NIBJ to put togetier   communication campaigns to   capacity of NIBJ to        efficiency and effectiveness in
and implement privatizations;  inform the public on         implement privatization      conducting privatization
consultants to strengthen     privatization; and training   transactions.               transactions as reflected in
ND3J's public relations and   courses attended by NIBJ                                   *   design of privatization
marketing capabilities; and   staff.                                                         transactions;
training to NIBJ staff.                                                                  *    access to potential
investors;
* negotiating skills;
*    quality of outcomes;
*    degree of transparency of
and public support for
executed transactions.



Jamnaica Public Sector Modemization FProject: SAR: 7/96: Annex 1: Key Monitoring Indicators                                                                                  4
Objectives                   inputs                        Outputs                      impact                      Perfmance                     Timing
Indicators
Government
Procurement,
Contracting, Internal
Cooitrol and Auditing
Improve efficiency. value for   Consultants. goods and     Establishment of:            Enhanced value for money.   Increased cost-effectiveness.  *   Procurement Policy
money and transparency in    training to establish and     *   Procurement Policy       efficiency. transparency and                                   Implementation Unit -
government procurement and   strengthen:                        Implementation Unit:    accountability in           Reduction in time taken to         9/96 to 8/99
contracting:                 *   Procurement Policy        *   Procurement              procurement and             complete procurement and      *   Procurement Committees
Implementation Unit in       Committees and           contracting.               contracting actions.               and Procurement]
the Ministry of Finance      Procurement/                                                                           Contracting Units in all
and Planning;                Contracting Units in all  Improved contract         Improvement in disbursement        ministries - 9/96 to 9/00
*   Procurement                   ministries;             management.                 profile of major projects.    *   Secretariat in the Office
Commiitees and          *   Secretariat in the Office                                                               of the Contractor
Procurement/                 of the Contractor                                   Reduction in cost over-runs        General - 9/96 to 8/99
Contracting Units in all     General.                                            and slippage in major projects.
ministries;
*   Establish the Secretariat   Updated manuals of policies,                          Consistency in application of
in the Office of the    rules and procedures for                                 prescribed rules and
Contractor General.     procurement and contracting.                             procedures in procurement
*   Development of                                                                    and contracting decisions
transparent and efficient   Computerized information                             throughout government.
systems and procedures   systems for gathering market
for procurement,        information, monitoring                                  Diminution in allegations of
contracting and contract  contract execution and                                 misconduct in procurement
management.             evaluation of performance of                             and contracting decisions.
suppliers and contractors.
Trained staff to handle
procurement and contracting
activities



Jamaica Public Sector Modemization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 1: Key Monitoring Indicators                                                                              5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ottt. .                                               .                             ....     .... .. .. ...  ....
Obeccvs:                 :hp~it~ :O1nts                                              hpact                      Perfora::e  Timing
:Wicators
Government
Procurement,
Contracting, Internal
Control and Auditing
(contd.)
Enhance public sector       Consultants, goods and      Manual of principles, norms    Increased transparency,  Increased ability of internal  Internal Audit Directorate:
accountability by           training to:                and procedures to establish  accountability and probity    auditors to check errors and  9/96 to 8/99
strengthening internal and  *   Establish and strengthen  effective internal control  in activities of public   irregularities ex-ante as
external controls.               the Internal Audit     systems in public entities;  entities.                 reflected in internal audit
Directorate in the                                                            reports.
Ministry of Finance and   Uniform standards for
Planning;              conducting internal audits;                            Increased ability of the      Auditor General: 9/96 to 8/99
Strengthen the Office of                                                      Auditor General to detect
the Auditor General    Trained auditors to exercise                           serious errors and
effective internal control.                            malfeasance, ex-post as
reflected in annual report
Enhanced capacity of the                               submitted to Parliament.
Auditor Geneml to audit
computerized accounts and
procurement and contracting
decisions.
MNS
Improve the quality of      Consultants, goods and      Additional modules of the    Increased efficiency, control  Evaluation of additional  9/96 to 12/01
financial and personnel    training to:                 FMIS and ERMIS              and transparency in public   software modules developed,
management in the pubfic    *   Complete the                                        financial and personnel    through expert opinions and
sector through computerized      developmnent of the    Installation and            management.                client surveys.
infornation systems.             FMIS and HRMIS; and   commissioning of the systems
*   Complete the           in all government entities.                             Use of the systems in the day
installation of these                                                         to day to work of public
sytems in ae entities.
government entities.
Quality and timely availability
of data for preparation of the
national budget, national
financial accounts, auditing
and personnel management
decisions.



Janaica Public Sector Modemization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 1: Key Monitoring Indicators                                                                              6
Objectives  I                         Outputs                                                Perfonnan                      unin~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....  .............    ..... ...
Project Implementation,
Communication
Campaign and
Development of Stage 11
Efficiently and effectively  Consultants. goods and     Project management           Efficient implementation of   Degree of achievement of  9/96 to 12/01
implement the project.      training                    activities,                 the project.               targets set in the Annual
Action Plans.
Mobilize support of         Consultants                 Communication strategy and    Wide-spread support for the   Effectiveness with which  9/96 to 12/01
stakeholders for public sector                          actions                      modernization project      public support built for the
modernPization,                                                                      amongst different          project and opposition
stakeholders.             reduced .
Prepare the next stage of the    Consultants            Action plan for Stage 11 of  Sustained momentum for     Quality of Action Plan for next  9/96 to 12/01
modernization process to                                public Sector Modernization    Modernization of the whole  stage of public sector
public sector,            modernization, with special
(a) extend the reforms in the                                                                                  reference to the degree to
pilot entities to the rest of the                                                                               which lessons learnt in past
public sector; and                                                                                             initiatives and this project are
(b) introduce other systemic                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~incorporated therein and the
refrm inrequired inther   publeic                                                                              nature, feasibility and cost of
reforms required in the public                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~proposed strategy.
sector.



ANNEX 2
Background Information on Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministries
Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ)
Ministry of Finance and Planning
..... . . Main Functions/Acddties                                                        1995             CunT Pit Fludal            Consams and Weaknses
._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __         :.:_._::_    _::::_:::. _:_:_::_.... _ _:_:_:_ _::_: _._.   Em ploym ent         A rran enms ts
The PIOJ (formerly the National Planning   Main Functions:                                        No. of sanctioned   The PIOJ is funded through    1.  Inadequate financing limits
Agency), became a statutory body in April  1.  Initiating and coordinating planning for the economic,    posts:     tax revenue, capital revenue     output of all the main
1984 under the provisions of the Planning      financial, social, cultural and physical development of    179       (loans and grants) and           functions/major activities.
Institute of Jamaica Act (1984). In addition to  Jamaica.                                         Posts filled:      revenue generated through
the functions of the NPA (est. 1972) and the                                                      163                sales of publications.)    2.  Salary scales reduce ability to
Central Planning Unit (est. 1955), the PIOJ  2.  Monitoring the implementation of plans so initiated or    Part-time Posts:                          compete for high quality staff.
was given the special responsibility to        coordinated.                                       5
strengthen the planning capability of the                                                         Temp/Relief
government.                                3.  Undertaking research.                              Posts:
29
The Institute falls under the portfolio of the  4.  Training in planning.                         Others:
Ministry of Fuunce and Panning. The                                                               36
Director General heads the Institute's     5.  Undertaking consultant activities for Government   Total posts being
management team which indcudes a Deputy        Ministries, agencies and statutory bodies.         operated:
Director Generl, a Senior Director and seven                                                      233
Directors.                                 6.  Maintaining a national socio-economic reference
library.
7.  Managing technical cooperation agreements and
programs.



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 2: Background Information on Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministries                                        2
Jamaica Customs Department
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Bacrgouid                                   Main Fnnctions/Acdviie5                         1995              Curret Finandal             Constrais and Weaknesses
Employment             Arrangements.
The Jamaica Customs and Excise            Main Fun nions.                                           Posts filled:       1995-96 Budget:             Financial constraints:
Department was established under the      1. Assessment and collection of Customs Duties and GCT on   900              JS141 million.               -Low salaries:
Revenue Administration Act No. 12 of      imports at the ports of entry.                            Posts Vacant:                                   -Lack of funds to purchase equipment.
1985. It is one of the country's six                                                                44                 1994-95 Revenue targets:    -Lack of funds to renovate and
revenue collecting agencies. Initially, the  2. Enforcemcet of Customs Laws and Regulations.        Total posts:       1$8.841.20 million.          improve work environment.
depanment was supervised by the Revenue                                                             944
Board. However, in April 1991. the        3. Surveillance over activities of all vessels and persois                   1994-95 Revenue collection:   Physical constraints:
supervisory functions of the Revenue Board   entering or leaving the island in order to prevent smuggling.             J$11,089.14 million          -Inadequate space;
were transferred to the Financial Secretary.                                                                                                        -Lack of furniture and equipment:
In October, 1991. Excise functions were   4. Issuing of licenses to Inbound Operators.                                                              -Inadequate/inappropriate working
transferred to the newly established General                                                                                                        conditions;
Consumption Tax (GCT) Department and      5. Inspection of factories to ensure compliance with physical                                             -Inadequate transportation.
the name of the Department was changed to  and accounting controls.
Jarnaica Customs.                                                                                                                                   Lack of autonomy to take decisions on
critical issues such as:
Te Department is headed by a                                                                                                                        -Appropriate grades for staff;
Commissioner of Customs supported by a                                                                                                              -Employment of full complement of
Deputy Commissioner, three Collectors of                                                                                                            staff as demanded by the level of
Customs and other administrative staff.                                                                                                             operations;
-Recruitment and removal of staff.
The Department's primary objective is to
maximize revenue collections from Customs
Duties and Taxes, through the
implementation of effective and efficient
compliance programs, while facilitating
trade.
A computerization program, financed by
GOJ, is underway. Some additional
resources may be needed to implement it
fully. The Department has also received
assistance from the USAID in developing a
new organizational structure and preparing
operational norms.



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 2: Background Information on Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministries                                       3
Office of Titles
Ministry of Environment and Housing
flagrt f                   .           ..   Main fctons/Aeiivitiet                         1995              Curreent Finandal            ConstrAints and W      _
Arralements..
Established in 1889 under the Registration    Main Functions                                       Permanent           The public is charged a fee  I .  Large number of documents
of Tftles Act. The Department is receiving    Regulating all activities affecting the titling of registered land.  posts : 30  set by GOJ for the provision  received daily. Inadequate
assistance through the IDB financed Land  Administering the Registration of Titles Act and the                         of registration services. The     computerization and record
Titling project for the construction of a new    Registration (Strata) Titles Act and regulations made  Temporary &    fees were last adjusted in       imaging equipment. Therefore,
building and development of Titles        thereunder.                                              relief posts: 56    March 1995.                      heavy backlog of work.
Information System and Document
Tracking System. Further inputs are needed   Major Activities:                                     Total: 86           Salary & allowance for       2.  Chronic lack of records storage
in various operational areas.             1.  Issuing new Certificates of Title.                                       permanent staff:                 space affects document retrieval
JI5,173.556.00                   and preservation. New building
2.  Making memorandum endorsements on existing titles to                                                      will not solve this problem.
record transfers, subdivisions, mortgages etc.                         Salary & allowance for
temporary & relief staff:    3.   A large number of old title
3.  Carrying out title searches on behalf of the public.                    J$4,286,570.00                    documents are in a precarious
condition.
4.  Storage and safe-leeping of original titles and                          1994/95 Budget:
documents.                                                             JS14,893,000.00              4.  Inadequate number of qualified
Revenue collected:               lawyers, middle managers and
JS55,304,145.20                  binders.
Amt. retained for incentives:
Nil                         5.  Poor remuneration and working
conditions.
1995/96 Budget:
J$20,273,00000              6.  Heavy staff turnover. Need for
Revenue collected 4/95 to        constant re-training as
9/95 JS37,388,740.97             specialized staff leave.
Amt. retained for incentives:
Nil                         7.  Lack of resources to deal with
public queries promptly.
8.  Information from related
departments, such as Survey and
Town Planning is required to
complete title registration, but
the same is not readily available.
TtIis causes major delays in the
reg istration procea.
&



Jamaica Public Sector Modenization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 2: Background Informnation on Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministres                                               4
Town Planning Department
Ministry of Environment and Housing
:aruz                                 M; -:::-!--: :044:: inF sAs :: ivl                  l9S           Cuir ren!Firnancia Arrangeen                C r n 1i9C ents fnd eannes Ar
Established in 1959.   Main functions:                                                  Filled Posts:       Totally financed through the     1.  Shortage of planners: 70% posts vacant.
To ensure the orderly and progressive development of rural and    70                 regular budgetary mechanism of        Remuneration inadequate to attract qualified
urban areas in order to secure a balance between competing                           GOJ. Fees for subdivision of          individuals.
demands for land.                                                 Sanctioned posts:  land and development
117                applications collected by local  2.  The process of clearing subdivision and
Major Activities:                                                                    authorities, but not shared with      development applications involves a number of
1.  Advising local authorities on:                                                  the TPD even though it plays a        entities and a series of approvals. Needs to be
*   Subdivision of land;                                                     major role in the process. Some       streamlined to reduce delays.
*   Development applications;                                                revenue earned from sale of
*    Use of land.                                                             Atlas.                          3.  Inadequate and outdated equipment.
2.  Preparing physical plans at the national, regional and local                     Total revenue tarned 1994/95:    4.  Inadequate transportation facilities for field
levels.                                                                         J$ 168,905                           work.
3.  Preparing Development Orders on bchalf of the Town and                           1994/95 Budget:
Country Planning Authority and serving as its Technical                         JS18,202,000
Secretariat.
1995/96 Budget:
4.  Assisting in the enforcement of the Town and Country                             JS25,000,000
Planning Act (TCPA).
5.   Advising the Minister, professionals and the public on land use
issues.



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 2: Background Information on Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministries                                                5
Survey Department
Ministry of Environment and Housing
...  . .... .            Maid FndKstA*tivitifs                             1195               Current Fiancia               Constraint and Weakneusi~
'::,,,,,,,,:':. . . ..   . . .   . . .   . . .   . . . . ..':''''  aBF .195:'' CSxadl_s.W
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __..._ _._..._A                          rran g e zna....  ...._            _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _
Established in 1938. Currently, two of its   Main Functions:                                              Posts filled:       1994/95 Budget:               1.  Inability to recruit and retain
division: Cadastral Mapping Division and     Land surveys, mapping and administration of Land             108                 JS19,432,000                       qualified staff due to low
Land Information Systems Division are        Surveyors Act.                                                                                                      remuneration.
receiving assistance under the IDB financed                                                               Posts vacant:       Revenue Collected 1994/95:
Land Titling Project. This project aims at   Major Achivieis:                                             57                  JS2,038,648                   2.   Lack of computerization in
completing the titling process for 36,000     1. Surveying of Public Lands.                                                                                      majority of operational areas.
parcels and developing methodologies for     2. Checking of Cadastral Plans to support the land           Total:              1995/96 Budget:
cadastral mapping and for the digitization of   registration system and technical assistance to Registrar of   165            JS22,101,000                  3.   Outdated equipment.
information generated by the mnapping. The      Titles.
project also aims at establishing a          3. Establishing and maintaining an island-wide network of                        Estimated revenue to be       4.   Lack of a comprehensive
comprehensive land information system that      survey control points.                                                        collected 1995/96:                 Cadastral Map of Jamaica.
would integrate land information stored in   4. Prmparing topographical maps.                                                 JS2,462,000
other government agencies.                   5. Surveying and charting harbors and coastal waters to                                                        5.  Inadequate training.
ensur safe navigation.
6. Arbitrating disputes under the Land Surveyors Act.



Jamaica Public Sector Modemnization Project: SAR: 7196: Annex 2: Background Information on Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministries                                         6
Jamaica Information Service
Office of the Prime Minister
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..                .........                             .. ..... ... ....   ..   - -E-  . ,   .  . .   ..-..  .... ... -,--.,
a   ~       *g~a.ai  .tIA~iis                                                                                               uetIad             ~      Cqt~~p              c
JIS is the masin organization through which  Official infornation dissemination agency of the Govermment   Total staff:   Recurrent and Capital        I   Salaries not competitive with
the government informs citizens about the   of Jamaica. Its chief function is to help maintain effective  251             Expenditures financed by          private sector.
policies, programs and activities of its various   communication and feedback between the govenunent and                  Annual Budget from the
ministries, deparmaents and other public    citizens.                                                                     GOJ.                         2.  Unrealistic fee setting levels.
sector agencies. The department also                                                                                                                        Fees cover only some costs.
disseminates Jamaica's culture and values   Maior Activities                                                              Budget 1994/95:
and helps to promote a sense of unity,      1. Public Affairs and Public Education Campaigns.                             Recurrent:                   3.  No cost accounting system.
national identity and respect for national                                                                                J$50.5 million
institutions.                               2. Production of Radio and Television programs for the                                                     4.  Insufficient technically trained
Govenunent.                                                                Capital:                           staff.
The deparment has publicity and production                                                                                1S16.8 million
capabilities in radio and television,       3.Buying and placing the GOJ's advertising in several media.                                               5.  Old, inadequate technical
advertising, publishing, graphic arts and     Production of publications for the GOJ.                                     Revenue:                          equipment and vehidcles.
public relations. It is organized in seven                                                                                The J1S is not a revenue
departments: Public Affairs; Radio;         4. Informing overseas public through Information Attaches in                  earning Department.
Television; Publications and Advertising;     Jamaica's foreign missions about the GOJ's policies,
Regional Services; Research Unit; Finance     programs and developments in Jamaica.                                       Fees charged only assist in
and Administration; and Overseas Operations.                                                                              recovering some costs, e.g.
5.Provide Mobile Information Units to reach distant parishes                 publications.
and inform citizens of the GOJ's policies and programs.
6.Research topics of interest to the GOJ and monitor public
opinion. Store current information on the GOJ's events
and programs.
iA



Jamaica Public Sector Modemization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 2: Background hnfonnation on Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministries                                                                                       7
JAMPRESS
Office of the Prime Minister
:. -.   :::'::::::':-:''.':':.. :.   ::................. . ....     .. .....  ':.. :'.. .   -'  .     .   .     ..   .. : .     ......   .........     ...     ..::''.'  '1' :'C..     .........     ...  ...   ...  ...    :'':,:, ...... ...
...   .......   ..................   . .....- -     ........   .. .   ..   . ..   .   ..   .   .  .. . .   ..   .. .. .. .   ....   .   . ..   ....   ...........   ...........  ..... . . ...                                         . . .
.. , , , , ,,,,,..   .. ,  ....     .,. .., ... , . .. . .   ..   . , .  . ,     .   . . . . . .   ......  .   .. .   .   ...   ....   .I. .   .   ..   ..   ....... .   -.. - . . . .-                      .. .. .   .   .   .   :.:..:..
Formed in 1984 as a limited liability                  Official news agency of the Government of Jamaica.                       Total posts: 35         Financed by annual                   1.    Salaries not competitive with
company, wholly owned by GOJ. Board and                                                                                                                 subvention from GOJ and                    private sector.
Executive Director appointed by Prime                  Major Acfvi ies:                                                         Editors, reporters    revenues from sale of
Minister.                                              1. Collection and dissemination of information relating to               and photographers   services and publications.              2.    Weak financial and personnel
government policies and programs.                                    are employed on         Capital expenditures                       management systems.
two year contracts    approved by OPM.
2. Making arrangements for coverage of state visits and                  under the rules,                                            3.    No computerized links to JIS or
international conferences by local and international                 conditions and          Enjoys considerable                        other government information
journalists.                                                         pay stmicture of        autonomy in financial                      agencies.
the civil service       management. Collects fees
3. Training of Information Officers of the Jamaica                       (except pensions        from  ministries, other than        4.    Inadequate transportation
Information Service (JIS).                                           structure). Enjoys    Ministry of Fmance and                       facilities.
conaiderable            Planning and Office of the
4.  Isaing miniAerial statenensi.                                        autonomy in             Prime Minister. Tne fees
personnel               are fully retained by it in a
management.             Cost Recovery Fund that is
Employees can be    used to pay cash incentives
dismissed at one        to staff and meet some
month's notice.         recurrent expenses.
Allowed to retain savings
out of the recurrent budget
allocated to it by GOJ.
Office of the Prime Minister
controls capital expenditure.
1994-95 Budget:
J59.1 million.
1994-95 Fee Revenues:
J$ 2 million.
U.



Jamasica Public Sector Modernization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 2: Background Ionnoration on Targeted Executive Agencies and Minites i$
Registrar General's Department
Ministry of Health
Mat&fhia  ..........
TheDet.ha to  aindiison: he Mai Fncios.Pots:Fes orreisratonan                                                                          OerMina
General Register and the sland.. Recor  Rei.rtonad.ae..ig.freodso.irh..6.crife.ope.cage...N.omuerzt.no
Office The  epartent'sfunctins inolve  arriaes, daths,  ills,commo  law itlesetc.,  hich                                                    ncomig.docments
llx  ept ha tw  nui diisins:the   Major Auctionis:                                          fieldFesfo registrar, Rvneclctiod 199/9d               doera ments.
Generl Regsterand te Isand Rc1.dRegisterin n bits,adeaths,go mrriages and adoptios,  and     mainlyfiedcopies 4hre.                           I.  Re cordmnpooeriztonditon.
extensie dealng wit the pufc.produces rlevattsant croertifcts (regitstrandfrmGeneral's      housewiivn tes.det1992   Bisouned inlregistersostacked
ofnuierou                                                                                                    fromnctrnacins  floortJ$700,000  atv toi eiin.i
employs 380                        3.  lmbil~~~inaeute sto ragedl area.ev
2.jo Regviieste wiells,egiswers,ofevateorney,ctcommon9lawdHumndres.oouet
conveyance deeds, opticians, trade union and building                                                       partially destroyed.
societies (Islan  Records Office).                                                                     S.  Poor security of records.
Original documents accesible
3.   Provide certified copies of records to the public on                                                        to all staff increasing risk of
request.                                                                                                   tampering of documents.
6.  Lengthy procedures, requiring
4.   Store vitai records and Laws of Janmaica. The                                                               multiple supporting documents
department possesss documents dating back to 1663                                                           and interviews, for
that have considerable historical, cultura and research                                                     amendment to recorded
value.                                                                                                      entries.
7 .  Lar-kof staff to deal with
5 .  Compile and publish vital statistics.                                                                       Public Relations.
8.  Significant levels of backlog.
9.  Inability to link birth and
death records electronically.
10. No facility to communicate
with Field Staff.
Personne! Management
I .  High rate of attrition.
2.  Scarcity of mriddle and senior
mianagers and preponderance
of clerical staff who can only
perform routin tasks.
3.  Unqualified fielId registrars.
IA



Jamaica Public Sector Mod.nization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 2: Background Iformation on Targeted Executive Agencies and Miristies                                                          9
Ofrice of the Registrar of Companies
Ministry of Industry, Investment and Commerce
.~ ~~~~~~~~~~ .   _.,,........,,..   .....   ... ..... .   ..,,.  .   ..   . .....  ...   ...-                                                                          ..   ,....... .................   ...
. .:' -:-::::::--:- .     ..-::,''........  -.                                                  :                                                                    '-  '.M      FA, :' .....     ....................... '':''':'-''..,.-W.:
Created in 1975.                              Main Fun cuons:                                              Total staff:  67     Expenditure met out of         1.   Legislative framework needs
To register, regulate and supply information on                                  annual budget allocated by          strengthening to keep pace
Companies, ndustrial and Provident Societies and business                       the Ministry of Finance.             with changes in the business
enterprises engaged in commercial and charitable activities                      Revenue collected through           environment and international
in Jamaica, and protection of intellectual property rights                      registration fees, license           developments.
through registration of Trademarks, Patents, and Designs.                        fees, asset tax, interest      2.   Inefficient and cumbersome
penalties and user fees for         work processes.
Major Actvities:                                                                 supply of information to the    3.   Inadequate computerization.
I.   Registering all companies operating in the island,                         public is deposited in the      4.   High rate of increase in
including overseas companies with an established                           Consolidated Fund. Fees              volume of registration work
place of busincss in Jamaica.                                              and Penalties do not                 without commensurate incrmase
adequately reflect                  in staff, work stations and
2.   Monitoring companies to ensure compliance with the                          seriousness of breaches and         storage space.
Companies Act.                                                             costs of services provided by   5.   Limited delegation of finarcial
the office. Last increase in        and personnel decision making
3.   Examining the accounts of companies and provident                           fees was in 1992.                   powers.
and industrial societies to ensure collection of asset                                                     6.   Weak compliance unit, high
tax.                                                                        User fees need to be revised.       delinquency rate and low
penalties leading to lack of
4.   Initiating court proceedings against delinquent                             1994-95 Expenditure                 info. on busines.es to investors
companies and socieies.                                                    Budget:                              and regulatory agencies.
J$ 10.9 million.               7.   High volume of unregistcred
5.  Maintaining up-to-date records of all registered                                                                 businesses which weakens
companies and stipulated business entities and making                       1994-95 Revenue Receipts:           regulatory framework and
the records available to the public.                                       JS35.5 million.                      hindcrs tax collections.
8.   Low level of academically
6.   Registration of Trademarks, Patents, Designs and                                                                qualified staff. Large
Businers Names.                                                                                                 contingent of temporary staff.
9.  Inadequate physical facilities
for public and staff.
10. No changes in legislative
framework in thirty (30) years
for Trademarks, Patents and
)Designs.



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 2: Background Information on Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministries                                                      10
Administrator General
Ministry of National Security and Justice
-  Badipound                               ~~~~~~~~Main F=n tinnActiVites                      195Carrent Thsanda                              CbnstmW:ns ad W~ams
..0     ....:     .D  :.....0:00 .. -  ..-  ..-  ..     .  .... EAS  AiS   ::        :,:   fD 0X:,    :    E      : :007     .: . : t70:      0:
Established under The Administrator             Main Funciions                                              Total Staff: 83      Financed by GOJ and by         1.  Too few staff.
General's Act, 1873.                            Intervenes in and oversees the disposition of estates whose    No vacancies.     fees on estates administered.   2.  Inadequate training resources.
disposition would be problematic without state                                   Estate management              3.   Weak records-keeping
involvement.                                                                     commission set by law at            capacity.
6% of all payments made       4.   Poor access to public records
Major Activines:                                                                 from the estate. Fees for           on estate properties.
1. Determiining need for intervention in the disposifion of                     searches and copies also       5.   Weak rent collection capacity.
an estate.                                                                   established by law.            6.  Inadequate capacity to exploit
2. Overseeing distribution of the assets of such estates.                                                            informnation technology.
3. Managing estate assets for beneficiaries (e.g., minors                        Budget: JS15.8 million.        7.   Lack of transport facilities.
and lunatics).                                                               User Fees: J$913,158.
4. Issuing distributions to beneficiaries.
5. Closing estates under its tewardship.



Jamnaica Public Sector Modanization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 2: Background Information on Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministries                                                      I I
Management Institute for National Development (MIND)
Office of the Prime Minister
,:, .                             :         '      '                                                             195                C,r'''t .i.nia..   C........  .@ t..........t.... 1..F.......  ,W Ca  c _ , d -     W, d 
........          ..   ::.:, ::,: .   ...,. ..    ...  .       ::''''::'' '-.........., ,.:'.,    ,,,.                                                                                  ':. ,,:.........  ::::..  
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _   _~~~~....   . ._ _.........._                            __.                                A rra uzanents
Established in 1994 by merger of               Main Funcicons                                               Lecturers           The training of Civil          1.   Poor faculty compensation.
Administrative Staff College (ASC), Finance    To provide the training required to build those human       21                   Servants is directly funded    2.   Inadequate classroom and
and Accounts College of Training (FACT),    resource capacities that are difficult for public entities to                       by the GOJ. MIND also               faculty facilities.
Secretarial and Clerical College (SCC) and     recruit and retain (because of the low salaries and limnited  Others:            offers training on a fee-basis   3.   Inadequate equipment,
the Mandeville Training Centre (MTC).          chances for advancement that typify Jamaica's Civil          50                 to public employees of               especially modern information
Service).                                                                       statutory bodies,                   technology.
Total staff:        Government-owned               4.   Inadequate curricula
Major Acriviies:                                            61                  companies and other public           development.
I.   Executive and management training;                                         entities whose employees are   5.   Inappropriate mix of course
2.   Public financial administration training;                                  outside the Civil Service.           offerings relative to changing
3.   Secretarial and clerical skills training;                                                                       demand.
4.   Project management training;                                                1994-95 GOJ budget:
5.   Certificate-granting program in Public                                     J$19.0 million.
Administration;
6.   Training to support major GOJ reform initiatives,                          Revenue from course fees:
such as Corporate Planning, FMIS/EIRMIS and the                            J$SI. million.
Adninistrative Reform Program.
LA



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 2: Background Information on Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministries                                  12
Ministry of Local Government and Works
M~~itt   ~ OI - uctte                1995 EM*liytn.       Cuutml Firinen1                     tt Wab
The ministry was created in January 1995 by   Main Functions:                                    Permanent Posts: 774   1995-96            1.  Inability to attract and retain
combining the Local Government functions of the                                                                         Administrative          professional staff.
former Ministry of Local Government, Youth and  A. Public Works:                                 Acting in vacant posts:   Budget: J$32
Sports with the Public Works functions of the  I .  Construction, maintenance and management of  353                    million            2.  Untimely and inadequate flow of
former Ministry of Construction and Housing.      the island's public roads; bridges; storm water                                               financial resources.
control, river training and sea defense works; and   Temporary: 155
drainage networks.                                                                       3.  Lack of integration of the
ODPEM: 42                                     organizational structure of the two
2.  Provision of Technical Services to ministries and                                             recently merged components of the
government agencies for the design, construction    Fire Brigade: 1,652                      Ministry.
and maintenance of government buildings and the
maintenance of vehicles and equipment.        Total: 2,976                              4.  Inadequate computerization.
3.  Protecion of people and property against fires,                                          5.  Insufficient training.
floods and other disasters.
4. Operation and maintenance of a
telecommunications network for the use of
Government and its Agencies.
5.  Provision and maintenance of the traffic
management system.
B. Local Governmmnr
I.  Local government administration for parishes and
Kingston and St. Andrews Corporation.
2.  Provision and maintenance of community amenity
services including garbage collection, street
cleaning, street lighting, public sanitary
conveniences, fire protection, parks and markets,
minor water supply systems and disaster
management.
3.  Social Security and community and welfare
services relating to the poor and the elderly.
I______________________________ 4.  Supervsn. of Friendly Societies and Cooperatives. I
0%



Jamaica Public Sedtor Modemization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 2: Background Information on Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministries                                       13
Ministry of Environment and Housing
Maiot AchttsiowbJe vsvg                   I995 employmton       cotetl Thluci*             CcitPAfr.# anWeanoms
.. .........                               .     .....  .*                                                                                             ....... 9 5    eplyis n  .   .  ...... ... C t.* t
The Ministry was created in January 1995 by  Main Functions                                       Permanent staff: 695    Total salary &      I   The Ministry is still in its formative
combining the Housing section of the Ministry    To develop policies and strategies and manage programs                   allowance:              stage.
of Construction and Housing with the         to promote:                                          Project Staff: 43       JS10,747.890.00
Environment and Physical Planning divisions of                                                                            (as at March       2.  Lack of a planned approach to the
the Ministry of Public Service and the       - the provision of affordable housing solutions within  Temporary & Relief/    1995)                 implementation of the Ministry's
Environment (MPSE). Further, the subjects of   the framework of the National Settlement Strategy;  Casual: 442                                    programs.
Land Administration and Estate Management                                                                                 1995/1996
were transferred to this Ministry from the   - the effective conservation, protection and development  Personal & Executive    Administrative  3.  Lack of proper systems and modern
Ministry of Agriculture and the MPSE         of the country's natural and physical resources in   Assets: 4               Budget: JSI 1.O         technology which could improve
respectively.                                keeping with the principles of sustainable development;                      million                 efficiency and facilitate the production
Total 1. 184                                    and retrieval of information which is
- the proper management and use of lands.                                                           necessary for proper planning and
decision making.
Objectives:
4.  Fragmentation of activities reducing
To develop new repayment models which will link                                                     efficiency.
repayment to the ability to pay; thus enabling full cost
recovery.                                                                                       5.  Archaic laws, Acts, regulations, etc. that
hinder efficient performance.
To increase the housing stock by establishing an
appropriate policy framework and conditions that                                                6.  Duplication of functions in some units
facifitate more private sector participation in housing                                             which are now part of the "new'
development.                                                                                        Ministry.
To develop a land divestment and administration                                                 7.  Lack of mobility to enable officers to
system.                                                                                             obtain on the spot information.
To develop procedures for dealing with environmental
matters and see to their wide dissemination.
To review and revise existing legislation.



Annex 3
Performance Indicators for Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministries
Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ)
Ministy of Finance and Planning
Service Ouantitv
1.  Number.ofPIO-producedreseurc documents.           TBD                          +0                   +10%                  +10% +.10% +.10%
2.  Revenues from consultmncies.                      TBD                          + 10%                 + 10%                +10%X                 + 10%                 + 10%
3. Number of GO1 officals trained in planning and
projec identification, appraisal, management and  TD                          +.10%                 +10%                  +10%                 +10%                  +10%
evaluation.
Service Ouality
.  Improvement ininformational base, analytical       TBD                          + 10%                +10%                  +10%                  +10%                  + 10%
quality, coherence with policy objectives, time
perspective and usefulness of National Plans.
2. Improvement in the monitoring of implementation of
plans.                                           TBD                          +10%                  + 10%                +10%                  +10%                  +10%
3. Improvement in physical performance, disbursement,
outputsandoutcomesofprojetsarel,tive tomtargets.    TBD                       +10%                  +10%                 + 10%                 + 10%                 +10%
4. Improvement in regularly scheduled publications
publishednonvtime.                               TBD                          +10%                  +10%                  +10%                 +10%                  +10%
5.  Improvement in the quality and usefulness of
research papers published.                       TBD                          + 10%                 +10%                 +10%                  + 10%                 +10%
Cost-effectiveness
u. Administrative costs per unit of each major output.  TBD                       -10%                  -10%                  -10%                 -10%                  -10%
2.  Revenues fromsle ofpublications.                  TBD                          +10%                  +10%                 +10%                  +10%                  +10%
xu



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 3 - Performance Indicators for Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministries                                      2
Jamaica Customs Department
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Performance Dimension                             Baseline (1994-95)  Year 1                           Year 2                   Year 3              Year 4                 Yer 5
Abalute Target/         Absolute Tatgetl         Absolte TargelW      Absolute TargeU       Absoutet TafgCt
% Change Relative to    % Change Relative to     % Ctooge Relative   % Chaage Relative to   % Cba*4ge Retaive to
Previous year           Previous year            to Previous year     Previous year          Previous ytat
Service Quantity
I.  Total Revenue Collected                      TBD                          Exceed Annual Tarrct    Exceed Annual Target    Exceed Annual         Exceed Annual Target   Exceed Annual Target set
set by GOJ by 1096      set by GOJ by 10%        Target set by GO    set by GOJ by 10%     by GO  by 10%
by 10%              +10%
2.  Revenue collected through enforcement actions  TBD                         +10%                    + 10%                    +10%                                        +10%
Service quality
1.  Average processing time for:
*   Green-line passengers;                   TBD                          -10%                    -20%                     -20%                 -10%                  -5%
*   Red-line passengers                      TBD                          -10%                    -20%                     -20%                 -10%                  -5%
*   Infornal Commaercial mporters            TBD                          -10%                    -20%                     -20%                 -10%                  -5%
*   Fornal Commercial Importers              TBD                          -10%                    -20%                     -20%                 -10%                  -5%
a   Personal Effects (cargo)                 TBD                          -10%                    -20%                     -20%                 -10%                  -5%
*   Cornmercial Cargo                        TBD                          -10%                    -20%                     -20%                 -10%                  -5%
*   Pre-clearance entries                    TBD                         -10%                     -20%                     -20%                 -10%                  -5%
*    1-3 line entries (cornnodity imports)   TBD                          -10%                    -20%                     -20%                -10%                   -5%
*   Entries exceeding three lines            TBD                          -10%                    -20%                     -20%                -10%                   -5%
*   Refunds and duty drawback                TBD                          -10%                    -20%                     -20%                -10%                   -5%
2.  Client perception as reflected in annual     TBD                          -10%                     -20%                     -20%                -10%                   -5%
surveys.                                    TBD                          +10%                     +20%                     +20%                +20%                   +20%
Cost-effectiveness
I.  Admninistrative costs per J1 of revenue      TBD                          -10%                     -10%                     -10%                -10%                   -10%
colleeted                                                               I                       I                        I                   I                       I                          I
The annual target would be agreed between the department and MOFP. It would be set at a realistic level after taking into account expected macro-economic variations and legal changes as
well as depatnmental resources. The department would attempt to exceed the target through greater effectiveness in enforcement and improved productivity.



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 3 - Performance Indicators for Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministries                                3
Office of Titles
Ministry of Enviromnent and Housing
Service Onantity
1. New certificates of tidle issued:
a. without plans                                To be determined (TBD)      +10%                  +10%                   +10%               +10%                  +10%
b. with plans                                   TBD                         +10%                  +10%                   +10%               +10%                  +10%
2.  Memorandumnendorsements on existing titlea.      TBD                         +10%                   +10%                   +10%               +10%                 +10%
3.  Ownership determinations (title searches) completed.   TBD                   +10%                   +10%                   +10%               +10%                 +10%
4.  Notifications of rejection of caveat issued.     TBD                         +10%                   +10%                   +10%               +10%                 +10%
Service Ouulitv
1. Average new certificates of tidie turnaround time:
a. without plans                                65 working days (wd)        -10%                   -20%                   -20%               -10%                 -5%
b. with plans                                   TBD                         -10%                   -20%                  -32%               -10%                  -5%
2.  Average memorandum endorsement turnaround time.   25 wd                       -10%                 -20%                   -20%                -10%                 -5%
3. Average ownership determnination (tidie search)
turnaround time.                                 90 minutes                 -20%                   -20%                  -20%               -10%                  -5%
4.  Average caveat rejection turnaround timne.       15 wd                       -10%                  -20%l                  -20%               -10%                  -S%
5.  Client perceptiona*sreflected ina*nnualasurveys.  TBD                        +10%                   +20%                   +20%               +20%                 +20%
Cost-effectiveness
1.  Administrative costs per unit of each major output.    TED                   -10%                   -10%                   -10%              -10%                  -10%
2.  User fees collected as a result of increased
productivity.                                   TED                         +10%                   +10%                   +10%               +10%                 +10%
..   .    .    .....   .......    ...    .   ..  .   ....................    ...~~~~e



Jamnaica Public Sector Modemization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 3 - Performance Indicators for Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministries                                         4
Town Planning Department
Ministry of Environment and Housing
Perfbmance Dimension                                     Baseline (1994-95)  Year 1                          Year 2                  Year 3               Ye  4                 Year 5
Abso.ft Ttga!          A:ott T.g.:            Absoute TngeU        AbsoWl   Tngu         Absofttle Tngt
% Chantge Rttive to   %Chlngctke ativeo   % Change EWative   % Chag keltiv,    %chbaaget  e wW:
.: . .. :___________  Prwe'4ous yer                 Pevifus yew            to Prevku yetr        to Pteviou yenr       Prewiovs veer
Service Quantity
1.  Number of new national/regional/local plans prepared   TBD                        + 10%                  +10%                    + 10%                + 10%                 + 10%
each year.
2.  Number of Development Orders published.              TBD                          + 10%                  + 10%                   + 10%                + 10%                 +10%
3.  Number of applications for division of land
processed.                                          TBD                          + 10%                  +10%                    +10%                 + 10%                 +10%
Service Ouality
1.  Average time taken to publish devdopment orders.     TBD                          -10%                   -20%                   -20%                 -10%                  -5%
2. Average time taken to process applications for
division of land.                                   TBD                          -10%                   -20%                    -20%                 -10%                  -5%
3.  Averge respone time to queries from dients.          TBD                          -10%                   -20%                   -20%                  -10%                 -5%
4.  Client perception as rflected in annualsrveys.       TBD                          + 10%                  +20%                    +20%                 +20%                  +20%
Cost-effectiveness
1. Adminiatrative costs per unit of each mjor output.   TBD.                          -10%                  -10%                    -10%                 -10%                  -10%



Jamaica PubEic Sedor Modmnitim Projne: SAR. 7/96: Amex 3 - P futiume Indictm for Tgicd  Exeoutive Agecs and Minisrie                                                                       5
Surveys Department
Minstry of Environment and Housing
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~s %4bag ui; 05                                                                                       % it:0 10e4* :f   tb u                          c4t.    k*w 1 
Service Ouanzitv
1.   Number of new nationaliregional/local maps prepareo   0                                4                        6                       8                      10                     12
acsc year.
2.   Number of parcls suirveyed for ceadaral purposcs.       TBD                            30                       40                      50                     60                     60
Service lualitv
1.   Average turnaud time for certify'ing plans.             16 weeks                       14 weeks                 12 weeks                10 weeks              9 weeks                 8 weeks
2.   Average time taken for preparing plans for anexation
to Certificates of rtde.                               6 working days                  5 working days          4 working days            3 working days       2 working days          2 working days
3.   Time taken to stunt surveys of paes requested by        6 months                       5 months                 4 months                3 months              2 months                2 months
govt.                                                  30 minutes                      25 minutes               20 minutes              1S minutes            10 miutes               10 miinutes
4.   Avenage respnaetime toqueriesafromciient.               TBD                            + 10%                    +20%                     +20%                  +20%                   +20%
5.   Cliet perception as reflected in annual rurveys.
Cogs- effec ti v en sts
1. Adminisrtive costs per unit of each major output          TBD                            -10%                     -10%                    -10%                  -10%                    -10%
2.Userfees oolleaed bsed onimpmoved productivity.            TBD                            + 10%                    +10 lO!                 +10%                   + 10%                  + 10%1
11111111~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  . ......................  .. ....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



Jamaica Puhlic Sector Modernization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 3 - Perornnance Indicators for Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministries
Jamaica Information Service
Office of the Prime Minister
Performance Dimension                                  Baseline (1994-95)  Year I                         Year 2                Year 3                Year 4                Year 5
Absolute Target/      Absolute TargcU      Absolute Target/       Absolute Target!      Absolute Targeti
% Change Relative     % Change Relative     % Change Relative     % Change Relative     % Change Relative tc,
.______.______._ _.__  to Previous year            to Pmevious year     to Previous year      to Previous vear       Previous year
Service Ouantity
1. No. of main Promotional Events covered each year.   TBD                          + 10%                 + 10%                 + 10%                 +10%                  +10%
2. No. of releases. features, photographs, radio and
television programs, booklets and advertising slots
produced each year.                                  TBD                          + 10%                 +20%                  +20%                  +20%                   +20%
Service Quality
1. Quality of releases, features, photographs, radio and
television programs, booklets and advertising slots as
reflected in client surveys.                         TBD                          + 10%                 + 10%                 + 10%                 +10%                   + 10%
2. Collections from sales of publications and audio and
video tapes through improved quality, customer service
and marketing.                                       TBD                          +10%                  +20%                  +20%                  +20%                   +20%
Cost-effectiveness
1. Cost/miain promotional event.                       TBD                          -10%                  -10%                 -10%                  -10%                   -10%



Jamaica Public Sector Modanization Project: SAR: 7/96: Amex 3 - Pefrmce Imicators for Tgeted Exeoetive Agacits an Ministries                                                              7
JAMPRESS
Office of the Prime Minister
}:''''-'- ~ ~ ~ ~ ....       .....:'   ,. .                            .........-   .. -......             ..    .                  . 
.                                                                              2::   ::  R   :: :    : .... ... .... . m. . . . . . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . .   . . .  
Service Ouantity
1. No. of news events covered each year.                   1,431                          + 10%                   +10%                   + 10%                   +10%                    + 10%
2. No. of releases, features and photographs.              Releases: 2,566; Features:
74;                         +410%                    +20%                   +20%                    +20%                    +20%
Phoographs: 2,128.
Service Ouality
I. Quality of release, features and photographs as retflected   1. TBD                    + 10%                   +10%                    + 10%                  + 10%                   +10%
in dient surveys.
2. Collections from subscriptions and user fees through    2. User Fee: JS 1,800,000;
improved quality, customer service and marketing.          Subsciptions 1S 69,000        + 10%                  +20%                    +20%                   +20%                    +20%
Cost-effectiveness
1. Cost/release.                                          JS 500                          -10%                    -10%                   -10%                    -10%                    -10%
o'



Janaica Public Sodor Modenizatimn Projct: SAR: 7/96: Anex 3 - Peformance Indicators for Targeted Executive Agmicies and Mitries 
Registrar General's Department
Ministry of Health
Nor     .                                        Baseli. (1.:4--)  Ye: 1Y2                                                Year 3    -                r :  4 -- .Y.            5
: : ~~~~.:  .::.-::::::.:.. :.:::.::..Ab. ........                                                                                                                     :Y A
JAbsanaae-             A4bsolteTaxgct/      AhmbeTisar             -Absolutie Tagt       Absolute Target
.% Change Reative    : ChangeReative    % Cne  Relative .:  Ciange RelatMive :    Chang  Relative to
:............::-::............ -:.. . ..                 t Pvious              to   vousyar          t PiUSa               to Prevs er           Prvi . yes
Service Ouantitv
1. Vital statistics' registrations completed (births,
deaths, marriages, stillbirths).                  84,600                        +10%                  +10%                  +10%                  + 10%                 + 10%
2.  Certified registralion copies isued.               150,000                       +10%                  +10%                  +10%                  +10%                  + 10%
3.  Deeds recorded.                                    18,720                        + 10%                 +10%                  + 10%                 +10%                  + 10%
4.  Authenticated copies of recorded documents issued.    1,150                      + 10%                 + 10%                 + 10%                 +10%                  +10%
5.  Inquries answered.                                 TBD                           + 10%                 + 10%                 + 10%                 +10%                  + 10%
Service Ouslity
1. Average turnaround time for registering records that
need no assesment.                                 20 working days (wd).        -10%                  -20%                  -20%                  -10%                   -5%
2.  Averge turound time for late registntions.
Expdited
Kingston/St. Catherine/Clarendon                  30 wd                        -10%                 -20%                  -20%                   -10%                   -5%
*   Rest of ldand                                  30 wd                        -10%                  -20%                 -20%                   -10%                   -5%
Non-expedited
*   Kingston/St. Catherine/Clarendon               19 months                    -10%                  -20%                 -20%                   -10%                   -5%
*   Rest of sland                                  12 months                    -10%                  -20%                 -20%                   -10%                   -5%
3.  Average turnaround time for correction of errors and
late entry of names.
*   Expedited                                      20 wd                        -10%                  -20%                 -20%                   -10%                  -5%
*   Non-expedited                                  30 wd                        -10%                  -20%                 -20%                   -10%                  -5%
4.  Average turnaround time for addition of father's
particulars and re-registration of status.
a   Expedited                                      5 wd                         -10%                 -20%                  -20%                  -10%                   -5X
*   Non-expedited                                  65 wd                        -10%                 -20%                  -20%                  -10%                   -5%
5.  Average turnaround time for recording of deeds.
v   Expedited                                      4 years                     -10%                  -20%                  -20%                  -10%                   -5%
*   Non-expedited                                  5 years                     -10%                  -20%                  -20%                  -10%                   -5%
6.  Average turnaround time for providing authenticated
copies of recorded documents.                      15 wd.                       -10%                  -20%                 -20%                   -10%                  -5%
7.  Average time required for user inquiry to be
satisfactorily answered.                          TBD                           -10%.                -20%                  -20%                   -10%.                  -5%
8.  Client perception as reflected in annual surveys.
TBD                          + 10%                + 10%                 +10OX                  + 10%                 + 10%
0o,



Jamraica Public Sector Modernization Project SAR: 7/96: Armex 3 - Performance Indicators for Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministries                                             9
Perfowance Dinension                                        ase B ie (1994-95).Y ar 1                           Ye2                  YeVa 3                     a 4                Year 5
A so ii Taeg:          Ab te TaiV            AbsoWe Targ. .         AW10.. Tatr            Absolute Target/
% Cba~~p ~~4 ~ 0ve     20 R4tWe        %cmftm Pi"e            % J(h l ~**it          %Chsoe Relatiwc I"
_______:::______::::________:_::::__:: _i _:_____:_                           ::::_:: to Ptviout ycir        t ?revious tfi a twsPyw  w presus t yogFieV,Mvio0s yi                Ptviousa year
Cost-effectiveness
I.  Administrative costs per unit of each rnajor output.  TBD                           -10%                   -10%                  -10%                   -10%                   -10%
2.   User fees collected based on improved productivity.    TBD                         + 10%                  + 10%                  +10%                   + 10%                  +10%
ol



Jamaica Public Scstor Modemnization Project SAR 7/96 Amex 3 -Perfomance Indicators for Targetd Exewtive Agencies and Ministries                                                10
Office of the Registrar of Companes
Ministry of Industry, lInvestment and Commerce
Pfrmane Dimension                                       Bse.line ( 149)  Yea 1 .                             .: Ye'r 2            Yer3Year .: .  ' '  -                        ..4 Year '...
:AbsduTc   eV!           bo#irst             Aslt  a )             AbsolTe TrgEt          Absolute TsS:-
n           a       -  - - -- - - - - - - -- %:Change  eVW %       I    s -
_          _   _ ~~~_________  toinn yea   ta Pnwiiaar    _oPeiosya                                                         to ; _rlbssa          Peiu 
Service Ouantity
1.  Reduce the ratio of applications for registration of
Companies, Trademarks, Patents, Designs and
Business Names pending at the end of the fial year
to the total number of application b/f nd new
applications received during the year.             TBD                          -10%                   -20%                  -30%                   -20%                   -10%
2.  No. of company acom         eamined.                TBD                           +10%                  +10%                  +10%                   +10%                  +10%
3.  No. of court procdigs initiated against deinquen  Ts D                           +10%                   +10%                  +10%                   +10%                  +10%
wmpanies and soeties.
4. Ratio of number of senvice request responded to
tod rmmber of evwye reqoea recived.                TBD                           80%                   85%                    90%                   95%                    100%
Service Oulit
1.  Avae tunwound time for egitrati:
a. Companies                                        30 wodking days (wd)         -20%                  -30%                   -30%                  -20%                   -10%
b. TrademArks                                      TBD                          -20%                   -30%                  -30%                   -20%                  -10%
c. Paten                                           TBD                          -20%                   -30%                  -30%                   -20%                  -10%
d. Designs                                         TBD                          -20%                   -30%                  -30%                   -20%                  -10%
e. Buin  names                                     TBD                          -20%                   -30%                  -30%                   -20%                  -10%
2.  Compliance rate for companys' registation.          TBD                          -20%                   -30%                  -30%                   -20%                  -10%
3.  Fraction of court procmedings initiated that resulted in
judgments in favor of the Registraes complaint.    TBD                           +10%                  +10%                   +-10%                 +10%                   +10%
4. Average turnaround time for responding to service
requests.                                          TBD                          -20%                   -30%                  -25%                   -20%                  -10%
6.  Client perception as reflected in annual surveys.   TBD                          +10%                   + 10%                 + 10%                  + 10%                 + 10%
Cost-effectiveness
1.  Administrative costs per unit of each major output.  TBD                         -10%                  -10%                   -10%                  -10%                   -10%
2.  User fees collecd based on improved productivity.    TSD                         +10%                   +10%                  +10%                   +10%                  +10%



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 3 - Perfonane ndicats for Tageted Executive Agencies and Ministries                                        1t
Administrator General
Ministry of National Security and Justice
%  Cbangetclivo   -  ;has~eR         .    S C-tngeatie - -a ... ....  .........c..... -.- .  C
. a-:.; , .........................................  ---. . ....................   I. . .......... ....
,,', .'.',,'.                                 yr..... t., .Paeia .,,.,  t,,,,  ,rviu    r ,
Service Ouantitv
I .  Number of inquiries.                             TBD                         +5%                   +20%                  +20%                 +10%                  +5%
2.  Number of Lett  of Administration (LA).           TBD                          +5%                  +-20%                 +20%                  +10%                  +5%
3.  Number of estates administered.                   20,000                      +5%                   +5%                   +5%                  +5%                   +5%
4.  Number of retal properties nanaged.               490                         0%                    +0%                   +0%                  +0%                    +0%
5.  Number of estates closed.                         80                          +10%                  +50%                  +30%                 +10%                  +5%
Service Ouality
1.  Avenge tunround tine between Instructiona to      6 mnonths                    -10%                 -10%                  -10%                  -10%                 -10%
Altorney and LA.
2.  Averge turnaround time from  LA to final payment
for beneficiaries who wert of age and legally
competent at time of LA.                         7 years                      -15%                  -75%                 -60%                  -50%                  -20%
3. Avenge account statement turnaround time following
reques from beeficiary.                          2 years                      -10%                  -10%                 -10%                  -10%                  -10%
4. Avenge net expenses on real estate rental properties.
5.  Average rate of return on esate assets relative to  TBD
[specific market iDdexi:
a. Trus Fund Inveamenu                           a. 25.1% less index          +10%                  + 10%                 + 10%                +10%                  +10%
b. TrustFundfBankAccounts                        b. 15% lessindex             +10%                  +10%                  +10%                 +10%                  +10%
6.  Backlog of accounts needing Final Statemnents.    200                          -60%                 -100%                 0%                    -0%                   -0%
7.  Client perception as reflected in annul surveys.  TBD                         + 10%                 + 10%                 +10%                 + 10%                 + 10%
Cost-effectiveness
1.  Cost per preliminary inquiry.                     TBD                         -10%                  -10%                 -10%                  -10%                  -10%
2.  Cost per LA.                                      TBD                         -10%                  -10%                 -10%                  -10%                  -10%
3.  Cost per estate administered.                     TBD                         -10%                  -10%                 -10%                  -10%                  -10%
4.  Cost per estate closed.                           TBD                         -10%                  -10%                 -10%                  -10%                  -10%
a,
S



Jamaica Public Sedor Modenization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 3 - Perfornince Indicatos for Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministies                                      12
Management Institute for National Development (MIND)
Office of the Prime Minister
Peorm n            ie Iimension                       BIimne (1994-95)  Ye  1                           Year 2               Year 3                Year 4                Year 5
Absolute Target      Absolute Targdt/      AbsOlUte Target?     Absolute Target        Abso-lut Target
.: . :. : :.  Change Relative    . .Change Relative  % Changc Relative  % Change Relative::   % Chae Rvlative to
:o .reviou~s -er     to ..    a ye.    .       .... .to Previous year  to Previ ous year   t re.ious ycar
Service Ouantity
1.  Total trainee days                                20,000 days                 20,000                22,000               23,000                24,000                25,000
Service Qualit
1.  Weighted average trainee course evaluation.       54%                         57.5%                 60%                  62.5%                 65%                   67.5%
2.  Weighted average evaluation of usefulns of training   54%                     57.5%                 60%                   62.5%                65%                   67.5%
by supervisors of trainees.
Cost-effectiveneas
Cost per trainee-day US$                         27                           -10%                 -10%                  -10%                  -10%                 -10%
T-e trainees and their supervisors will be asked to rate the courses on a scale of I to 6, with the score of I representing 'Poor" and the score of 6 representing 'Excellent". The weighted
average would be computed by the multiplying the percentage of responses in each category with its corresponding numerical score.



Janmica Public Sector Modemization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 3 - Performance Indicators for Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministries                                13
Ministry of Local Government and Works
<=~~~(~-s    ear                                            Yea2                 Yar                  Year                    eaSt      
Service Ouantitv
1.  Vabue ofwork completed on constniction projects.  TBD                        +10%                 +10%                  +10%                 +10%                 +10%
2. Number of miles of roads covered by rehabilitation
and maintenance works.                          T.-D                         +10%                 +10%                 +10%                 +10%                  +10%
3. Number of miles of drains and gullies covered by
maintenance worka                               TBD                          +I0%                 +10%                 +10%                 +10%                  +10%
4.  Number of bridgesacovered by maintenance wors.   TBD                         +10%                  +10%                 +10%                 +10%                  +10%
5.  Icese  in the quantum of community amenity
services.                                       TBD                         +10X                  +10%                 +10%                 +10%                  +10%
6.  Incese in the quantum of social security and
cornunity and welfare services relating to the poor
and the elderly.
TBD                         +10%                 +10%                 +10%                  +10%                 +I0%
1.   snproveie  in quliy, tinmeliness and effectiveness
otfpoliciefornmlatedand inplemesstd.            TBD                          +10%                 +10%                 +10X                 +10%                  +10%
2. Jmprovemcnst in capability to monitor policy
implesnessation.                                TBD                         +10%                  +10%                 +10%                 +10%                  +10%
3. Number of projects completed on time anmd within
budget.                                         TED                          +10%                 +10%                 +10%                 +10X                  +10%
4.  Improvesnest in corprte functions, especially,
planning, budgeting, accounting, internal audit and
personnel managesnent.                          TED                         +10%                  +10%                 +10%                 +10%                  +10%
5. Improvesmest in the technical quality and durability
of construction and mainteance works executed by
thceministry.                                   TED                          +10%                 +10%                 +10%                 +10%                  +10%
6. Increase in the quality of community amenity
services as indicated bycdient surveys.         TED                         +10%                  +10%                 +10%                 +10%                  +10%
7. Increase in the quality of social security and
commnunity and wefar servicea rclating to thepoor    TBD                     +10%                 +10%                 +10%                 +10X                  +10%
and the elderly as indicated by client surveys.
8.  Improvemeat in thceffedtivenesa of superviaion of  TBD                       +10%                 +10%                  +10%                 +10%                 +10%
Friendly Societies and Cooperatives
..   ................. .....   .. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -
................... . ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 3 - Performance Indicators for Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministnes                                         14
Performanc Dlimensioni                                   Baseline (1994-95)  Year I                         Year 2                Year 3                 Year 4                 Year 5
Abdlute TargetI       Absaolute Target/     Absolute TargW         Absolute Target!       Abslte TUrget
Cble Relative       % Change Relative     % Change Relative      % Chbnge Rdative      % Char4ge Rdwtve tO
to Previwo  yar       to Previous yeat      to PreVious year       t Pevsous year         Previous year
Cost-effectiveness
1.  Administrative costs per unit of each nmajor output.  TBD.                       -10%                   -10%                  -10%                   -10%                  -10%
2.  Reduction in cost over-runs of mnajor construction
and mnaintenance projects.                         TBD.                          -10%                  -10%                  -10%                   -10%                  -10%
;2



Jamaica Public Sector Modernization Project: SAR: 7/96: Annex 3 - Performance Indicators for Targeted Executive Agencies and Ministries                               15
Ministry of Environment and Housing
19      -    .        .... ......../.slt WU gk      ~    sitTtet            bslt.~                boueTgS
, } o - " - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 Pfv0i iea -o Prviu -ea -~                                                  Prviu -ea          ts P-:in yea :s m              ear.  i
Service Ouantity
1.  Value of housing projects completed.             TBD                         + 10%                + 10%                 + 10% +910%                               + 10%
Service Quality
1. hnprovement in qualily. timeliness and effectiveness
of policdes formulated and implemented.         TBD                          + 10%                + 10%                + 10%                + 10%                 + 10%
2. Improvement in capability to monitor policy
implementation.                                 TBD                          + 10%                + 10%                + 10%                 + 10%                + 10%
3. Number of housing projects compleaed on time and
witbin budgdt.                                  TBD                          + 10%                + 10%                + 10%                 + 10%                + 10%
4. Improvemnent in corporate functions, especially.
planning, budgeting, accounting, internal audit and
personnd management.                            TBD                          + 10%                + 10%                + 10%                + 10%                 + 10%
5. Improvement in the effectiveness of conaervation of
natural reaoucea and environmental protection
measures.                                       TEID                         +10%                 +10%                 +10%                  +10%                 +10%
6.  lmprovement in land use and management.          TBD                         + 10%                + 10%                 + 10%                + 10%                 + 10%
Coat-effectivenaeu
1.  Adniniatrativ costs.per unit of.each major output.   TBD.                    -10%                 -10%                 -10%                  -10%                 -10%
2.  Reductionincostover-runsofmajorcapitalproject.   TBD.                        -10                  -10%                 -10%                  -10%                 -10%



73
Annex 4
Indicative List of Facilities and Services
Identified for Privatization/Contracting Out
No.      iityfSv        :-- L- i   io    ~ -    u ix4   ic y on  -           : -         ::::::
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.:.. ...  .  ',- ,-  ":'. " -'.''-" "..,, ''.'"-'''''''..:
1.    Animal Pounds            Islandwide     Holding of Stray Animals           No
2.    Armory Houses            Port Royal      Tourist Attraction - monument     No
3.    Bamboo Gardens           St. Ann        Tourist Attraction                 No
4.    Barracks Building        Spanish Town   Tourist Attraction - monument      No
5.    Bath Botanical Gardens    St. Thomas    Tourist Attraction                 No
6.    Castleton Gardens        St. Andrew     Tourist Attraction                 No
7.    Cemeteries              Islandwide       Burial                            No
8.    Old Court House          Spanish Town   Tourist Attraction - monument      No
9.    Fern Gully               St. Ann        Tourist Attraction                 No
10.   Food Stamp Program      Islandwide      Welfare Service for the Destitute  No
11.   Food Storage Infestation   Airports     Quarantine of Food Exports         Yes
12.   Garrison Building        Spanish Town   Tourist Attraction - monument      No
13.   Holland Bamboo           St. Elizabeth    Tourist Attraction               No
14.   Hope Garden and Zoo      St. Andrew     Recreational Facility              No
15.   Long Lane Gardens        St. Andrew     Tourist Attraction                 No
16.   M. P. Children's Home   St. Andrew      Children Welfare Service           No
17.   Minard Great House       St. Ann        Tourist Attraction - monument      No
18.   National Parks           Islandwide     Recreational and Cultural Facility  No
19.   National Stadium         St. Andrew     Sports and Cultural Facility       No
20.   Old Kings House          Spanish Town   Tourist Attraction - monument      No
21.   Prison Medical Services  Islandwide      Prison Health Service             No
22.   Public Sanitary          Islandwide      Sanitation                        No
Convenience
23.   Road Traffic Safety      Islandwide      Parking Meters, traffic signals,  No
Management                             towing etc..
24.   Seville Property         St. Catherine    Historical Monument              No
25.   Specialized Professional   Office of the    Training and Employee Welfare  No
Services in HRD         Prime Minister
26.   Statutory Legal Aid      Islandwide      Legal Services                    No
System                 I      _       I     _I_I



PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT                                                                                       ANNEX 5
Modernization of Public_Entities_(EAs):_PIOJ                                                                                          _____
Activ-it                                                                                            LC         FC         Total    Total    ILG             FG         Total  CW   Grand
Con.       Trg.                             Goods           Total
oMP, FP, FD                                                                                         54.0       146.0      200.0
nplemm  moderBlatoss pln_
ake legal an administrative changes                                                                         1.4        3.7        3.0
l      oment  hder internai conirols                                                                     5.4        14.6       20.0
leanest new organizational structure                                                                      6.8       18.3       25.0
Refwbish Offices                                                                                            0.0        0.0        0.0
tch slls of current staff with required skills                                                             1.4        3.7        5.0
et       redundant staff                                                                                    1.4        3.7        5.0
R ilnew staff with required ssills                                                                        1.4        3.7        5.0
Mve staff to new org. units And funltions                                                                  0.0        0.0         0.0_
st bfisb customer service units                                                                             1.4        3.7        5.0               ___
I. remuneration, incentive system, career paths                                                           1.4        3.7        5.0
klesent new perfornance evaluation system                                                                 1.4        3.7        5.0
e changes in PMIS                                                                                         1.4        3.7        5.0
Mchanes in HRMIS                                                                                        1.4        3.7        5.0
Dsin And develop other MIS                                                                                 2.7        7.3       10.0
in and develop OIS                                                                                       5.4       14.6       20.0
Pcure Hardware and off-the-shelf Software                                                                  0.0        0.0        0.0                             100.0    100.0
arep  marnuals                                                                                           1.4        3.7        5.0                                                      _
lement re-engineered business procsses                                                                    6.8       18.3       25.0
blic Relations Campaign
staff                                                                                                                                  500.0
ute Physical Resources
er goods                                                                                                                                                        500.0   500.0 _
ivil Work                                                                                                                                                                         90.0i
Total                                                                                                      94.5      255.5      350.0      500.0                 600.0   600.0  90.0  1540.0
Legend:
IC: Local Consultant; FC: Foreign Consultant;LG: Local Goods; FG: Foreign Goods; CW: Civil Works.
MP: Modernization Plan; FP Financg Plan; FD: Framework DocumenL



PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT                                                                          ANNEX 5
Mnof Public Entities (EAs) Jamaica Customs Departnent
LC     FC       Total    Total    LG         FG        Total  CW        Grand
Con.    Tr _.                           Goods           Total
hpoe M   FP, IFD                                                                   81.0   219.0    300.0
elepzd aftinWhivifued                                                                14.9    40.2       55.0
Sp_ Oda                                                                              5.4    14.6       20.0
-w cgg_Iam.1 iiune                                                                    2 7.0 73.0    100.0
R ____    _______                50.0              50.0
*fth of  mm ff wilh required aiDs                                                         2.7     7.3      10.0 _
rw     doff                                                                             2.7     7.3      10.0 
Rn  mff wib   -   akdil                                                                  2.7     7.3       10.0 _
aveaff mo am   . u         b ldfunm                                                          0.0      0.0       0.0
_        "mie us                                                                        2.7     7.3      10.0                                          _
rin.r     . imuive system c.      pies                                                    5.4    14.6       20.0                                         _     .-
_  new ped_e evahatlo sysm                                                                  5.4    14.6       20.0
dages m P)AS                                                                             13.5    36.5       50.0 __.-
ediaes in HRMIS                                                                          13.5    36.5       50.0                                 _             .-
tip    d e&ew odha MIS                                                                  54.0   146.0    200.0                                                 .-
and &vbp OIS
Butdgd _uhr OQY oompdwffAdm _ pm"                                                         172.8   467.2    640.0                          2440.0  2440.0
OdYr                                                                                       189.0   511.0    700.0
Hne  leand dff4hhelf S&ftwm                                                              0.0     0.0       0.0
nups m_-17.6    47.5                                                                                      65.0
Imp  w4w ered b1W_m pieces=                                                          54.0   146.0    200.0
P_b_e_ Rel___ Cs_p_                                           __                              20.0   _          20.0                                          _
Ba4ed in 0I oaB      ad   prjec                                                                                         26.0                    _
O6wr                                                                                                                  204.0
Adre FhdW   mhout
goos 
lI Works                                                                                                                                                    2100.0
Total                                                                                       684.2  1795.8   240.01  230.0          50.0   2440.0 2490.0  2100.0 7300.0
Lqgd:
LC: Low C q_ PC: FcP C           zic LO: Loca Ooods; PO: Fmgn Goode; CW: Cvi Wcds.
B:Madm~ik Pim FP: P            ; FD: Pt_wmk DoaL



PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT                                                                              ANNEX 5
lodernization of Public Entities (EAs): Office of Titles
Actvity                                                                                             LC      FC      Total Total LG  FG             Total   CW         Grand
Con.  Trg.                    Goods              Total
prs MP, FP, D                                                                                         54.0   146.0  200.0
M     legal and administrative changes                                                                5.4    14.6   20.0
plesest otber idernal cor rols                                                                        1.4     3.7     5.01
lamest nvw organzational structure                                                                   13.5   36.5   50.01
eftirbish Offices                                                                                        0.0     0.0     0.0
a ill slils of Cwrrta st aff with required skills                                                       1.4    3.7      5.0
Retremt redundait staff                                                                                  1.4     3.7     5.0 _
ecruit new staff with required skills                                                                    14      3.7     5.0
Move staff to new org. units and functions                                                          0.0     0.0     0.0
Eslahlish customfr servicr units                                                                  1.4     3.7     5.0
hnpl. rammneration, incentive systan, career palhs                                                   1.4     3.7     5.0
Enplemcu nLw perfornance evatuation systemn                                                     1.4     3.7     5.0
M balccchnges in FMIS                                                                               2.7      7.3    10.0
M*e clwnges in HRMIS                                                                                2.7      7.3    10.0
esgn and develop other MIS                                                                              2.7     7.3    10.0
DcsiKD anbd develop OIS                                                                                13.5   36.5   50.0
P cHardwrc snd off-the-sbelf Softwae                                                               0.0     0.0     0.0                 300.0    300.0
Prepare rnls                                                                                       4.1    11.0    15.0          =
lmest  - neered business processes                                                                   27.0    73.0  100.0
lic Reltions Campaign                                                                                 30.0            30.0
StaffS                                                                                            _        _              250.0
Play"6 Resouce
D*er goods                                                                                                                 _            1250.0   1250.0
Works                                                                                                                                                       1000.0
Total                                                                                                 165.0  365.0  530.0  250.0  0.0  1550.0  1550.0  1000.0  3330.0
Legend,
LC: Local Consultant; FC: Foreign Consultant; LG: Local Goods; FG: Foreign Goods; CW: Civil Works.
MP: Modernization Plan; FP: Financing Plan; FD: Framework Document.



PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT                                                                          ANNEX 5
Modernization of Public Entities (EAs): Town Planning Department
Activity                                                                                            LC      FC  -Total  Tota LG  FG            Total C    Gran
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _  Con.  Trg.  G;oods    Total
P MP, F?, ED                                                                                   54.0  146.0  200.0
Imlnt m     eod_aiati  pian
ake legal and administrative changes                                                                  2.7    7.3    10.0  =    = _=_=
pleent other internal controls                                                                      1.4    3.7    5.0
plement new organizational structure                                                                 13.5   36.5   50.0
efurbish Offtce                                                                                       0.0    0.0      0.0
sktch  ils of current staff with required skills                                                     1.4    3.7    5.0
etrench redundant staff                                                                                1.4    3.7     5.0
ecmit new staff with required skills                                                                   1.4    3.7    5.0    _
ove staff to new org. units and functions                                                             0.0    0.0    0.0
blish cusomer service units                                                                         1.4    3.7    5.0
p. remuneration, incentive system, career paths                                                      2.7    7.3   10.0
mplerein new perfonnance evaluation system                                                            1.4    3.7    5.0 _
e changes in FMIS                                                                                   2.7    7.3   10.0                     _
ake changes in HRMIS                                                                                  2.7    7.3   10.0
D   and develop other MIS                                                                          5.4   14.6   20.0                        _
gn and develop OIS                                                                                 13.5   36.5   50.0
re Hardware and off-the-shelf Softwar                                                              0.0    0.0    0.0                200.0  200.0
are  manuals                                                                                        2.7    7.3   10.0
mplement re-engineered business processes                                                           27.0   73.0  100.0                               _
blic Relations Campaign
staff                                                                                                                     50.0                          _
Acquire Physicl Resources                                                                                                                100.0  100.0
Civil Works                                                                                                                                             0.0
Total                                                                                               135.0 365.0  500.0  50.0 0.0  300.0 300.0 0.0  850.0
Legend:
LC: Local Consultant; FC: Foreign Consultant; LG: Local Goods; FG: Foreign Goods; CW: Civil Works.
MP: Modernization Plan; FP: Financing Plan; FD: Framework Document.



PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT                                                                          ANNEX 5
Modernization of Public Entities (EAs): Surveys Department
Activity                                                                                             LC      FC      Total Total LG  FG           Total C    Grand
Con.  Trg.                  Goods        Total
Prepam MP, FT, Fl)                                                                                      54.0  146.0  200.0            =                      =      -
Implement modenization plan
Make legal and administrative changes                                                                    2.7    7.3   10.0                   _
mplement other internal controls                                                                          1.4    3.7    5.0
plement new organizational structure                                                                  13.5   36.5   50.0                          _
Rfurbish Offices                                                                                        0.0    0.0    0.0
atch skills of current staff with required skills                                                       1.4    3.7    5.0
etrench redundant staff                                                                                 1.4    3.7    5.0
ecruit new staff with requird skills                                                                    1.4    3.7    5.0                          _
ove staff to new org. units and functions                                                              0.0    0.0    0.0
blish customer service units                                                                          1.4    3.7    5.0
pl. remuneration, incentive system, career paths                                                       1.4    3.7    5.0 _
mplement new performance evaluation system                                                             1.4    3.7    5.0                   _
ake changes in FMIS                                                                                     2.7    7.3   10.0                   _
e changes in HRMIS                                                                                   2.7    7.3   10.0 .                 _             _
*gn and develop other MIS                                                                             2.7    7.3   10.0 _
ign and develop OIS                                                                                  13.5   36.5   50.0                               1
re Hardware and off-the-shelf Software                                                              0.0    0.0    0.0                  500.0  500.0
Prepare manuals                                                                                          4.1    11.0   15.0 .
Implement re-engineered business processes                                                              27.0   73.0  100.0 ___                             _
Public Relations Campaign                                                                               10.0            10.0
T        staff                                                                                                                 100.0
Aquire Physical Resources                                                                                    __                             100.0  100.0
Civil Works                                                                                                                                                0.0
Total                                                                                                 142.3  357.7  500.0  100.0 0.0  600.0  600.0 0.0  1200.0
Legend:
LC: Local Consultant; FC: Foreign Consultant; LG: Local Goods; FG: Foreign Goods; CW: Civil Works.
MP: Modernization Plan; FP: Financing Plan; ED: Framework Document.
eo



PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT                                                                          ANNEX 5
Modernization of Public Entities (EAs): Jamaica Information Service
Activity                                                                                      LC      FC      Total  Total  LG         FG      Total  CW       GrLand
Con.  Trg.                      Goods           Total
Prepare MP, FP, FD                                                                                 54.0  146.0  200.0      _l
Implement modenization paln
Make legal and administrative changes                                                               2.7     7.3   10.0
In-plement other internal controls                                                                  2.7     7.3    10.0
plement new organizational structure                                                             13.5   36.5   50.0 _                              _
efurbish Offices                                                                                   0.0     0.0    0.0            100.0           100.0
atch skills of current staff with required skills                                                  1.4     3.7    5.0 _
etrench redundant staff                                                                            1.4    3.7      5.0
ecruit new staff with required skills                                                              1.4     3.7    5.0
ove staff to new org. units and functions                                                         0.0      0.0    0.0
blish customer service units                                                                     2.7     7.3   10.0
pl. remuneration, incentive system, career paths                                                  5.4   14.6   20.0
mplement new performance evaluation system                                                        1.4     3.7    5.0                                  _
o changes in FiMS                                                                               2.7     7.3   10.0
ile changes in HRMIS                                                                              2.7     7.3   10.0
gn and develop other MIS                                                                        5.4    14.6   20.0
ign and develop OIS                                                                             10.8   29.2   40.0
re Hardware and off-the-shelf Software                                                         0.0     0.0    0.0                    200.0  200.0
are manuals                                                                                     2.7     7.3   10.0
nplement re-engineered business processes                                                        27.0   73.0  100.0
blic Relations Campaign                                                                          40.0            40.0
rain staff                                                                                                               230.0
Aquire Physical Resourcs                                                                                           0.0
Transportation                                                                                                                             0.0    0.0
goods                                                                                                                                 20.0   20.0
ivWorks                                                                                                                                                  150.0
ToWl                                                                                             177.7  372.3  550.0  230.0  100.0  220.0  320.0  150.0  1250.0
Legend:
LC: Local Consultant; FC: Foreign Consultant; Local Goods; FG: Foreign Goods; CW: Civil Works.
MP: Modernization Plan; FP: Financing Plan; FD: Framework Document.



PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT                                                                            ANNEX 5
Modernization of Public Entities (EAs): JAMIPRESS                                                                                                                    _
Activity                                                                                             LC    FC       Total  Total  LG   FG          Total  CW  Grand
Con.  Trg.                     Goods        Total
Prepare__MP, FP, FD                                                                                   27.0    73.0   100.0
Iplnemfft moderins tion plan__                                                                                                                                    _
Mke legal and adrninistrative changes                                                                 1L4      3.7     5.0__
lmpement ofthrinternal controls                                                                      1L4      3.7     5.0__                                      _
hplement_new organizational structure                                                                 6.8    18.3   25.0
efurbish Offices                                                                                       0.0     0.0     0.0           60.0            60.0
atcb skills of current staff with required skills                                                     0.5     L 5     2.0
Rtrench redundant staff                                                                                0.5     LS      2.0
ecruit new staff with required skills                                                                  0.5     i.5     2.0
ove staff to new org. units and functions                                                             0.0     0.0     0.0
blish customer service units                                                                        0.5      1.5     2.0
pl. remuneration, incentive system, career paths                                                      0.5     1.5     2.0
uplement new performance evaluation system                                                            1.4     3.7     5.0
ake changes in FMIS                                                                                   1.4     3.7      5.0
ake changes in HRMIS                                                                                  1.4     3.7      5.0 __
ign and develop other MIS                                                                            2.7     7.3    10.0
ign and develop OIS                                                                                  5.4    14.6   20.0
Procure Hardware and off-the-shelf Software                                                             0.0     0.0     0.0   _              160.0   160.0 _
Prepare manuals                                                                                         2.7     7.3    10.0                               _     _
Implement re-engineered business processes                                                              8.1    21.9    30.0                      _____
Public Relations Campaign                                                                               0.0     0.0     0.0
Traim staff                                                                                                                   120.0                ___
Acqure Physical Resources
Transportation                                                                                                                               100.0   100.0
Convert BIW lab to color                                                                                                                      40.0    40.0
ameras and access rigs                                                                                                                       40.0    40.0
ergoods                                                                                                                                   200.0  200.0
lvii Works                                                                                                                                                 0.0
otal                                                                                                 62.1  167.9  230.0  120.0  60.0  540.0  600.0  0.0  950.0
Legend:
LC: Local Consultant; FC: Foreign Consultant;LG: Local Goods; FG: Foreign Goods; CW: Civil Works.
MP: Modernization Plan; FP: Financing Plan; FD: Framework Document.
00
0



PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT                                                                        ANNEX 5
Modemnization of Public Entities (EAs): Registrar General's Department
Acivty                                                                                           LC      FC     Total Total  LG         FG      Total CW  Grand
Con.  Tr                       Goods       Total
MIP, FP  FD                                                                                 54.0  146.0  200.0
~Irnt modeonization plan                                                                         _
aelegal and administrative changes                                                                 2.7    7.3   10.0
Iiplement other internal controls                                                                 1.4    3.7    5.0
plement new organizational stucture                                                               13.5   36.5   50.0
etahrbiab Offices                                                                                   0.0    0.0    0.0            140.0          140.0
atch aills of carrent staff with required skills                                                   1.4    3.7    5.0
Retrenh redundant staff                                                                             1.4    3.7    5.0
ecrit new staffwith required skills                                                                 1.4    3.7    5.0
ove staff to new org. units and functions                                                          0.0    0.0    0.0
bliab customer serv:ice units                                                                     1.4    3.7    5.0                                  =
I. reneration, incentive system, career paths                                                     2.7    7.3   10.0
I   newt new performance evaluation system                                                        2.7    7.3   10.0
e chuages in FMIS                                                                                2.7    7.3   10.0
changes in HRMIS                                                                                2.7    7.3   10.0
D   and develop other MIS                                                                        8.1   21.9   30.0
D   and develop OIS                                                                             13.5   36.5   50.0                     =             =
Hardware and off-the-shelf Software                                                           0.0    0.0    0.0                    700.0  700.0
Prepare muals                                                                                        5.4   14.6   20.0
Implement re-engineered business processes                                                          27.0   73.0  100.0
Public Relations Campaign                                                                           50.0           50.0 
Train gtaff                                                                                                            150.0
Acquire Physical Resources
Other goods                                                                                                                                50.0   50.0
Ciil Works                                                                                                                                              0.0
Total                                                                                             191.8  383.3  575.0  150.0  140.0  750.0  890.0  0.0  1615.0
Leged:
LC: Local Consultant; FC: Foreign Consultant;LG: Local Goods; FG: Foreign Goods; CW: Civil Works.
MP: Modernization Plan; FP: Financing Plan; FD: Framework Document.



PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT                                                                                       ANNEX 5
Modernization of Public Entities (EAs): Registrar of Companie
LC         FC         Total  Total  LG                 FG         Total CW  Grand
Con.       T                                Goods          Total
ArePare 1', FIP, FID_                                                                               54.0      146.0      200.0
Imltetmodernization plon
ake legal and administrative changes                                                                       4.1       11.0       15.0_
lement other internal controls                                                                           1 6        4.4        6.0
lenient new organizational structure                                                                    16.2       43.8       60.0                                                     _
Refutish Offices                                                                                           0.0        0.0        0.0                 200.0               200.0 __
itch skills of current staff with required skills                                                          0.8        2.2        3.0                                     _
Retrencb redundant staff                                                                                    0.8        2.2        3.0
necrt new staff with requited skills                                                                      0.8         2.2        3.0                                     _
ove staff to new org. units and functions                                                                  0.0        0.0        0.0
staWsh customer service units                                                                              0.8        2.2        3.0                                     _       _
I. remuneration, incentrive system, career paths                                                         1.6        4.4        6.0
lenent new performance evaluation system                                                                 1.6        4.4        6.0
change in FMIS                                                                                             4.1       11.0       15.0_
chnges in HMIS                                                                                              4.1       11.0       15.0
i4 and devekop othr MIS                                                                                 8. 1      21.9       30.0
ign and develop OIS                                                                                     12.2       32.9       45.0
Hocue Hardware and off-the-shelf Software                                                                  0.0        0.0        0.0                            200.0   200.0
are manals                                                                                               4.1       11.0       15.0                            _                =
Ileanet re-ergmeered business processes                                                                 20.3       54.8       75.0 _ ____
blic Relatios Campaign
am staff                                                                                                                                 225.0
sire Physical Resources
r goods                                                                                                                                                       50.0    50. 0
Wiri   Worl_                                                                                                                                                                     50.0
135.0     365.0       500.0      225.0     200.0       250.0   450.0  50.0  1225.0
Legend:
LC; 1oceConsuhan; PC: Poreign Cotlsuhallt; LG: 1oo Goods; FG: ForeignGoods; CW: Civil Works.
IMP: Modemaization PlaD; FP: Financing Phln, FD: Framework Document
oc



PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT                                                                            ANNEX 5
Modmnization of Public Entities (EAs): Administrator General
LC  FC   Total Tota LG  FG   Total CW Grand
Con.  Trg.                    Goods        Total
MP, FP, PD                                                                                   27.0    73.0   100.0   _
pi pt umodernization pla.
e legal and administrative changes                                                                5.4    14.6    20.0_
Iiplement other internal controls                                                                  1.4     3.7     5.0
tement new organizational strucure                                                               13.5    36.5    50.0
Retrbish Offices                                                                                    0.0     0.0      0.0         15.0             15.0
atch skills of crrmnt staff with required skills                                                    1.4     3.7     5.0
RdI~3)I redundant staff                                                                             1.4     3.7      5.0_
new gaff with required skills                                                                  1.4     3.7     5.0
ove staff to ncw org. units and functions                                                           0.0     0.0     0.0
Ebsh cuaomer service units                                                                        1.4     3.7     5.0
b   m. remneration, incentive system, career paths                                                1.4     3.7      5.0                  __
new performance evaluation system                                                           1.4     3.7     5.0
changes in FMIS                                                                                2.7     7.3    10.0
chdnges in ERMIS                                                                                2.7     7.3    10.0
c inu  develop other MIS                                                                       2.7     7.3    10.0
and develop OLS                                                                                5.4    14.6    20.0
Hardwae and off4he-shelf Software                                                             0.0     0.0      0.0                 50.0    50.0
namnla                                                                                        2.7      7.3    10.0
blenen r g       d business processes                                                             9.5    25.6    35.0
blic Relations Campaign
*staff                                                                                                                  65.0
eqliePhydRcaloRes_7
rransportation                                                                                                           7. 35.0   375.0
er goods                                                                                                                               3505_  _   .0
ivil Works                                                                                                                    _        _                0.0
Total                                                                                              81.0  219.0  300.0  65.0  15.0  160.0  175.0  0.0  540.0
Legend:
LC: Local Consultant; FC: Foreign Consultant; Local Goods; FG: Foreign Goods; CW: Civil Works.
MP: Modernization Plan; FP: Financing Plan; FD: Framework Document.
00



PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT                                                                           ANNEX 5
Modernization of Public Entities (EAs): MIND
Activiy                                                                                         LC      FC      Total Total LG          FG      Total CW         Grand
Con.  Trg.                     Goods            Total
Pre  W, FP, ID                                                                                    54.0  146.0  200.0                             _
legl and a&ninistrative changes                                                                  2.7    7.3   10.0
Ilanemt ohder iAen.l cotrols                                                                       1.4    3.7    5.0
smenew organizational sture                                                                       13.5   36.5   50.0
Refnbish Offices                                                                                     0.0    0.0    0.0              25.0            25.0
skills of cunent stff With requred skills                                                        1.4    3.7    5.0
retndant staff                                                                                 1.4    3.7    5.0
ecnnt now staff with reqwred suills                                                                   1.4    3.7    5.0
Megstff to now org. oaks and nuons                                                                   0.0    0.0    0.0
a aeandbi c   sftvihe units                                                                     1.4    3.7    5.0
remuneraton, incemive system, cm"e paths                                                            1.41   3.7      5.0
bwlme parformae evahiation systemn                                                                1.41   3.7,   5.0
echanges in FMIS                                                                                   2.7    7.3   10.0
Chgs in HRtfS                                                                                    2.7    7.3   10.0
r   and devrsip otahr MIS                                                                            2.7    7.3   10.0
Wand deveop OIS                                                                                  13.5   36.5   50.0
aordware an offlshf Sof1wa5 0.0    0.0    0.0                                                                                              100.0  100.0
PeaW nrals                                                                                         6.81  18.3   25.0
rmla ecgnt    ere business processes                                                             27.0   73.0  100.0
Pu clc RCons Cau aign                      L
M: ff M                                                                                                                     100.0
Pcqyskal Resources
irconditioners, teaching aids, copier etc.                                                                                              1200.0   200.01
Casroom furniture cet.                                                                                                    _         100          100.01
workl    s                                                                                                                                                3360.0
Toud                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~135.0  365.0 L500.0  10O0.0  125.0  300.0  425.0  3360.0  4385 .0
LC: Local Consultant; FC: Foreign Consultant;LG: Local Goods; FG: Foreign Goods; CW: Civil Works.
IMP: Modemization Plan; FP: Financing Plan; FD: Framework Document.



PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT                                                                   ANNEX 5
Modernization of Public Entities (EAs): JAMIPRO and Construction Division, MLGW
Activity                                                                                      LC     FC   Total Total LG   FG    Total  CW  Grand
Con.  Trg.   =        =   Goods         Total
Preparation and lmplementation of MP, FP and FD                                                   400   600  1,000   200   200   600       800   0   2,000
Total                                                                                        |  4001 6001 1,000| 2001 2001 6001   8001  01 2,w0
Legend:
LC: Local Consultant; FC: Foreign Consultant: LC: Local Goods; FG: Foreign Goods; CW: Civil Works.
MP: Modernization Plan; FP: Fnancing Plan; FD: Frmework Doaument.
LA



PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT                                                                                    ANNEX 5
Modernization of Public Entities (Ministries): Ministry of Local Government and Works
Axtivity                                                                                             LC       FC   Total Total LG    FG    Total  C'WGrand
-      Con._ T_g                   Goods I    Total
Prepabre MP, FP, FD                                                                                  54  146    200     __
[rplement modcrntzation plan
ike legal and administrative changes                                                                     14   37      50               _
plement other internal controls                                                                         1    4       5
lernent new organizational structure                                                                   14   37      50
rove Working Enviroment                                                                                14   37      50
aIds skils of cuffsent staff with required skills                                                         3    7      10
Retrend redundant staff                                                                                   3    7       10 _
ecruil new staff with required skills                                                                     3    7       10
ave staff to new org. units and funtions                                                                  0    0       0
I. remuneration, incentive system, career paths                                                         3    7      10
lanem new perfomance evaluaton system                                                                   3    7      10
be dteges in FMIS                                                                                      3    7      10       I
de uuagea in HRMIS                                                                                      3    7      10
*n and develop oder MIS                                                                                14   37      50
an and develop OIS                                                                                     14   37      50
P Hardware and off-tbe-uself Software                                                               0    O       O                   80       80
mamals                                                                                             14   37      50
lrne    agincred buiness proceaes                                                                      27   73    100
Spede C_oa.
way Plg. Erg. (Rate US$2,200/wk)                                                                     165          165
Ecanonist (Rate USS2,200/wk)                                                                     165          165
* Cons. (Rate USS2,200/wk)                                                                             70           70
lic Relations CanIpag Rate: (USS2000/mooth)                                                            25           25    _
staff                                                                                                                   100
idre Physical Resou                                                                                                                    _
Acomts 5nd Audit                                                                                                                             70       70
PlMd    Unit                                                                                                                                115      115
Teinical Services                                                                                                                          1140    1140
rrA                                                                                                            _23                                  230
Clvi Works                                                                                                                                                  0
Total                                                                                                   607  493  1100   100          0  1635    1635    O   2835
Legend:
LC: Laca Consultant; PC: Poeign Consuha;LC: Local Goods; FG: Foreign Goods; CW: Civil Works.
MP: ModernatoD  Plan, FP: FiPmncitg Plan; FD: Framework Documen.
so
0%



PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT                                                                                     ANNEX 5
Modernization of Public Entities (Ninistries): Minist    of E;nvironment and Housing
Activity                                                                                             LC         FC         Total    Total    LG             FG         Total  CW   Grand
Con.      T                                Goods          Total
pare MP, FP, FD                                                                                           54        146        200
plement modernization plan
ike legal and administrative chures                                                                        81        219        300
lement other isuemal controls                                                                              1         4          5
lmesnet new ofgit7zatsonAl sctssure                                                                        5         15         20
rove Working Envirmnent                                                                                    0          0          0                  100                 100
a     gds skils of currmi staff wids requied skills                                                          1         4          5
etrench redundant staff                                                                                      I          4          5
ecrut new staff with required skills                                                                         1          4          5
ove staff to new ot. units and functiona                                                                     0         0          0
I. remuneration, incensive system, career paths                                                            1          4          5
lhmnent new perfonnance evahastion system                                                                  1          4          5
Mechanges in FMIS                                                                                          1         4          5
e chazges in HRMIS                                                                                         1         4          5
ign and develop other MIS                                                                                 14         37         50
Dgn and develp 018                                                                                        14         37         50
ocure Hardware and off-the-shelf Software                                                                   0          0          0                               50      50
Prqrre mam                                                                                            14         37         50
'   re-engmneered husubw proceual                                                                  27         73        100
Codnsd Out selected  s                                                                               78        212        290
Public Resfions Cmpn                                                                                   92        248        340
S    _      _      _      _      _      _      _      __C__apity in En__ronmen M s__                         16        44         60
l___staff                                                                                                                                   100
mcire Physksl Resoue
Dlher goods                                                                                                                                                  200      200 _       =
Civil Works                                                                                                                                                                 5560
Total                                                                                                1     405       1095       1500        100        100       250      350  560   2510
IAgend:
LC: Local Consulhant FC: Foreign Consuhan; LC: Local Goods; FG: Foreign Goods; CW: Civil Works.
MP: ModernizatioD Plan; FP: Financin Plan; FD: Framework DocumenL
00



PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT                                                                       ANNEX 5
Modernization of Public Entities (Ministries): One Additional Ministry To Be Identified
Activity                                                                                        LC      FC     Total  Total  |LG      FG      Total  CW  Grand
Con.   Trg.                   Goods        Total
Preparation and Implementation of MP, FP and FD                                                   200.0  400.0  600.0  100.0  100.0  200.0  300.0  0.0  1000.0
Total                                                                                          | 200.0  400.0  600.01 100.0  100.0  200.0  300.01 0.0  1000.0
Legend:
LC: Local Consultant; FC: Foreign Consultanl; LC: Local Goods; FG: Foreign Goods; CW: Civil Works
x0



PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT                                                                                                           ANNEX 5
*vatization                                                                                                                   3                                                           I        I          _        I __
divity                                                                                                                           LC       FC      Total  Total  LG          FG    Total  L-IC    F-IC    Total   CW  Grin
_______________________________________ __      _Con.  T   .                                   Goods                       IC            Total
PIkt as mao/Cornmercklization
the Wuler Sector
tudy, vakai  of ae,
rsitDagm  cowtitarEy. dtit==
eovrcamau  wesHm, legal few etc.                                                                                                     1,000   4,000   5,0W(                                                                        5,0)0
Yubtlit                                                                                                                              1.000   4,00t   SON    =_==                           =_                   __ ____           S.
11. PrtvW1ain/conirading 0,A
Facifitie/Servics_
rmwicai Service for priatiaiwo/
sgt of 26 ilatifiad fcilities
welvicea                                                                                                                               400      400                                                                        _Ot
edcmic&l Se,wie for a&itkm-]
isabot 10-12) to be idmlit for pravatrii/m
ma rat oil a  in the cois of
im 5ahitzL                                                                                                                        50     200      250                                                        _25
Audits                                                                                                                     25      25       50                                                                         50
ubhtast                                                                                                                               475       tS 14 as 110
It. Itut_tS
Tam Advi o                                                                                                                                 200     200
R*ltc Rda   dot     Masket                                                                                                          75      200     275                                        125        0       125  _        400
Tr x-^  200                                        _      _       200
100      100                                      No
_Matal                                                                                                                                 75      4tt    475      200        9    10       in       125        e    _         0_   __
dAul                                                                                                                              1,550  50256,575            200        0   100       100      125         0      125    0  7000
Legsad:
LC: Local Cauullmnt PC: Foreign ComsaPI LG: Loca Goods; IC: Foreign Goods; IC: Infonemati  Can xaigCW: Civil Wors.
MP Modcrzaion Plui  FP: rmwa*F   Pen HD: Fework Doounms
00



PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT                                                                           ANNEX 5
Government Procurement, Contracting, Internal Control and Audit                                                 _          -
ctivity                                                                                        LC     FC      Total   Total LG    FG         Total CW  Grand
Con.   Tr                      Goods       Total
OF Proc. Polcy Impl. Unit
ng term Procurement Adviser (3 yrs)                                                                     225.0   225.0                                        225.(
hort-Term Consultants                                                                             50.0   50.0    100.0                                         1004
mining                                                                                                                    100.0                               100.(
Equipment                                                                                            __     100.0  100.0                                    100.
SUbtotal                                                                                        50.0  275.0    325.0  100.0           100.0  100.0          525.0
OF Internl Audit Diredorate 
ternal Audit Adviser (2yrs)                                                                        0.0  125.0    125.0                                        125.0
aining                                                                                             0.0                    100.0                               100.(
Equipment                                                                                        0.0                                  100.0  100.0 _0100.0
Subtoal                                                                                          0.0  125.0    125 .0  100 .0         100.0     e 100.0     325.0
rial Procurement Units
onsultants                                                                                       100.0   50.0    150.0                                        150.
mining                                                                                                                    100.0                               100.0
Equipment                                                                                                                              100.0  100.0          100.0
Itotl                                                                                          100.0   50.0    150.0  100.0           100.0  100.0          350.0
C tor General
Cnwltants                                                                                        50.0  150.0    200.0                                        2 200.0
mraining                                                                                        ___100.0                                                      100.(
Equipment                                                                                            __100.0  100.0                                         100 .0
btotal                                                                                           50.0  150.0    200.0  100.0           100.0  100.0o         400.
Auditor General
Consultants                                                                                        50.0  150.0   200.0                                         200.0
Training                                                                                                                   100.0                               100.0
uipment                                                                                                                                100.0  100.0          100.0
1toal                                                                                           50.0  150.0    200.0  100.0           100.0  100.0          400.0
otal                                                                                           250.0  750.0  1000.0  500.0             500.0  500.0  _     2000.0
Legend:
LC: Local Consultant; FC: Foreign Consultant;LG: Local Goods; FG: Foreign Goods; CW: Civil Works.
MP: Modernization Plan; FP: Financing Plan; FD: Framework Document.
0



PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT                                                                        ANNEX 5
IS/HRMIS
Ativity                                                                                       LC       FC       Total   Total LG  FG          Total   CW  Grand
Con.   T                      Goods  __Total
is
Consultars                                                                                        1000. 0    500.0   1500.0                                     1500.
Trainig                                                                                                                      300.0                               300.0
* Relroartive Finaocing                                                                                                                   600.01   600.0         600.
. tDU2000.0 2                                                                                                                                   2000.0        2000.
SubtO4I                                                                                        1000.0    500.0   1500.0  300.0  0.0  2tS600.0  2600.0  0.0   4400.
HRMIS
Corjults                                                                                           200.0    S00.0    80.0                                        800.
raing                                                                                                                       100.0                                100._
_000__0_20_ 2000.0   2t00.0 =        2000.0
200.0    600.0   800.0  100.0  0.0   2000.0  2000.0  0.0  2900.
Total                                                                                          1200.0  1100.0   2300.0   400.0 0.0  4600.0  4600.0 0.0  7300.0
Leed:
LC: Local Consulta; FC: Foreign Consultait;LG: Local Goods; FG: Foreign Goods; CW: Civil Works.
MP: Modenization Plsn; FP: Financing Plan; FD: Franework Doacment.
*0



PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT                                                                                                      ANNEX 5
oject limplementation, Communication Campaign and Development of Stage 11 of PSM
LC       FC     Total   Tota   LG  FG        Total L-IC   F-IC Total C   Grand
Con.   T   . _              Goods                 IC     _    Total
led htplutnentation
Dit Director                                                                                                                             225             225          _22
Peror i?ojed Offcmr                                                                                                                        2C0             200                                                            200
juintiasul RA Coordinitor                                                                                                                        300.0     300                                                           3M0
i  IA Coordintors for:                                                                                                                                    0                                                              0
MM, IT. 1TD h&  SD                                                                                                                       125.0             125          _                                                 125
L 3D. JA)ESS and Customs                                                                                                                  125.0            125                                                            125
I LGW                                                                                                                                   125.0             125                                                           123
t  GD, UCAG MMND                                                                                                                         125.0             125                                                            125
ardorion Canpaign                                                                                                                                                                          125.0  0.0  125.0 _           125
ir rm tion Technology Coordinaor                                                                                                          200.0             200                                                           200
versaned iuProoranee, Couiraating and Auditing Coord.                                                                                    125.0             125                                                            125
mco and Aecouting Coorditor                                                                                                              125.0             125                                                           125
jralratr th, Andotat                                                                                                                  100.0             t00                                                            loo
ik 03)                                                                                                                             375.0             375                                                            375
ludag of PCU staff                                                                                                                                             100.0  __                                                 0lo
*   sag for PCU                                                                                                                                                             100.0  100.0                                 ID_ 100
udil of Project Accue.                                                                                                                    25.0            25.0
1375.0  300.   2175.0  100.,  0.0  100.0  10.0 1t i250.0  125.0  0.0  25.
_ooment of Stage H of PS Modenlzsaok                                                                                                 400.0  100.0      500                                                           50D
51 _sial                                                                                                                                 400.0  100.0   SOO.0    0.0 0.0    0.0    0.0           _   _ _                500.
Totali                                                                                                                                2275.0 400.0  2675.0  100.0  0.0  100.0  100.0  12S.0  0.0 125.0 0.0  3000.0
Legend:
iIcrl ConUILaI: FC: Foreign Coulli; LG: Local Goods: K- Fonign Goods. l diag vehicle: C: lhfomtion Caupai  CW  Civil Wods.
UP Modnizslon Plan FP Fancnn Pn; FD PDFraom'ork DocummL



ANNEX 6
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year I                                       Year 2
ID    Task Narme                                                              Duration    Start    Finish     Qtr 1      Qtr 2      Qtr 3       Qtr 4      Qtr I      Qtr 2       Qtr 3
1    MODERNIZATION  OF PUBLIC  ENTITIES                                          306.4w     2N96  12/31101
2
3    A. FINANCED BY BANK AND GOJ                                                 300.2w     4J1196  12/31           __                   -_.______
4
6        MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT L HOUSING                                       278.2w     9296  12/31101
6            AppointConfirm Ceo and Core Managernent Team                          3 8w      912lY   9)2.
7            Appoint Agency Coordinator (Shared by MEH, RT, TPD, SD)               36w      92Q)96   9)25)96
8            Prepare MP, MTFP, FD                                                 59 6w     92/96  10/22/97                            _
9                 Seect and Engae Consubtants (same for MEH, RT, TPD, SD)          7 8w     92M96  10/23)96
10                Consultants Prepare MP, FP, FD                  s                        10/24)    1WO 97,
11            Obtin GOJ nd Bank approval for FD, MP and MTFP                        8w    1023/97  12f17.97
12            PS and CEO uign FD, MP and MTFP                                       4w    12/18/97   1114/98
13            knpuwnt nwdeniaion plan                                            206w       1/15)98  12)31101
14                Seect and Engage Consultants                                      12w    1/1598    4/8198
16                Implenent modernizaon plan                                     194 ow     4u9   12)31101
16            Civil Works                                                        278.2w     9/2)96  12/31/01
17
19        REGISTRAR OF TITLES                                                    278.2w     9M96  121311 _1
19            AppointUConfirrn Ceo and Core Managerment Team                       36ew     9296   9)25/96
20            Appoint Agency Coordinator (Shared by MEH, RT, TPD, SD)              3 lw     91/96   9125
21            Prepare MP, MTFP, FD                                                59.6w     9/2/96  1022/97 MM
22                Select and Engage Consultants (same for MEH, RT, TPD, SD)        7 6w     9296  10123/96
23                Consultants Prepare MP, FP, FD                                    52w    102496  10122)97
24            Obtain GOJ and Bank approval for FD, MP and MTFP                      8w    10123197  12/17/97
25            PS and CEO sign FD, MP and MTFP                                        4w    12/18/97   1/14/98



(4                                                                                               -io I                                     It a
00~~~~~~~~~~~x1
.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
m 0 E ~                ~ ~ ~ ~ 0 
*1I~ ~~                                                                                                              11                                            is1
1,6                           __



ANNEX6                                                                                             3
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year 1                                        Year 2
ID    Task Name                                                                 Duration    Start    Finish     Qtr 1      Qtr 2       Qtr 3      Qtr 4       Qtr 1      Qtr 2       Qtr 3
51            Implenent modernization plan                                         20S.6w     1/1 59t  12V31/01
52                 Select and Engage Consultants                                     12w    1/15198    4/s898
53                Implement rnodernization plan                                    194 6w     4/9/   12/31101
64
65        JAMAICA INFORMATION SERVICE                                              212.6w  _ W9    9_27/0 _0
56            Appoint/Confirm Ceo and Core Management Team                           3 6w     9/216    9/2596.
57            Appoint Agency Coordinator (Sum  for JAMPRESS and JIS)                 36w       /6    9259
s8            Prepare MP, MTFP, FD                                                  32.6w     9/2/96   4/16197                        -              __
69                 Sebet and Engage ConsuKants (Samne for JAMPRESS and JIS)          7        9w W21    1023196
60                 Consulants Prepare MP, FP, FD                                     25w    10/2419    4/16197
G1            Obtain GOJ and Bank approval for FD, MP and MTFP                        Sw    4/17/97   6/11197
62            PS and CEO sign FD, MP and MTFP                                         4w    6/1297    7/0/97
63             nplment nodernization pln                                             16sw    7/10f97   WV27=00
64                 Selct and Engage Consulants                                       12w    7/10197   1011197
65                Implemret modeniation plan                                        1Sew    10197   9127100
566
67        JAMPRESS                                                                 212.6w     m9si    9/27100                            _
68            AppointConfirn Ceo and Core Management Team                            3 6w     91219   91251
69            Appoint Agency Coordinator (Shared by JAMPRESS and JIS)                36Ow    9MM9    9/251e6
70            Prepare MP, MTFP, FD                                                  32-5w     9/2/95   4/16i97
71                 Seect and Engage Consultants                                      7 6w     96   101319
72                Consultants Prepare MP, FP, FD                                     25w    101241    4116 97
73            Obtain GOJ and Bank approval for FD, MP and MTFP                        8w    4117197   6/11197
74            PS and CEO sign FD, MP and MTFP                                         4w    6/12197    719197
75            Implement modemization plan                                           16ew    7/10197   9127/00



96
LU-
=
o
0
0. 
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LC
LU~~~~~~~~U'
-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LU
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L0
LL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
U                            E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~u-I I
C -    -E       '
j                                                                            Ow   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U~0   C



Os  "  a    co   co   -J  d0 a  ~ U~ a  C    *    I    -    I
Ur    c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CL~~~~~~~~~~~
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
L6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C...  m  W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c



ANNEX 6                                                                                       6
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year 1                                     Year 2
ID   Task Name                                                               Duration   Start   Finish    Qtr 1       Qtr 2      Qtr 3      Qtr 4      Qtr 1      Qtr 2      Qtr 3
126           PS and CEO sign FD, MP and MTFP                                      4w    6/12/97   71/97
127           Implement modernization plan                                       168w    7110197   9/27/00
128               Select and Engage Consultants                                    12w    7110197   10/1197
129               Implement modernzabon plan                                      156w    10/297 M 927100
130
131       REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES                                                  252w    9M2M96   6/29/01                       ._
132           AppointConfifm  Ceo and Core Management Team                        3 6w     9/2/96   9125M96
133           Appoint Agency Coordinator                                          3        6w  9M/96   9125996
134           Prepare MP, MTFP, FD                                          1    326W     9M2M96   4/16/97
135               Select and Engage Consultants                                   7 6w     92196  101W3NW
136               Consultants Prepare MP, FP, FD                                  25w   10124/96   4116t97
137           Obtain GOJ, ODA and Bank approval for FD, MP and MTFP                6w    4/17/97   6111197
138           PS and CEO sign FD, MP and MTFP                                      4w    3/12/97    4/6197
139           Implement moremization plan                                        1s6w      49/97   6127t00
140               Select and Engage Consultants                                   12w      4/9197    711.97
141               Implement modemration plan                                      156w     721/97   6127/00
142           Civil Works                                                         252w     912196   6129101
143
144       ADMINISTRATOR GENERAL                                                 216.8w   2_1  - _2=1
145           Appoint/Confirm Ceo and Core Management Team                        3 8W    1212/96  1212696.
146           Appoint Agency Coordinator (Shared by MEH, RT, TPD, SO)             3.w     1296  12126_
147           Prepare MP, MTFP, FD                                               32-tw    12/2/96   7117197
148               Seled and Engage Consultants (Same for JAMPRESS and JIS)        7 8w    12 1MM     37
149               Consultants Prepare MP, FP, FD                                  -9 127   7/7197
150           Obtain GOJ, ODA and Bank approval for FD, MP and MTFP               12W    7118/97   10_9/97



.4   -i  ~~~~-  -4  i  ,-4* ~                      X           . 
100u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2 02;U0 a 
C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
......................................... ................. .. ........ ... .............................................. ...................  .................................................
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.     .   .     . .   . ..  .. . . .     ..     . ...  . . . . .. ..  . .. . .    .  ... . .
66 H111    1  1 -



ANNEX6                                                                                             8
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
YearlI                                       Year 2
ID    Task Nane                                                                 Duration    Start    Finish     Qtr I      Qtr 2       Qtr 3      Qtr 4       Qtr    |  Qtr2         Qtr3
176                ConsuRants Prepare MP, FP, FD                                      25w     5/26/99  11116/98
177            Obtain GOJ and Bank approval for FD, MP and MTFP                        8w    11/1798   1/11/99
178            PS and CEO sign FO, MP and MTFP                                         4w     1/12/99    2/a_9
179           Implement mnodernization plan                                          151w      21919   1231101
1SO                Select and Engage Consultants                                      12w     2/9/99 5_3_
181                Implement modemrization plan                                      139W     51499  12131/01
192
183       CONSTRUCTION DMSION OF MLGW                                               234.9w    711197  12/31101
184            Appoint/Confirm Ceo and Core Management Teamn                     _ _           71897    /825/97
186           Appoint Agency Coordinator                                              1Bw     826197  12/15/97
186           Prepare MP, MTFP, FD                                                    61w    12116191   211599
187                Select and Engage Consultants                                     3Bw    12/16/97   8/24/98
188                Consultants Prepare MP, FP, FD                                     25w      2S98   2115/99
139            Obtain GOJ and Bank approval for FD, MP and MTFP                        Sw     216/99   4/12/9
190           PS and CEO sign FD, MP and MTFP                                         4w    4)13199   511/99
191           Implement mnodemization plan                                         137.9W     #1U99  12131101
192                Select and Engage Consultants                                      12_     5)11/99    82:w
193               Implement modemrization plan                                     125.9w     8/3199  12t31/01
194
196   PRIVATIZATION                                                                  30BW    2120196  12131101
196       (i) PRIVATIZATION OF WATER AND SEWERAGE SECTOR                             268W    212096    419101     _;
197           Complete Water Sector Studies                                           58w     2r20/9   3131/97
198           Obtain GOJ Decision                                                     Sw      411/97   512697
199           Select consultants                                                     2Cw    527/97  10/13/97
200            Prepare Bidding Documents                                              78w    10/14/97   4112/99



ANNEX 6                                                                                                   9
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year 1                                           Year 2
ID    Task Name                                                                    Duration    Start    Finish        Qtr I       Qtr 2       Qtr 3        Qtr 4       Qtr 1       Qtr 2        Qtr 3
201             Execute Transaction                                                      104w      4n13/99    4/9/01
202        (ii) PRIVATIZATOIO/CONTRACTING OUT OF FACILITIES/SERVICES                    274.6w      9f216    12V01                                _
203             complete privatization/contracting out of First set of 5 facilties/services  302w   (2/9    3/31/97
204             complete prtization/contracting out of Second set of 7 facilRties/servi   52w       4/1/97    330/98
206             complete privatization/contracting out of Third set of 10 facilities/servic  52w    4/198    3/30/9
206             complete privatzatiorncontracting out of Fourth set of 7 facilities/servic  52w     4/119    3r29/00
207             complete prvatizatioi/contrading out of Fifth set of 6 faciliies/services  87 ew    4100    1215/01
208        (fil) Instutional Strengthening of NIBJ                                      278 2w     92/8   1231/01
209
210 GOVT PROC., CONTG., INT. CONTROL & AUDIT    210w   9296  919100                                                                               _
211        Strerten Procurment Poicy Implementation Unit                                 156w      9/2/6    8/27s9
212        Strengthen Ofce of Contractor General                                         156w      9M/8    8/27/99
213        Strengthen Procurment Units in Ministries                                     210w      9/2/9     9/8/oo_
214        Establish Intemal AudR Directorate                                            156w      9M    8(27/99
216        Strengthen Ofice of AudRor General                                            15w      8/2/9    8/27/9
216
217   FMIS/HRMIS                                                                        278.2w     91296   12131101                               _
218        Complete installation of Systems at All SRes                                  20_ w     9/2/     8(25_00
219        Develop Addtinal System Modules                                              278 2w     9/2/    12Z311 01
220
221  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION & DEV.                                                      278.2w   9N9S  12121101                                   _
222        Implement propct                                                            278 2w      si2/96   12131S1_
223        Conduct Communication Campaign                                               278.2w     9/      12131101
224        Develop Stage ll of Public Sector Modemization Process                       272w       9/2s6   12/31101



ANNEX 7         102
THE PLANNING INSTlTUTE OF JAMAICA
AN   M.Y COR SLuasgO.xT REiowZ CE
TO THIS COCMUNICATIO SCOULO E 
ACONESMO TO ThE DIRECTOR CEIEPRAIL
P.C. ICEGo PCi NCTC                                                          Tdim    PLAI JAM JA
C Oca' BoukwVa                    Fod (0) 67-NE
Vhm   Jnauic. W.I.
23rd February, 1996
Mr. Paul Iswrman,
Dirctor,
Latin American and Caribbean Department ll,
1818 H St. NW,
Washington D C 20433.
Dcaz Mir. Tserman,
The Jamaican economy, after more th  a decade of structural adjustment and support
from the International Monetary Fund ClMF), still faces najor developmental challenges to
increase economic growth and development while ensuring stability and greater equity.
Fundamental reform mcasures have been instituted since the mid 1980s to help in metng
these challengcs, and there havc bcen significant gains during the period. There have bean
sustained improvcments in the Balance of Payment position over the past dme ycarn,
undcrlined by growth in exporm of loods and services, sustained improvemets in private
transfers and incrcased private capital inflow. As such thc reserve position impoved fom a
bal:ec of -USS749.0 million-in 1990, to approximately USS460.0 million by September
1994, or the equivalcnt of thirtn (13) weeks of total imnports. Over Lhe pcriod, the economy
also recordcd positive gowth in Gross Domestic Product, albeit at low levels, and total
exrcrnal debt declined from a high of USS4.2 billion in 1990 to US$3.7 billion at the end of
Ciol-S: ct  Wu m Dk* G.m&          *i    n Jwf    . Mc Dnt_ Lawo. Me c  _t0U 



ANNEX 7
103
2
1994. The government is committcd to build on these gains, and further, to work towards the
reduction of povcrty and a more equitable distribution of income.
GOVERNMENT OF JAMAICA CURRENT DEVELOPMENTAL OBJECTiVES
The major focus of thc government's developmentl agenda during the next three
years, will be on four (4) broad areas. These are macroeconomic stability, increased
invcstrnent, improvcd Public Sector efficiency and pov?rty reduction.
In the short term, mamroeconomic stability i.e. luwcring the rate of inflation and ensuring the
viability of the extcmal sector will be given top priority. A major initative in this regard is
the development of a National Partnership as a complementary measure to fiscal and
monctary measures to reduce inflation. The government has cinbarked on a major uxercise to
induce the social partners in the economy  -ade unions and the private sectors along with the
public sector) to adhere to a more balanced adjustment or prices and incomes. The
governmcnts contribution to the process will include consistent monetry and fiscal policies
to cnsure exchange rate stability as well as institutional changcs. In this regard, improved
regulations governing the moneLary sector will be implcmented shortly. As part of the fiscal
efforts expenditure will be contained to targeted levels consistcnt with the broader
stabilition objcctive. The govemment intends to restructure it's debt over a longer period
of time, cffecting a more manageable repayment schedule and containing the level of annual
recurient expenditures.
With regard to capital expenditure, inFrastructural development will rcmain an integral
part of the govcrnment's programme of expenditure. The government recognises its role in
providing the necessary infrastructure to supporL private sector activities, production and



ANNEX 7 104
3
hence growth. niis will dircctly impact on the productivity of sectors like agriculture.
ranufacturing, transportation and distribution, whose outpuLs are directly linked to the state
of the country's infrastructurr. In addition the govemment reCogni7.s the need to build local
govcrnment and the public sector as a whole, to mrakc them more erricient in carryin, out
their roles in the economy, and in parricularuin facilating the needs of the private sector.
There is also the need ror an increase in living standar)s by tackling the most acute form of
poverty as a way of building support for the national thrst and macroeconomic policy.
In pursuit of these developmental goals the govemrnment will vigorously implement the
following projccts.
1.    The Parish Infrastrucnr Project;
2.     The Modernization of the Public Sector, and;
3.     The Social Investment Fund (SIF).
The Parish Infrastructure Project:
The Parish Infrastructure project forms part of the institutional reform of the Local
Govermment Reform Programme (LGRP) and is designed to support this programme by
helping to build the capacities of parishes and local communitics to perform the new roles
and responsibilities to help advance the three (3) overall objectives. The Parish
Infrastructure project is thus designed to complement the LGRP through provision of
invcstfrent funds to restore major clemcnts of pansh intrastructure which have suffered
erosion due to neglert and insufficient maintenance.
The project has as its main objectives (as stmted in the project document):



ANNEX 7        105
. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
4
a)     Support of the Local Govimrnment Reforrn by mnlang it a rcality in the local
communities, thus cnsuring a consaituency to sustain thcse reforms in the long run.
b)    Strengthening the financial viability and capacity of parishes and  local
communities to manage and rnaintain infrastructure systems and to improve the
delivery of service.
C)    Assisting in anr-sting the deterioration of the infstructure in the parishes and local
communitics, thus  fostering the resumption of economic developmcnt in thesm
areas.
d)    Helping to alleviate povcrty in parish communities, with particular emphasis on rural
and inner-city areas.
Thc project has thrce major components which should facilitate the achievemnent of the
above objectives. The first is a technical assistance component for instiLution building. This
incorporates a strengthening of the parishes' administrative, financial management, and
tchnical capacitics. This component will also ensure the availability of selectve support for
the provision of facilitics, cquipmenL and training to institutions which dcliver services to the
paihes.
The second comnponent is that of investments designed to arrcst the dctcioraLion of
major infrastructure. This aspect will be targeted and prioritized, and will be subject to
environmental considetions.
nTe third component is or a social nature which will initiate a social assessment and
participatory approach in investment lending for poverty alleviation.



ANNEX7'    106
Thc major beneficiaries of the projcct are expccted to include the small business and
farning sectors as well as the strcngthening of the local communities' administrLion and
fiscal discipline.
Modernization of the Public Sector:
The scope and size of the public sectur has increased substantially over the past thirty (3)
years. There are approxirately seventy cight thousand 6E8,000) posts, permanent or temporary
within the public sector. Despite or, possibly bccause of the size of the public sector, its
performance is generally considered to be weak and the quality of service to the public less than
optimal. This occurs because of poor, Inter alia, management, cumbersome bureaucratic
procedures, inadcquately trained staff, lack of automation or computerization, low levels of
compensation and the centraliation of authority.
The consequences of a sub-optimally-performing public sector also affects private sor
development. Successive governments havc implemented a number of reform measures with
varying degrees of success. Thnc government's growing recognition of the need for a more
re-sponsive (proacLive) public sector, has motivated the conceptualization of te Public Sector
Modernzation Projcct (PSMP) which proposes to create a smnall, efricient, effective and
accountable public sctor that dlivcrs high quality service to the people.
The primary component of this project is the rationalizaLion of the public sector which
will etail:
i)     Privatizaton of some public sector entities including contracting out of thoase wrvices that
can be delivered more effectively and cfficicntly by the privale sector,
ii)    Down-sizing and stengthening the rcquircd work-force;



ANNEX 7  107
6
iii)    Abolishing redundant statutory bodies anid government companies;
iv)    The creation of executive agencies.
The concept behind the creation or executive agencies is a new one to Jamaica. Ile
primary aim is to reduce excessivc cantralization of control and to delegate authority to managen
in Central Civil Service Departments or Agencies i.e. those not created by statute or fall under
The Companies Act.  This will enable them to to  dccisions in the intcrcst of their
organizations with the focus on results shown in the provision of high quality goods and
services.
The governmcnt is committed to the rapid implementalion of the Public Sector
Modernization Project to achieve the stated objectives. The first major phase of the project to
be implemented within the first half of the year 1996, involves restructuring on a pilot basis, the
'inistry of Local Governmit and Worlm and the Ministry ofEnvironmwnt and Housing, eleven
(11) departments of govemment tareLed for Executive Agency StaLus and the privaizadon of
some- govemnment agencies.
In the meantime, other meanurcs such as the reviewing of conditions of service as they
affect arcas like leave, hases ror redrement and pensions wiLh the views of maidn, the service
more erficient as well as being ablc to attract and retain persons of high competence.
The Jamaica Social Investment Fund (SIF):
Ihe Government, in enunciating its poverty cradication policy, makes refcrcnce to thc
distinction between private poveny (which is sufferd by an individual when he or she cannot
afford to meet his or her basic needs) and public poverty (which exists when a society fin&ls itself
unable to make adequate provision of the basic public goods such as roads, water, sanitation and



X       " ~~~~109
ANNEX 7
7
transport).
The policy accepts that boLh kinds of poverty exist in Jamaica at an unacceptable high
level. It also recognises that poverty is inherently multifaceted and demands a multifaceted
straegy consisting of a range of anti-poverty interventions designed and iniplernented by an
efficient operational partnership between the Governmcnt itself, the beneficiaries, non-
governmental organizations, oLher coLnmunuty-based bodies and the private scctor.
Government has indicated that its cradication policy must work towards the achievement
of the following three thrusts:
i)    the introduction of efficient, equitable and flexible human rcsourec decvlopmcnt
strategies;
ii)    the amendment of the existing welfare system so as to widen its coverage of needy
persons, so as to streamline it for mom efricient adminis=tion and so as to rcst its
operations on the principle Lhat only temporary relief should be available to pcrsons able
in body and mind; and
iii)   the implementation of an integrated programne of poverty reduction activitics
geographically targeted to deprived communities.
In identifying a poverty eradication strategy, the Government has made reference to
programmes within a Social Agenda which is a priority for its administration. This Social
Agerttda will receive the resources, the sustaincd cffort and participation of all sectors of the
society towards achieving specific social objectives.
The present policy direction of the Social Agenda will differ significantly from past
approaches. Its guiding principles will be that of integration, partnership and community-based



ANNEX.7
-' 109
8
participation, and will entail the following:
a.    The establishment of the Human Rcsource Developmnct Programme   to  empower
individuals to achieve sclf-development through  training and improvements in the
quality of cducation.
b.    Individuals and their community organitions will be empowered to identify their needs,
design appropriate projects, generate finance to irpprovc their environment through self
help.
c.    The facilitation of income genemting activities through the provision of credit and
ensuring the participation of small and micro businesses in the economic sector.
d.    All actors in civil society will be assured a participatory role in the development process,
through a system of consultation and representadon at various levels of Lhe system.
C.    An improvernent in the delivery of basic social services, including shelter, to ensure that
there is optimal use of Government resources and that these efforts will have a positive
impact on communities.
The lamaica Social Investment Fund (JSIF) is one important mechanism within the
Government's Social Agenda. Its establishment is considered an imnportant tool in the reduction
of public and private poverty in Jamaica and embodies a mechanism which would be adopting
and 'Jamaicanizina- a straLegy which has to date been adopted with support froin the World
Banlc acting in collaboration with other bilateral financing agencies in more than thirty other
countries with similar problems.
The primary goal of the Fund is to contribute to the reduction and eradication of poverty
and to create an environment for sustainable national development. More specifically, the Fund



ANNEX 7 110
9
is designed to assist the Government in responding to the neods of the most vulnerable groups
currently undeserved by existing povcrty rcduction programmes. Tne objectives of JSIF will be
to:
i)     Establish an efficient, demand-driven and complementary
mechanism lo deliver basic services and infrastnucture to the poor;
ii)    Mobilise and channel addiLional resources to the pcas social assistancc and basic social
and economic infrastructure;
iii)   Increasc thc institutional capacity of governmental and non governmental enlilies to
design, implement, and manage small scale community based projects; and
iv)    Expand community opportunities to identify local socio economic needs and manage and
sustain smal scale coinmuniLy development projects.
The government is convinced that implementing these projects will make a significant
contuibution to stabilizing the economy, reducing poverty and engendering growth and
development. The government is also thankful for Lhe support of the World Bank in
implementing these projects.
Yours sincerely,
W s r&t} 'Genes
DireSor Gncral



ANNEX 8"I
CABliN!cT  OFr ICE_
I DEVON ROAD'.
P.O. BOX 272.
s,.__________                                                                 KINGSTON 6. JAMAICA
March 5,1996
Mr Jit Gill
The Wqrld Bank
1818 H. Street
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America                                  1
Dear Mr. Gill:
Re: Statement of Government on the nature and extent of the autonomy to be granted
The Govemment of Jamaica is committed to the establishment of "Executiye Agencies" as a method of modemizing
and stream-lining the public sector. Central to the implementation of the Public Sector Modernzation Project, are
"Executive Agencies" with the requisite autonomy to manage totally the affairs of the agency. The proposed
autonomy includes jurisdic;icn of ,he financial and human resource management They will be headed by a Chief
Executive Officer, serving under contract, whose autonomy will be balanced by requests for strict accountability in
accordance with pre-determined performance targets. Resources to modernize their operabons will be provided.
Granting autonomy in financial and personnel management is one of the important elements in the modemizaton
strategy.
The Jamaican Constitution, the F;.-ancial Administration and Audit Act. Staff Orders and Public Service Regulabons
allow for flexibility through administrative fiats. As an initial step in establishing "Executive Agencies," the Govemor
General and the Minister of Finance will be asked to grant the requisite administrative fiats required to create
"Executive Agencies" within the present legal and administrative framework. At a later date, legislaton will be
introduced to facilitate the creation of new "Executive Agencies."
Other major considerations include the strengthening of the internal audit mechanism and extending the Financial
Management Information System (FMIS) to the selected agencies. A management team resident within the
respectve agencies will work closely with the Project Coordinating Unit, to plan, monitor and evaluate the progress
of implem4ntation. The Interministerial Committee on Administrative Reform will oversee the entire process, directed
by the Cabinet Secretary.
Yours sincer ly,   d    ,
Carlton E. Davis
Cabinet Secretary / Permanent Secretary
sin a giiiautwpd



ANNEX9           112
PROPOSALS FOR DECENTRALIZING THE MACHINERY OF
GOVERNMENT THE ESTABLISHMELqT OF EXECUTIVE AGENCIES.
INTRODIJCTION
1.   The Executive branch of government established by the Constitution and laws
of Jamaica is based on the constitutional norms known as the Westminster
model of parliamentary democracy. It embodies a highly centralized structure
with agencies are gouped in departments under ministries which reflect the
particular rmix of subjects in the structure of government designated by each
Primc Minister. There is no constitutional norm establishing the core of the
public service and establishing the structure and organization of goverment in
ministres or departments.
2.   The centralization is characterized by a Civil Service which has a common
personnel and human resource systcm  supervised by the Public Service
Commission undcr the Constitution and a set of rules for fmancial prudence
-.and administration supervised by the Ministry of Finance under the Financial
Administration and Audit Act. This Act does not have special constitutional
status but includes provisions that are envisioned by the Constitution.
3.    The Government of Jamaica has embarked on a programme of refonn of the
Public Sector to sccure a 'small efficient  piiblic service, able to respond
flexibly to need, rccovering as rnmch of its costs as possible from fees and with



ANNEX 9 113
2
delegatcd authority as far as possible within separate agencies.'' The World
Bank has comnmissioned this study to identify options available to the
Government of Jamaica for the achievement of the objective of significantly
delegating the dccision-making fimctions within Jamaica's constitutional and
legal framework
4.   This study examines the structure of Executive Agencies carried out in the
United Kingdom, and to a lesser extent, New Zealand and explores the extent
to which tey can be replicated in Jamaica. There are some other experiences
in countries which have adopted the Wesuninster form of government, but the
time within which this study has been commissioned does not allow for their
carefuil examination.
THE EXPERIENCE OF THE UNITED KINGDOM
5.   Next Steps is the name that the British government gave to the Civil service
reforms under which Executive Agencies were set up to deliver government
services.2 The reports that led to the establishment of Next Steps recognized
that
a) 'although the main business of some 95% of the Civil Service was to
' deliver services, operational efficiency attracted a low priority among
'JAMAICA Puinuc SERVICI REFORM by Kate Jenkins January 1"4
'Sr. rnlm UP Nxi' STEPi by Dianne Goldsworthy HMSO London May 1991



ANNEX 9    114
3
senior people compared with giving policy advice to Minister,'
b) ' the Civil Service was still largely governed by a body of centrally
laid down rules, even though it was too bil and too divers to be managed
as a single entity,'
c) 'central controls prevented local managers from being able to make
decisions in thc best interests of their own opprations.'"
6.    The solution that was recommended and which has been imnplenented was the
separation of thc executive fwLictions of government from the policy-makcing
role and the dissolution of the centrally controlled management structure. The
old structure has been largely replaced by a number of executive agencies in
which there is delegation of personal responsibility for the effective delivery of
igh quality and responsive services to the public. By September 1994 62% of
the British Civil Scrvice were working in the new system which now has over
1 00 agencies and there are plans for the Revenue departments and a further
17% of the functions of the civil iwnice to be agency candidates.'  113 Chief
Executive otTicers had been appointed up to August 1995, 71 of whom as a
rcsult of the posts being advertised, aid 35 of them coming from busMess and
outside the Civil Service.'
7.  .JThe refonns have been so radical that they have witnessed the advertisement
Jlbid page 4
'NEXT SrRs RFVTFw 1994 proetod to Parliament by the Chancelor of the Duchy of
Lancaster Cm 2750 Ocigber 1994 HMSO
lIntcrview with Karen Caines Augumt 17, 1 995 London



ANNEX9    115
4
of vacancies in posts of Perrnanent Secretaries. The achievements of the new
system have rested on clear and meaningful delegation of personnel
responsibilities, managerial independence and autonomy ovcr resources,
flexible pay agrcenients and budgeting arrangements, all within the context of
the acceptance of accountability of the Chief Executives to the appropriate
minister and without 'erodimg Ministers accountability to Parliament or
imperilling  the control of public expenditure '   The British Govemment,
through Prime Minister Major, has concluded that these changes bave
introduced more transparency into the work of Govermnent, within the
constitutional principle that it is Ministers who are accountable to Parliament
for all that their departments (including agencies) do."
S.   A significant factor in the success of thc refonns in Britain has been the fact
that they received strong support from Mrs. -Margaret Thatcher, the Prime
Minister at the time when the initial steps were taken. Her supporn was
* uquivocal and was characterized by the directness and brevity of ber speech
in the House of Commons wbhn the proposals were first presented.  This
comaiitrnent has been followed by her successor Mr. John Major.
9.   -In Britain the processes that have been introduced have included the
establishmcnt of a Audit Conunission that goes beyond the issues of financial
4
'SkrrING UP NI.XT S11YS ibid page 9
'THL- CIVIL SERVTCE CrTwrIUrrY AN) CWANGJE White Paper prewnted to Parliament
by the Primen Minister, thc Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Chancellor of the Duchy of
Lancaster July 1994 Cm 2627 k1NISO



ANNEX 9 116
accountability with which the Auditor Gcneral is concemerd. The requirement
that each agency publishes its annual business plan and annual report in
addition to annual accounts has been strengthened by the requirement that
annual public meetings musct be held to solicit public reaction to their
performance.
10.  The lcpl framework that the British government has established for the
creation of Execujtivc agencies has restcd partly on lcgislation and partly on the
exercise of thc royal prerogative. The legislation is the Govemrnment Trading
Act 1973, The Govcrrunent Trading 1990, The Property Services Agency and
Crown Suppliers Act 1990 and The Deregulation and Contracting Out Act
1990. The Govcmrent Trading Act 1990 amended the 1973 Act and provides
for the financing by trading fimds of certain services of the Crown.
11   The Ministcrs responsible for the admninistation of certain  government
services may. if it appears to them expedient in the interests of improved
commcrcial operatiou and public accountability of a service, by order made
with thc concurrence of the Treasury, direct that the service shall be financed
by mcan of a trding fimd established with public money, instead of by means
of anmual budget votcs and appropriations. Orders must be made by statutory
#ipsnMcnts which must be laid in draft forn before the House of Commons and
approved by resolution by that House. The initial capital for the fund is
normally provided by way of a loan from the National Loan Fund.
'4 Halsbury's Laws orEngland Vol K Constitutional Law pamr 1399



ANNEX 9       117
6
12.  Trading profits in the fornm of public capital dividends are paid into the
Consolidated Fund and the fund is under the cnntrol and management of the
rcsponsible minister, who is under a duty to manage the funded operations so
that tOe revcnue of the fund is sufficicnt to meet the outgoings properly
chargeablc to revcnue account and to meet such financial advantages that the
minuster with thc concurrence of the Treasuiry ha- from time to time laid before
the House of Camnuons.' Ministers set targets for rates of return on capital and
other indicators of financial performance, which means that trading funds
operate with targcts sinilar to those used by equivalent service providers in the
privatc sector. 0 The Treasury appoiints accounting officers for the trading
fund and they are subject to the in.spection of the Comptroller and Auditor
General, who has a duty to examine and certify the accounts and report on it to
Parliament." Up to December 1994 twelve agencies were operating as trading
fun.12
13.  LIkc the tading fiuded agcncies the others are required to publish commercial-
style accounts on an accruals basis and the government has decided that this
approach should be extended to all dcpartments by April 1998. The other
'Ibid para 1405
tThe Civil Service Continuity and Chanyge presented to Parliament by the Prime
MiListcr, the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster July
1994 Cm 2726 HMSO
"Ibid para 1406
"Next Stcps Review 1994 presented to Parliament by the ChaLncelor of the Duchy of
Lancastcr Deccmber 1994 Cm 2750



ANNEX9   11
7
development that has been of special interest to Jamaica is that agencies have
dcveloped pay and grading arrangements tailored to their specific needs and the
British Government has proposcd to cxtenid delegation of responsibility for pay
and grading of staff belowv senior levels to all departmcnts and agencies by
April 1996.'3
14.  The Property Services Agency and Crown Suppliers Act 1990 gives the
Secretary of State power to makc schemes for the 'ansfer to persons of
property, rights and liabilities to whicii a Minister of the. Crown is entitled.
The schemes may confer liabilities for the purpose of converting into a contract
between the transferce under it and a Minuster of the Crown any arrangements
existing before the existence of the scheme under which goods and services
were being provided. These schemes can also include companies formed or
acquired by the Secretary of State.
i 5.  These statutes havc not been relied on for the creation of the majority of the
cxecutive agencies that havc been formed in Britain. By virtue of the Royal
Prerogative thc sovercign is the supreme executive authority in the state and all
executive actionsare done in the nmne of the sovereigi." "Ministcrs rely daily
on the royal prerogative for what they do. That Miristers can rely on that part
; of the common law known as the royal prerogative to do what would otherwise
bc ut]awfutl is highly convenicnt to them. In relying on the prerogative,
"Ibid
"4 Halsbury's Laws of England Vol 8 pare 931



ANNEX 9 119
Ministers are obviously not limited by the terms of any Act of Parliament."
a.   The ability of the British cabinet minister to rely on this residuary power
not only made it relatively simple for the creation of executive agencies
but also sharply distinguishcs the legal constraints that exist under the
unwritten constitutional govemance of that system and the written
Westminster model in Jamaica.
THE NEW ZEALAND EXPERIENCE
16.  It is instructive to look at the experiences of a Commonwealth nation that has
becn modeled on the Westminster systcm. New Zealand undertook a radical
progranmme of reform its economy and the managcment of public
administration. These reforms have been at. the forefront of the political
agendas of the political parties for over 10 years, and it was recognized that
total reform  of the systems of government management was required to
accompany the economic reforms vvhich were designed to redefine the role of
government. Like the British the New Zcalanders set out to separate policy
advice from the operational units which have responsibility for the
administration of that policy. They established arm's length contractual
arrangements between the govcrnment's role as funder, purchaser and provider
of services both to the govcrnment and to the public directly. They also
developed stuctures that promoted competition between government providers
"Constitutional reform Rcshaping the British Political System by Rodney Brazier Oxford
University Press 1991



ANNEX 9 120
9
of public services and betwecn govenunent providers and prvate sector
providers.
17.  There were two process by which the transformation was achieved. One was
by corporatizatior' under the Companies Act and the appointment of directors
witl private sector experience, who wcre not selected because of their political
connections. The other process was the radical reform of the core of the
government administration under a system that saw the introduction of The
State Sector Act and the Public Finance Act, that require government
departmcnts and non-commercial departments to (a) have clearly defined
strategic and operational objectives, (b) decentralize financial and
administrative management and accept accountability for results, (c) receive
allocations from State funds through the Budget based on achievement of
results, (d) publish information on thc results that had been achieved and the
condition of the organization. The new system is described by Scott C.
Graham, visiting scholar at the New Zealand Fiscal Affairs Department of the
Ministry of Finance in these words; " the Mini-vier, acting within the collective
respunsibility of the Cabinet, is fifrmally respon ible fimr specitjing the
perfurmance re uircmcnt:s qf the dcpurimental (.hiuf Executive responsible for
.service delivcry.   Decision-making authority about how to meet those
performancc requirements is passed lo that C.hief Executive. 7here are now
incentivcs to perform, and raquirefments for performance inlormation. "7
'CGovernment Refoz iiin Ncw Zealand by C;raham Scott, 1995 Section 5
"Ibid page 38.



ANNEX 9 121
I0
18.  The New Zealand constitution does not have the kind of constraints that exist
under the Jamaican Constitution. As a result the two Acts established the
framework for performance agreements between the Ministers and the Chief
Executives and he Chief Executives are the legal cmployers of the staff of the
depart;ments. This radical departure from the old civil service model has taken
place in a context where the laws tleniTselves shifi of the focus of the
managernct system and the allocation of resources from imputs to outputs. The
objective is to givc Parliamcnt control over the disposition of public funds.
19.  In the section of Scott' paper which deals with the Operational Financial
Management he lists 14 charactenistics of the framework surrounding a Chief
Executive, which include, (i) an employment contract for 5 years with a
possible cxtension based on perfonnance, (ii) possibility of receiving
perfornance bonuses for above-expectation performance or criticism or
dismissal for below expected performance, (iii) freedom to manage staff
without central regulations, (iv) budget based on rcsources for output
production, (v) tabling of financial forecast statements and other accountability
documents in Parliament (vi) monthly monitciing of financial information by
the Treasury and (vii) annual reports to Parliament on performance of
dcpartment based on a standard questionnaire by the Finance and Expenditure
V Committee.I'
THE JAMAICAN CONSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
"Ibid page 89



ANNEX 9 122
11
20.  By Section 68 of the Jamaican Conistitution executive authority m Jamaica is
vested in the Queen This authority is exercised on her behalf by the Govemor-
Generl either directly or through subordinate officers. parliament has the
power to confer executive fimctions on persons and authorities other than the
Governor-General.
21.  Section 77 of the Constitution of Jamaica recognizes the division of the
organization of the central govemment into ministries. This is done by the
assigiment of subjects to Cabinet Ministers by the Governor-General on the
advice of the Prime Minister. Ministers excrcise general direction and control
over the departbnents but the supervision of them rests with the Permaent
Secretary (Section 93). The Constitution makes no provisions as to how the
intenal organization of the departments are organized and recognizes through
the provisions thal it mikes relating to the personnel functions relating to public
officrs that delegation of thesc fmcntions is contemplated. Section 127 permits
the delegation by the Governor-General of the appointment, removal and
discipline of public officers to 'any other authority or public officer' as he may
specify.
22.  The provisions relating to Finance are contained in Chapter VIII and do not
contain specific terms rclating to the management of the finances of
dcpartnents and agencies of Govenunent. Section 116 contemplates that the
estimates of expenditure which the Minister responsible for f&ance prepares
will be incorporated in an Appropriation Bill which will be broken down into
'appropriate heads Ibr the sevcral services required ' during the financial ycar.



ANNEX 9 123
12
The detailed regimc for achieving good order in the financial administration of
the public sector is contained in the Financial Administration and Audit Act.
The Minister of Finance has specific power to make regulations and in some
cases to delegate his powers to Accounting and Accountable officers.
23.  It would be a simplistic approach to the speedy transformation of the existing
Jamaican administrative Civil service structures to merely copy the legislative
framework within which the British government has established Executive
Agencies. It overlooks the fact that the Bn'tish Govement does not operate
wthin the context of a wntten constitution. In addition it is enToneously assume
that because Jamaican governance is based on Westninster parliamentary
denocracy that this in itself ensures that the threads that make up the fabric of
British political culture are of the same genus as those that hold political
practice together in Jamaica.
24..  The significant difference between Britain and Jamaica is that parliamentary
democracy in Britain operates in an environment in which the power of the
Legislature over the Executive has been cxercised from time to time and that
the accoumtability of the Executive to the Legislature is ensured by the fact that
there is a tradition of backbencbers bring the Government to books. Parliament
is powerfl because there are sufficient members whose political reputations
depend upon their ability and willingness to champion causcs even at the risk
of falling foul of their own party when it forms the government. No such
tradition exists in Jamaica. The Executive dominatcs the Legislature and in a
real sense the practice of 'parliamentary democracy in Jamaica is in the form



ANN]R 9 124
13
of 'cabinct government' resulting from the fact that what has been copied is not
the 'Westminster model' but a form of cabinet govemment in which the
legislaturc has become dominated by the Executive and in which legislators
themselves are embroiled in administrative finctions."
25.  Jamaica faces a number of issues that will have to be addressed in the ongoing
discussions that arc taing place on constitutional refonm. While that process
moves to a state of fruition it is noted that the United Kingdom and New
Zealand share much in common with Jamaica's political and administrative
culture which can guide our transfomation to an efficient results-oriented
system of public administration. Both expenrences have cmerged over many
years of change and both have takcn place within the context of specific laws
that were enacted to drive the processcs of change forward. Jamaica does not
have the time to allow the process to evolve slowly and it has no alternative but
to enact the laws, that will create the framework within our constitution, for
radical change.
SOME PRE REQUISITES FOR THE NEW SYSTEM
26.  Tlbere are a number of political assumnptions that wiU have to be accepted and
.also enshrined in the enabling legislation that will govem decentralization
"The Economist 7 October. 1995 page 52. Jamaica New Politrics ? " What Jamaica calls
Vtc westmninster system' bears little rclation tn its namesake. With no effective local
govcrrunent and rtot much of a civil service cither. members of parliament are responsible for
everything from disaster relief to road-building.' (Author's note: This view was not illustrated
but it demonstrates a view of the Jamaican political system which has gained wide support.)



ANNEX 9 125
14
through the introduction of Executive agencies.
27.  First and forcmost. the Minister must remain accountable to Parliament for the
agency which will be made into an exectutive agency. The Minister must also
be accountable for the core department that remains a part of the Civil Service
establishment under the ministry for which he or she has portfolio
responsibility. This must be clcarly set out in enabling statute and it must be
clear that it overrides all statutes that establish any statutory authority. For
example, if it were decided to make the Water Commission or the National
Insurance Scheme into an executive agency the should be no doubt that the
respective ministers remain accoTntable to Parliament. Thc creation of
executive agencies must not create a shield behind which the ulnmatc executive
responsibility at the Cabinet level can be hidden and a statute should spell out
the minimuri standards for accounting. ;
28.. The statutes should also set out clearly the nature of the accountability of the
Chief Executive officer in terms that will not blur that responsibility with
ministerial accountability. There should be no doubt that the reforms are
centered on the objectives of accountability, greater effciency and transparency
-in the use of public funds. There must be standards by which the public can
measure the performance of the agencies and assess whether the quality of the
services that are delivered is compatible with the provision of value for money.
29.  Another area that will require spccific trcatment will be the demarcation of the
relationships of the Minister, the Civil Service department and the executive



ANNEX 9
15G
agcncy. This will require clear definition of the stucture with'in which the
ministcr monitors the rnanagement of the agency, the obligation of the Minister
to publish the outputs against which he will measure the agency's performance
and the publication of the framework agreement through which a CEO
undertakes to manage the agency in ptirsuiit of the stated outputs.
30.  In this connmction the statute will have to spell out the level of autonomy that
CEOs will enjoy and will havc to recognize the professionalism of the Civil
Service. it is arguable that details of this kind should be excluded from statute
law and should bc left to the framcwork agreements that will be signed between
the mini5tcrs and the CEOs. The difficulty with this approach is that it come
against the background of a Civil service that has yielded its obligation and
right to defer from Ministers on adcninistrative matters and we are operating in
the context of an environment in which the demarcation between policy and
executive function have become blurred  In addition the Government would
have to cstablish some professional machinery to ensure that the faramework
axeernents clearly state the following:
(a) what the tasks of the Executive agency are.
(b) the outputs against which the pcrformance of the agency will be
assessed
(c) the indicators of changc that will be uscd to assess whether in
addition to achieving the targeted ouitputs thc service to the public has
improved; for example the extent to which the public is getting value for



ANNEX9  127
16
money.=
THE POLITICS OF TRANSFORMA rFION
31.   Tlicrc are a number of othcr considerations for which no legislative standards
can be established but which nouethclcss will require attention to ensure that
the accountability of Ministers aid agencies to Parliament does not become the
kind of process that the Public Accoults Comunittce has become. Systems will
hiave to be established that will ensure that, the targets having been set between
the Minister and the CEO, and having been embodied in a quasi legal contract,
the performance of the agencies and the monitoring process by the Minister is
open to public scrutiny This among other things will require that a special
Parliamentary Conrumittee with the requisite expertise is cstablished and that
therc are managerial systems that will tell that committee and Parliament what
is happening, not merelv with the peripheral Issues buit more so with regard to
the big issues that impact on the public on a day to day basis.
32.   There are other rcasons why the approach of ' minor amendments' to the
existing Financial Administration and Audit Act and the Civil Service
Establishmcnt Act are undesirable. The reforms will only be credible if they
enjoy the enthusiastic support of the senior ministers of government, including
'In the U.K the introduction of executive agencies has been accompanied by an incrcase
in the cxternal auditing of thc se agencies This auditing has to go beyond financial auditing in
order to ensure that thc objcctive of producing better se.vice to the public is achieved and has
included quality auditing, analysc5 of manage ment overheads across different agencies, process
indicators and spot checks.



ANNEX 9   130
19
(c) the services that will be provided to the ptublic and the government,
(d) the spccific measurable qiiality, quantity, cost effectiveness targets,
(e) thc resourue flows required to fulfill the targets of thc agreement,
(f) the miniTnum reporting requircments,
(g) the activities to be implementcd in the contract period,
(h) the lcvel of personnel ajnd financial managerial responsibility that
will be undertaken by the Chief ExectiAve Officer,
(') the Jevcl of financial and performance accountability that will be
required of the Chief Exccutive Officer.
THE PILOT PROJECTS
37.   Four agencies have been chosen as pilot projects, viz; The Registrar of
Copn i'es, The Registrar of Births and Deaths, The Registrar of Titles and the
Customs Departmcnt.. E;ach one of these agencies operates under its own
statute. For easy reference I will examine the Companies Registry and the
Registrar General's Office.
38    The Registration (Births and Deaths) Act, which was enacted in 1881, provides
for the Govenor-General to appoint "a fit person" to be Reg'strar of Births and
deaths in Jamaica. This person holds office during the Governor-General's
.: plcasure and is removable by him." The Registrar of Rilrth% and Deaths is also
the Rcgistrar of Mamages under the Marriage Act.ZZ Under the Rcgistration
z'Section 4 Registration (Births and Deaths) Aut
22Section 42 Marriage Act.



ANNEX 9  131
20
(Births and Dcaths) Act the Governor-General appoints a] of tilc staff The
legal basis for creating an cxecutive agency is therefore already in existence.
39.   i thie case of the Companies Registry, the office of Registrar of Comparuies is
a public officc3and appointments to this office are in the authority of the Public
Service Commission under the Constitution.
i
40.  In practice thcrc is no distinction between the authority for the appointment of
the two offices and thc distinction is related to the fact that the Companies Act
is a post-independence statute which complies with the lettr of the
Constitution and Registration (Births and Deaths) Act was enacted within the
norms of the structure of Government that existed when the Govemor had the
powers which now vest in the Public Service Connssion.
REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES AND PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT
41.  The Governor-Ccneral hms authority under Scction 127 of the Constitution to
delegate the functions of the Public Service Comrission over the appointment
transfer and discipline of public servants. This power should be evoked in
respect to the staff of the Office of the Registrar of Companies anid the
Registar Gencral and delcegated the holders of the posts of Registrar. Separate
I lcgal instrunicts  should be used which are tailored to the particular
circumstances of each agency.
'3Section 333 Companie5 Act



-132
ANNEX 9
2L
42.   The instruments should set out the standards of good employrneiit practices
that the CEO will be required to practice, and establish the procedures for
discipline that will be followed under the delegated atithonty. These standards
and practices should conform to enlightcned and modern standards and must
enable the CEO to effectively take responsibility for the efficient management
of the personiel under her control
43.  Thcre will be thc problem of the rights of existing staff who enjoy the nrghts
that civil servants have under Constitution   The Government muLst take a
number of polic;y decisions abotit hiow they will approach this problem. It is
faced with its obligation to uphold thc Constitution. It is also faced with its
obligation to deliver eficient, cost-effective and courteous service to the public.
In pursuit of thesc objectives it must decide whether it is going to dis-establish
the entire offices of the two Registries except for the Chief Executive Officers
or creatc the mechanism for seconding staff in and oUt nf the two offices as the
need arises.
44    Tie later course is faced with the anomaly that employees within the registries
will bc under a diffcrent set of terms of employment than exists under their
substantive cngagements as Civil Scrvants. A great deal depends on the speed
with which the transformation is undertaken, the level of commitment that is
. generated for the new system within the particular departments and the Civil
Service as a whole, the extent to which the labour movement, the political
establishment and the public at large arc recruited as active supporters of the
modernization and the assessment of the timing for the enactment of



133
ANNEX 9
22
comprehensive legislation to goveni the implementation of the new system
throughout the Public Sector.
THE REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES - FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
45.  The delegabon of financial management to the Registrar of Companies and the
Registrar Gencral can be effcct'vely and ifficiently undertaken under the
Financial Administration and Audit Act. As in the case of the delegation of
personncl finctions each delegation should be undertaken by a separate
instrument that is specially tailored to meet the requirements of the particular
agency.  Tiis is not only required to easure that the delegation meets the
differing dictates of good order that are indicated by the nature of the activities
that each undertakes. but also because the statutes that establish each agency
deals with revenue in specific ways.
46.  In the case of the Companies Act Section 334 reqcuires that all fees shall be paid
into the Consolidated Fund. This includes the fees payable vunlder the. Ninth
Schedule which makes provision for a variety of fees for several categories of
business activities that are regtilated by the Act. Similarly the other statutes
that arc administered by the Registrar. including the Business Names Act, the
Industrial and Provident Societies Act, the Trade Marks Act and the Designs
sand Patents Acts, have their fees set out in schedules that require amendment
by Parliament. Since these are user fees and are not taxes the power to amend
them and keep thme in line with the costs of maintaining the services of the
Rcgistry should be delegated to the CEO and account taken of this in the



ANNEX 9 13'
23
regulations for this registry uinder the Financial Administration and Audit Act.
47.  Section 50 of the Financial Administration and Audit Act gives the MiLnister
general powcrs to make regulations. It is proposed that appropriate regulations
specifically crafted to meet the objectives of creating an efficient Executive
Agcncy at the Registrar of Companies should be made under this section
embracing the power of the Financial Secretary to give directions to institutions
unidcr Section 51. Some of the specific instructions would address the sevcral
powers set out in the different sections of the Act.
48.  Section 7 dcals with revenues to be paid into the Consolidated Fund and
Section 8 with directions for the payment of fees penalties and unusual
receipts. Thc Minister of Finance has power to give special directions under
these sections and thc directions for the functioning of the Companies Registry
as an Executivc agency. should incorporate flexible but transparent procedures
that would enable the efficient finctioning of this agency.
49.  Sitnilarly the dircctions would provide expanded powers of virement under
Section 1 9A, power to make contracts for goods and services under Section
1 9B and flexiblc power over the custody and control of govermnent property.
which would includc the power to dispose of property which is no longer useful
to the agency
50.  Section 24A(3) of the Financia) Administration and Audit Act contains
provisions relating to the preparation and stubmission of Estimates of Revenue



ANN EX 9   135
24
and Expenditure and the keeping of, among other things, accounts and records.
Section 24E deals with credit arrangements and Section 24F with standard
financial instructions. The comprehensive regulations under the Act, which
would cover the items which fall tmdeT the jurisdiction of the Financial
Secretary as well as those under the Minister's authority could address all of the
concerns that relate to maintaining accountability.
THE REGISTRAR-GENERAL
51.  The approach to the transformation of thic Reg'strar-General's OfFicc as a pilot
project should proceed along similar lines to that proposed for the Registrar of
Companies. This means that a separate delegation of personnel and financial
management directions should be tailorcd to meet the ex-agencies of that office
and the performnance environment in which it will operate and the targets that
will be set. There are some differences in the Registration (Births and Deaths)
Act which are worth noting. Section 9 contains provisions relating to payment
of fees of the Re 'strar-General into the Treasury. Tbc Act also contains
provisions for payment of salaries (Section 6), expenses for carrying out the
Act (Section 60), and Section 73 gives thc portfolio Minister power to alter the
appointed fces by Order This latter power can be delegated by the appropriate
legislative instrument to the Registrar-General.
52.  The portfolio Minister also has power under Section 8 of the Act to make
rcegulations for the government of the office. This power can also be delegated
to the Registrar-General by an appropriate legislative instrument.



ANNEX 9 136
25
53;  It cannot be over-emphasized that the initiation of the pilot project. no less than
the introduction of the comprehensive framework for the transformation of the
public sector by introducing Executive Agencies, will depend openness anid
winning the support of the leadersbip and management cadre of the Civil
Scrvice, the labour movement, the political parties, the press and the
managemcnt organizations of the private sector. Unless significant leaders
own and promote thc concept in the context of a recognition that the public is
entitled to better standards of servicc and value for money, the pilot project will
not move smoothly and produce optimum results.
HUG14 SMALL QC



25    81  u.S. A. 80         7T              5773                                            7700                               I3_
THE                                                                       A   1 A
BAHAMAS                             EteYSAiQn r                              m      *
- 00'o  Feet            Meters                 AJ   I          VMAI C9a
MEXICO          CUBA                 DOPNCAN             590e            1800                 Main Arterial Roads              0    Selected Towns
20'                                     lIEP 2
HAITI                      2954  W        900                   Main Secondary Roads            0    Parish Capitals
BELIZE      JAMAICA                                    1477           450                   Main Ports                            National Capital
International              591           180                  International Airports                Parish Boundaries
HONDUFI AS            ~~~~~~Boundaries 
IIONDUsRAS                                                                  N\N80   oudres 5   ooaMWGR0  Region Boundaries  County Boundaries
ICARAQUA           7*        70'
CORNWAL...! .                                         04
mor~~~~~ ~FALMOUTH                                 ST AN.#',0                                                        iaaoY 
-18 sa   LUCEA           eYr                                        O    R1  T
Elpring -\ A        d    Z     hR                                  PoInt
/~t   (  4Ge 3lesS    Q    Wer          { Yakefield                                 MARItA
|, <_1   >   ; 8oambrEO REL AIV w                           Gayle         Annotto
Lorndon        \            e        Oxford I7 ,P-O,R~ -               . .     \      |   {             /  ;7_   ANTONO
SAANA                  ' xUdgotty-   _                  ,Trout   ;Fair ev1 w,                                        i     y  HP
%x xt UAt*E~~~VILLE .    'PC  NC\
<J>   -\\    _> 9ErU$C L 4RENx ;  S  |        _E                                  ), Alec~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hoctors
0 ~~~~~~~RIVER   ;  *  
~k.  -. RfAVC/HES rE;! -- ' '  :Old           Royal   BY ~
Kaiser      -- -         ~~~       ~       ~~~Bay  I/ /v 'iVAY
M                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rocky Point °
X  O    0    2~~~01   SO    40    SO KLO STERS
3                tm        ts Znp__ 1  0  1v0  20  8F0  MLS                                                                                -/ wed.F1o Ih -1fn_ fo 
rD                   ~~~~~       ~~~~~761t0o          77saY                            77'00                            7d3se 









IMAGING
Report No:       15388 JM
Type: SAR



