Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4083-JM
                              Loan Agreement
                   (Public Sector Modernization Project)
                                 between
                                 JAMAICA
                                   and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated October 2, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4083-JM
                             LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated October 2, 1996, between JAMAICA (the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS  (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to contract from ODA (Overseas
Development Administration) a grant (the ODA Grant) in an amount
equivalent to UK 2,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the ODA Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and ODA;
     (C)  the Borrower intends to contract from EU (European Union)
a grant (the EU Grant) in an amount equivalent to approximately
$3,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the EU Grant Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and EU; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
Page  2
                    General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Agencies 'A'" means the agencies or entities which are
owned or controlled by the Borrower and have not been classified as
Agencies 'B' or Agencies 'C' under the Project;
     (b)  "Agencies 'B'" means the agencies or entities listed in
annex 1 to the Implementation Letter which are owned or controlled
by the Borrower, as such annex may be amended from time to time with
the agreement of the Bank;
     (c)  "Agencies 'C'" means the agencies or entities which are
owned or controlled by the Borrower and to be listed in the action
plans referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement;
     (d)  "ARP" means the Borrower's Administrative Reform Programme
Office within the Prime Minister's office;
     (e)  "CS" means the Cabinet Secretary of the Borrower;
     (f)  "Cooperation Agreement" means the agreement referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
     (g)  "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing
on April 1 and ending on March 31;
     (h)  "FMIS" means the financial management information system
initially developed under the Financial and Program Management
Improvement Project and financed out of the proceeds of Loan No.
3386-JM pursuant to the Loan Agreement dated June 28, 1991 entered
into between the Borrower and the Bank;
     (i)  "Framework Document" means any of the agreements or arrange-
ments, satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered into between each
Agency "B" or Ministry "B", as the case may be, with the Borrower as
referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement;
     (j)  "HRMIS" means the human resource management information
system initially developed under the Financial and Program Management
Improvement Project and financed out of the proceeds of Loan No.
3386-JM pursuant to the Loan Agreement dated June 28, 1991 entered
into between the Borrower and the Bank;
     (k)  "IAD" means the internal audit directorate referred to in
Part C.4 of the Project;
     (l)  "Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date here-
with from the Borrower to the Bank listing the names of the Agencies
'B', Ministries 'A', Ministries 'B' and the positions of the staff to
be employed by the PCU as referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as such letter may be amended from time to time with the
agreement of the Bank;
     (m)  "Medium-Term Financing Plan" means an Agency 'B' or a
Ministry 'B' five year financing plan, acceptable to the Bank, which
includes, inter alia: (i) the capital and revenue expenditures to be
financed within such timeframe; and (ii) the Borrower's yearly
budgetary allocations to such agency or ministry, as such plan may be
amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;
     (n)  "Ministries" means all the Borrower's ministries;
Page  3
     (o)  "Ministries 'A' " means the Ministries listed in annex 2 to
the Implementation Letter;
     (p)  "Ministries 'B' " means the Ministries listed in annex 3 to
the Implementation Letter, as such annex may be amended from time to
time with the agreement of the Bank;
     (q)  "Modernization Plan" means an Agency 'B' or a Ministry 'B'
plan, acceptable to the Bank, which includes, inter alia: (i) the
actions to improve the efficiency and performance of such agency or
ministry; and (ii) a timetable to implement such plan;
     (r)  "MOFP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Planning;
     (s)  "NIBJ" means the National Investment Bank of Jamaica Limited;
     (t)  "OAG" means the Office of the Auditor General of the Borrower;
     (u)  "OCG" means the Office of the Contractor General of the
Borrower;
     (v)  "Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the
Bank, to be adopted by the Borrower as provided in Section 6.01 (a)
of this Agreement which includes, inter alia: (i) the procurement and
disbursement procedures to be followed during Project implementation;
(ii) the guidelines and procedures to be followed by the Borrower in
carrying out the environmental audits referred to in Section 3.06 of
this Agreement; and (iii) the Project indicators, as such manual may
be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank;
     (w)  "Permanent Secretary" means the administrative head of a
Ministry 'B';
     (x)  "PCU" means the project coordination unit established by CS
on November 2, 1994;
     (y)  "PPIU" means the procurement policy implementation unit
referred to in Part C.1 of the Project;
     (z)  "Privatization Policy" means the Borrower's policy to carry
out the privatization process in Jamaica reflected in the Borrower's
Ministry Paper No. 34 dated June 1991, as such policy may be further
amended by the Borrower;
     (aa) "Procurement Committees" means the procurement committees
established within the Ministries;
     (ab) "Procurement/Contracting Units" means the procurement/
contracting units established within the Ministries; and
     (ac) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
     Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
an amount equal to twenty eight million four hundred thousand Dollars
($28,400,000).
     Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
Page  4
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus
LIBOR Total Spread.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
               the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter,
               and after the initial period, each period from and
               including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding
               the next following Interest Payment Date.
         (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period,
               the London interbank offered rate for six-month
               deposits in Dollars for value the first day of such
               Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial
               Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date
               occurring on or next preceding the first day of such
               Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the
               Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
        (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
              (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus
              (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such
              Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank
              offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
              deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
              borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank
              to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made
              by it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined
              by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the
determination thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six months' notice to
the Borrower of the new basis.  The basis shall become effective on
the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank
during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
     Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable on
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  5
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall: (i) carry out Parts A.1 of the Project through
CS in coordination with the corresponding Agency "B" and Ministry "B";
(ii) carry out Part B of the Project through CS in coordination with
NIBJ in accordance with the Cooperation Agreement referred to in
paragraph (b) below; (iii) carry out Parts C.1 and C.4 of the Project
through CS in coordination with MOFP; (iv) carry out Parts C.2, C.3 and
C.5 of the Project through CS in coordination with OCG, the Ministries
and OAG, respectively; (v) cause each Agency "B" and Ministry "B",
as the case may be, to carry out its respective Modernization Plan
(under Part A.2 of the Project) in accordance with the corresponding
Framework Document; (vi) carry out Part D of the Project through CS in
coordination with ARP; and (vii) carry out Part E of the Project
through CS, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate technical, administrative, environmental and financial
practices, and in accordance with the Operational Manual, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) (ii)
above and for purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall enter into an agreement (the Cooperation Agreement)
with NIBJ under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
     (c)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above,
the Borrower shall not later than April 30 of each year of Project
implementation, starting in 1997, furnish to the Bank evidence,
satisfactory to the Bank, with respect to the availability of counter-
part funds required for the implementation of the Project for the
corresponding Fiscal Year.
     Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: (a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the
Project; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
     Section 3.04.  (a) The Borrower shall operate and maintain during
Project implementation the PCU with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank, including the responsibility to coordinate
and monitor the implementation of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall ensure at all times that the PCU is
headed by a Project director and assisted by staff in adequate
numbers, all with qualifications acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall operate and maintain the
Procurement/Contracting Units and Procurement Committees within the
Ministries with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Bank, including, inter alia, the responsibility to carry out the
procurement and contracting of the corresponding ministry.
     Section 3.06.  (a) The Borrower shall carry out an environmental
audit, satisfactory to the Bank, of those Agencies "C" (to be
privatized as referred to in Part B.2 of the Project), whose activities
in the opinion of the Bank may have a negative environmental impact, in
Page  6
accordance with the guidelines and procedures set forth in the
Operational Manual.
     (b)  The Borrower shall ensure that:
          (i)  each audit mentioned in (a) above includes a remediation
               plan for correcting environmental problems identified by
               such audit and a timetable, satisfactory to the Bank;
         (ii)  the relevant bidding documents and contracts for each
               Agency "C" to be privatized contain a provision: (A)
               indicating whether the Borrower and/or the new owner
               shall be responsible for carrying out the remediation
               plan referred to in (i) herein; and (B) requiring that
               said remediation plan be carried out by the Borrower
               and/or the new owner in accordance with the timetable
               referred to in (i) herein; and
        (iii)  appropriate measures are undertaken to ensure compliance
               with the provision referred to in (b) (ii) (B)  of this
               Section.
     Section 3.07.  (a) The Borrower shall not later than December 31 of
each year during Project implementation, starting in 1996, prepare and
furnish to the Bank an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, which
shall include, inter alia: (i) the activities to be carried out under
the Project and the list of Agencies "C" to be provided technical
assistance under Part B.2 of the Project, during the Fiscal Year
following the date of presentation of such plan; and (ii) a timetable
for implementing such action plan.
     (b)  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall implement each action plan referred
to in (a) above in accordance with the timetable referred to in such
paragraph.
     Section 3.08.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall not later than
April 30 and October 31 of each year of Project implementation,
starting in April 1997, prepare and furnish to the Bank semi-annual
progress reports of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may
reasonably request with respect to the progress made by the Borrower
in the carrying out of the Project (during the six months preceding
the date of presentation of the corresponding report) in accordance
with the action plan mentioned in Section 3.07 of this Agreement.
     Section 3.09.  (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall jointly review with
the Bank by not later than June 30 of each year during Project
implementation, starting in 1997, the progress made by the Borrower in:
(i) achieving the objectives of the Project; and (ii) carrying out the
Project in accordance with the action plan for the Fiscal Year in
question as referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement.  Each such
review shall also focus in discussing the corresponding progress reports
referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement.  As part of each such
review the Bank may require that the Borrower prepare an action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments in Project implementa-
tion.  If so, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish such action plan
to the Bank not later than thirty days after the conclusion of the
review in question and shall thereafter carry out, or cause to be
carried out, such action plan in accordance with its terms.
     (b)  The Borrower shall participate in a Project implementation
mid-term review to be held with the Bank as part of the 1999 annual
review.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
Page  7
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than three months after the end of
               each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment
               out of the Special Account was made, all records
               (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal
               Year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  That any Agency "B"  or Ministry "B" shall have failed to:
(i) comply with any of its obligations; and/or (ii) enforce its
rights, under the respective Framework Document.
     (b)  That the Borrower shall have failed to: (i) comply with any
of its obligations; and/or (ii) enforce its rights, under any
Framework Document.
     (c)  That the ODA Grant Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by October 1, 1996, or such later date as the Bank may
agree, provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall
not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank
that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
Page  8
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     (d)  That the EU Grant Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by April 1, 1997, or such later date as the Bank may
agree, provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     (e)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                    proceeds of any loan or grant (including the
                    ODA Grant and the EU Grant) made to the
                    Borrower for the financing of the Project
                    shall have been suspended, canceled or
                    terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
                    the terms of the agreement providing
                    therefor (including the ODA Grant Agreement
                    and the EU Grant Agreement); or
               (B)  any such loan shall have become due and payable
                    prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
               the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
               Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termi-
               nation or prematuring is not caused by the failure
               of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
               under the respective agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
               with the obligations of the Borrower under this
               Agreement.
     Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
     (b)  the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(e) (ii) of that Section.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the Operational Manual has been adopted by the Borrower;
     (b)  that the PCU has employed the staff for the positions listed
in the Implementation Letter;
     (c)  that the Cooperation Agreement has been entered into between
the parties thereto;
     (d)  that the action plan for Fiscal Year 1996 has been furnished
to the Bank as provided in Section 3.07 of this Agreement; and
     (e)  that the Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank the
evidence referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement for Fiscal
Year 1996.
     Section 6.02.  The date January 6, 1997 is hereby specified for
Page  9
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  The Minister of MOFP is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance and Planning
          30 National Heroes Circle
          Kingston 4
          Jamaica
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.          64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    JAMAICA
                    By  /s/ Omar Davies
                                                Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By  /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                               Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated            % of
                               (Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                          Dollars)        to be Financed
(1)  Goods
Page  10
     (a)  under Part               6,400,000 )    100% of foreign
          A.2 of the                         )    expenditures and
          Project                            )    85 % of local
                                             )    expenditures
     (b)  under other              5,700,000 )
          Parts of the                       )
          Project                            )
(2)  Consultants' Services
     (a)  under Part               1,650,000 )    100%
          A.1 of the                         )
          Project                            )
                                             )
     (b)  under Part               4,650,000 )
          A.2 of the                         )
          Project                            )
                                             )
     (c)  under other Parts        7,700,000 )
          of the Project                     )
          including Audit                    )
          Fees                               )
(3)  Training
     (a)  under Part               1,250,000 )
          A.2 of the                         )       100%
          Project                            )
                                             )
     (b)  under other                800,000 )
          Parts of the                       )
          Project                            )
(4)  Information Campaign            250,000         100%
                                  __________
          TOTAL                   28,400,000
                                  ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  the term "Training" means expenditures (other than for
consultants' services) incurred in connection with the training
activities to be carried out under the Project, including the
travel cost and per-diem of the trainees;
     (d)  the term "Audit Fees" means the fees to be paid to the
independent auditors each Fiscal Year during Project implementation
under Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (e)  the term "Information Campaign" means expenditures (other
than for consultants' services) incurred in connection with the
carrying out of the information campaigns under Parts B.3 and E.1
of the Project, including, inter alia, printed materials, radio
and television advertisement and seminars.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $2,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) (b),
Page  11
(2) (a), (2) (c) and (3) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after December 31, 1995;
     (b)  payments made for expenditures with respect to each Agency
"B" or Ministry "B" (under Category (2) (a) of the table in paragraph
1 of this Schedule) unless: (i) the respective Agency "B" or the
Borrower has appointed a chief executive officer with qualifications
acceptable to the Bank for such Agency  "B"; or (ii) the Borrower
has appointed a Permanent Secretary for the respective Ministry "B";
and
     (c)  payments made for expenditures with respect to each Agency
"B" or Ministry "B" (under Categories (1) (a), (2) (b) and (3) (a)
of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule) unless: (i) the
respective Agency "B" or Ministry "B" has: (A) met the applicable
condition referred to in paragraph (b) above; (B) prepared its
Modernization Plan and Medium-Term Financing Plan as referred to in
Part  A.1 of the Project; and (C) has duly signed and executed the
Framework Document; and (ii) a legal framework, satisfactory to the
Bank, is in full force and effect to enable the respective Agency
"B" or Ministry "B" to carry out its Modernization Plan.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under: (a) contracts for goods costing less than $50,000 equivalent;
(b) contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less
than $50,000 equivalent with the exception of the first two contracts
to be signed with consulting firms; (c) contracts for the employment
of individual consultants costing less than $20,000 equivalent with
the exception of the first two contracts to be signed with individual
consultants; and (d) Training and Information Campaign as set forth
in Categories (3) and (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule, respectively, all under such terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                       Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in its
efforts to: (a) improve the quality of service provided by  Agencies
"B" to their clients; (b) enhance the efficiency and effectiveness
of Ministries "B"; (c) reduce the size and scope of the public sector
by: (i) fostering private participation in the water and sewerage
sector; and (ii) privatizing Agencies "C" or contracting out their
services and/or management with the private sector; (d) enhance the
transparency and accountability in the area of procurement/contract-
ing of goods and services by the public sector; (e) strengthen the
Borrower's internal control and external audit functions; (f) enhance
and expand the coverage of the FMIS and HRMIS; and (g) design and
develop a follow-up stage of the Borrower's public sector modernization.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Modernization of Agencies "B" and Ministries "B"
1.   Provision of technical assistance to each Agency "B" and Ministry
"B" for the preparation of its: (a) Modernization Plan; (b) Medium-
Term Financing Plan; and (c)  Framework Document.
2.   Implementation of the Modernization Plan referred to in Part A.1
above by each Agency "B" or Ministry "B", including the provision of
technical assistance and training and the acquisition and utilization
of the goods required therefor.
Part B:     Restructuring and Privatization or Contracting out Services
            of Agencies "C"
1.   Design and implementation of a strategy to foster private
Page  12
participation in the water and sewerage sector in Jamaica.
2.   Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower in order to
assist the Borrower in the privatization of, or the contracting out
with the private sector of services and/or management of, Agencies
"C".
3.   Strengthening of the institutional capacity of NIBJ in order to
assist the Borrower in the implementation of the Privatization Policy
through the provision of technical assistance and training, the
acquisition and utilization of goods and the carrying out of an
information campaign.
Part C:     Procurement/Contracting, Internal Control and External
            Auditing
1.   Establishment and operation of the PPIU within MOFP with functions
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including the provision
of technical assistance and training and the acquisition and utili-
zation of goods required therefor.
2.   Strengthening of the OCG's institutional capacity through the
establishment of a secretariat with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank, including the provision of technical
assistance and training and the acquisition and utilization of the
goods required therefor.
3.   Strengthening of the implementation capacity of the Procurement/
Contracting Units and the Procurement Committees, through the provision
of technical assistance and training and the acquisition of the goods
required therefor.
4.   Establishment and operation of IAD within MOFP with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank (including the responsibility
to establish uniform operating standards for the carrying out of
internal audits within the Borrower's public sector), including the
provision of technical assistance and training and the acquisition
and utilization of the goods required therefor.
5.   Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the OAG, through
the provision of technical assistance and training and the acquisition
and utilization of the goods required therefor.
Part D:     Management Information Systems
     Further development of the FMIS and HRMIS and expansion of the
network of such systems within the Borrower's public sector, including
the provision of technical assistance and training and the acquisition
and utilization of the equipment required therefor.
Part E:     Information Campaign and Preparation of the Next Stage of
            the Borrower's Public Sector Modernization
1.   Carrying out of a campaign in order to inform the public with
respect to the activities to be carried out under the Project.
2.   Carrying out of a review of the role and functions of  Agencies
"A" and Ministries "A" within the public sector in order to design
and develop a follow-up stage of the Borrower's public sector
modernization.
3.   Provision of technical assistance and training to the PCU to
carry out its functions, including the acquisition and utilization
of the goods required therefor.
                                   * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                          Amortization Schedule
Page  13
                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (Expressed in Dollars)1
On each February 15 and August 15
     beginning February 15, 2002
     through February 15, 2013                   1,185,000
     On August 15, 2013                          1,145,000
______________________
1    The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be
     repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General
     Conditions.
                                  SCHEDULE 4
                     Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods
Part A:     General
     Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B:
     (a)  Grouping of contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more each.
     (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Limited International Bidding
     Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more but less than
Page  14
$150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.   International and National Shopping
     (a)  Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or more but less
than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and
3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:      Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts,
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to
the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement
of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions
of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract to be awarded under Parts B and C.1
of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other
standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each with the exception of the
first two contracts to be signed with consulting firms; or (b) contracts
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $20,000
equivalent each with the exception of the first two contracts to be
signed with individual consultants. However, said exceptions to prior
Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) the  qualifications and experience of the selected
consulting firms; (c) the qualifications and terms of conditions of
employment of selected individual consultants; (d) single-sourceselection of 
consulting firms; (e) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Bank; (f) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $50,000
equivalent or above; or (g) amendments to contracts for the employment
Page  15
of individual consultants raising the contract value to $20,000 equi-
valent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $1,000,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to
or exceed $5,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective amounts,
as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
Page  16
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
or
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account; or
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstand-
ing amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
