Page  1
July 2, 1998
Mr. Omar Davies H.E. 
Minister of Finance and Planning 
Ministry of Finance and Planning 
Kingston, Jamaica 
JAMAICA:
Loan 4083-JM (Public Sector Modernization Project)
Amendment of Supplemental Letter Re: Sections 1.02 
(b), (l), (o) 
and (p) and 6.01 (b) of the Loan 
Agreement
Dear Sir:
We address this to you in connection with the Loan Agreement for the above 
Project between Jamaica (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development  (the Bank), dated October 2, 1996 (the Loan Agreement) and in your 
capacity of representative of Jamaica under Section 7.01 of the Loan Agreement. More 
specifically, we are pleased to record hereby our acquiescence to the amendments 
proposed by the Borrower’s Government to the supplemental letter to the Loan Agreement 
of even date therewith (the Supplemental Letter). We concur with the Government’s 
anticipation that these amendments will facilitate use of Project funds (including 
Loan proceeds) on ministries and departments that have been subject to name changes or 
were not previously included in the Project.
Consequently, Annexes 1 through 3 to the Supplemental  Letter, are hereby 
amended as shown below:
(A)
Point 13 in Annex 1 is modified to read as follows:
“13.
Works Division (under the portfolio of the Ministry of Transport and 
Works).
(B)
Annex 1, List of Agencies “B”, is expanded to add some new points to the 
existing points therein, as follows:
“14.
Natural Resources Conservation Authority (under the portfolio of the 
Ministry of Environment and Housing).
15.
Land Development and Utilization Commission (under the portfolio of the 
Ministry of Environment and Housing).
16.
Rural Physical Planning Division (under the portfolio of the Ministry of 
Agriculture).
17.
Land Valuation and Estate Department (under the portfolio of the Ministry 
of Environment and Housing)”.
(C)
 Annex 2, List of Ministries “A”, is modified in some of the existing points 
therein or expanded by adding a new point 12 to such existing points, as follows:
 “3.
Ministry of Agriculture
 5.
Ministry of Education and Culture
 8.
Ministry of Mining and Energy
 9.
Ministry of Industry and Investment
10.
Ministry of National Security and Justice
11.
Ministry of Commerce and Technology
Page  2
12.
Ministry of Local Government and Community Development
13.
Ministry of Water
14.
Ministry of Transport and Works
15.
Ministry of Tourism”.
(D)
Annex 3, List of Ministries “B”, is modified in its point 2, as follows:
 “2. Ministry of Transport and Works”.
If you agree with the aforesaid amendments, please confirm your agreement 
on behalf of the Borrower by signing and dating  the attached form of confirmation. 
Upon receipt by us of said form, these amendments shall become effective retroactively 
as of March 17, 1998.
Sincerely,
/s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Director
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
JAMAICA:
By /s/ Omar Davies
       Authorized Representative
Date: July 23, 1998
