Docxmiit of
The World Bank
FOR OFIClIAL USE ONLY
R.pwt No. 12023
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
GUADALUPE IV HYDRO POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 1868-CO)
JUNE 18, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 1.2023
Type: PCR
Trade, Finance, Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and man be used by recipients oniv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit             Colombian Peso (Col$)
US$1.00               -   Col$ 42.06 (1979 appraisal
assumption of average)
US$1.00               -   ColS  47.10 (1980 average)
US$1.00               -   Col$ 100.10 (1984 average)
US$1.00               -   ColS 299.28 (1988 average)
US$1.00               =   Col$ 433.92 (12/31/1989)
us$1.00               -   100 USC
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
mete. (m)                       3.28 feet
kilometer (km)                  0.62 miles
square kilometer (sq km)        0.39 square miles
1 Kilovolt (kV)            =   1,000 volts (V)
1 kilowatt (kW)            =   1,000 watts (W)
1 megawatt (MW)            =   1,000 kilowatts
1 kilowatt-hour (kWh)      = 1,00  watt-hours (Wh)
1 gigawatt-hour (GWh)           1,000 kilowatt-hours
1 megavolt-ampere (MVA)   =   1,000,000 volt-amperes (VA)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EPM             -   Empresas P6blicas de Medellin
ISA             -   Interconexi6n Electrics S.A.
EEEB            -   Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
CORELCA         -   Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica
INCOMEX         -   Instituto Colombiano de Comercio Exterior
JNT             -   Junta Nacional de Tarifas
PCR             -   Project Completion Report
LRAIC           -   Long Range Average Incremental Cost
FISCAL YEAR
Fiscal year = Calendar year



FOR OFFICIAL. USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 18, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUB.'ECT:    Performance Audit Report on Colombia
GuadaluDe IV Hvdro Power Project (Loan 1868-CO)
Attached is the report entitled "Project Completion Report on
Colombia - Guadalupe IV Hydro Power project (Loan 1868-CO)" prepared by the Latin
America and Caribbean Regional Office. Part II was provided by the Borrower.
The Project Completion Repott provides an informative and comprehensive account
of Project implementation and achievements.
Overall physical completion was delayed by four years mainly due to
bottlenecks in the procurement process managed by a government agency. Savings
on one component were used to expand the project scope, but total cost was lower
than estimated. The project fell short of the goal of raising tariffs to ensure
financial soundness in the sector although the power utility of Medellin (the
Borrower) was one of the better managed in Colombia.
Overall, project performance is rated as satisfactory; sustainability
as likely and institutional development as partial.
No audit is plsnned.
This documrnt has a restricted distribution and my be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KO OFFXCIAL USE ONLY
-gu
GUADALUPE IV 8YDRO POWER PROJn C-T  LOAN 1868-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION UPORT
Table of Contents
Preface   ............................   ........................ . 1
Evaluation  Suiary  ......     ..........      ....    ................. .  Li
PART I.   PROJECT REVIEW FRoM BAIK'S PERSPECTIVE ............  ...          1
Project Identity ............................ ........            1
Project Background ................ ................. .           1
Project Objectives and Descriptin .. . .                         2
Project Design and Organization ......................           3
Project Implementation ............................. .            4
Project Results                 .....    6
Project Slistainability              .         ...               9
Bank Porformance .....................................           9
Borrower Performance        ...................                 10
Project Relationships               .         ...    11
Consulting Services ................              . .           11
Project Documentation and Data .......................          11
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE    ..       .         13
Project Objectives .                                            13
Project Implementation ...............................           14
Project Impect and Sustainability        . .        .6....       i
Bank Performance .      ....................................    16
EPM Porformance .......... .. .                                  17
Lessons Learned ......................................          17
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION ...............................          19
Related Bank Loans ...................................           19
Project Timetable . ...................................          21
Loan Disbursoments ...................................          22
Allocation of Loan Proceeds ..........................           23
Project Implemantation... . ......    .     ....... .. .        24
Project Costs and Financing ..........................          26
Project Results   .      ........    . .... ........... .       28
Status of Covenants         .      .     .............. .       31
Use of Bank Resources ...... ..... .....     .     .             34
AMEX
Financial Statements 1980-1989 .......................          35
Performance and Financial Indicators 1980-1989 .......          41
This document ha a retricted distribudon and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



COLOMBIA
GUADALUPE IV HYDRO POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1868-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Guadalupe IV
Hydro Power Project, for which Loan 1868-CO in the amount of US$125.0 million
was approved on June 10th, 1980. The loan was closed on December 31 , 1988,
three and a half years after the Appraisal estimate.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Trade, Finance,
Industry and Energy Division, Country Department III of the Latin America and
the Caribbean Regional Office and are based, inter ali, on the Staff
Appraisal Report; the Loan and Guarantee Agreements; supervision reports; a
final report prepared by Empresas PGblicas de Medellin (EPM); correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda. Parts I and
III of the PCR were sent to the Borrcwer for comments on January 24, 1992.
Part II of the report reproduces the comments received from EPM.



- ii -
,COLOMBIA
GUADALUPE IV HYDRO POWER PROJECT ILOAN 1868-0ao
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summarv
Proiect Objective.
1.        The objectives of tho project weres (a) to assist MEpresas PGblicas
do Mndellin (3PM) to meet the incremental power requirements in the expanding
urban area of Medellin, to extend the supply system to the rural areas and to
improve the reliability of supply in the existing network; (b) to assure the
completion of ZPM's regional control center as pa.-t of the dispatch system of
the integrated network; and (c) to raise EPM'* rates as necessary to insure
sufficient internal cash generation for investnwant and introduce an adjustment
in the rate structure to remove gradually the ox'.sting financial imbalances.
lmzl-n nation ExDerience
2.        The loan was approved  by the Board in June, 1980 and was signed in
December, 1980. This delay was caused by the necessary actions taken by the
Borrower to obtain the governmental authorizations and approval of the loan.
The Loan was declared effective in June, 1981, eight months later than
expected at appraisal. This delay was caused by difficulties in obtaining
complementary credits to finance those parts of the project not covered by the
Bank loan (turbines and generators) and time required to complete the project
engineering designs and infrastructure (access roads, bridges and working site
installations) (para. 5.01).
3.        The project was scheduled for completion by June 30th, 1985. The
power plant component of the project was comvleted by August 1985, about ten
months later than estimated in the appraisal. The original and added
transmission, substation and distribution components of the project were
completed with one to three years of delay. The control center component of
the project was completed by March 1988, four years later than estimated in
the appraisal. The main reasons for these delays were: (a) design changes made
and geological conditions found in the civil works construction of the power
plant; (b) changes in the initial description of the project and the scope of
work in the transmission, substation and distribution components of the
project; and (c) EPM's lack of experience in implementing a technologically
complex project like the energy control centor. The final cost of the project
was US$ 211.7 million, 7.3% below the estimated amount, even though important
additions were made to the physical scope of the project (paras. 5.02 to
5.04).
4.        The closing date of the project was extended twice. A first
extension of three years, from June 30th, 1985 to June 30th, 1988, was
approved in order to complete the project and as a response to the Borrower's
good administrative, technical and financial management. The second extension,
from June 30th to December 31st, 1988, was approved to allow the last
disbursemonts from the loan to be carried out without problems (para. 5.05).



- iii -
Prgoect Result.
5.        The objectives of the Project were substantially met, even though
the Project had major delays in its implameni:ation. The physical components of
the Project were completed, with some changes in the scope of work of
transmission lines, substations and the control center. The training objective
of the Project was fully accomplished. In the important objective of attaining
"sound sector financing through adequate tariff levels and economic rtructure
of tariffs to promote rational energy use", the Project fell short of what was
expected at appraisal, although some improvements were obtained during 1985-
1987 with the introduction of changes in tariff structure and levels. Low
electricity tariffs and cross-subsidies have been, and continue to be, the
moat critical factors in the weak financial position of the electric sub-
sector in Colombia, although it should be mentioned that EPM is one of the
best financially managed power utility companies in the country (paras. 6.J1
and 6.02).
6.        Comparing between the appraisal foracast and actual financial
statements and performance indicators for the period 1980-1989 shows that
EPM's performance during that period was reasonably good, although in certain
years and for some of the indicators the target values wera not met. The rate
of return on revalued assets was lower than expected for years 1981-1984 (7.6%
vs. 13% covenanted for 1982 was the worst result for the period), improving
thereafter to values above those covenanted for years 1985 and 1986. In 1987
the rate of return continued increasing to a record level of 13.8%, above the
target value of 122 for the Playas project. During years 1988 and 1989 the
rate of return declined to values below 10%. The self-financing ratio declined
from an initial value of 542 in 1980 to 22% in 1986 and recovered thereafter
to a level of 47% in 1989. The debt-service coverage ratio fluctuated between
1.5 and 1.7 in years 1980-1983, declining considerably thereafter to values of
1.2 in 1986 and 0.9 in 1989. If this situationi continues EPM would be in a
position of increasing difficulty to cover its debt service (para. 6.03).
7.        The project had a fairly good institutional impact in EPM. This
project was an additional step in the pattern followed on previous Bank loans,
to reinforce the organization and financial independence of the different
public services provided by EPM. The project made also an important
contribution to enhance the technical, administrative and managerial skills of
EPM's personnel, financing a comprehensive training program. The project will
undoubtedly make a contribution to increase the standard of living of
Colombian society through EPM's efficient public services (para. 6.10).
Sustainabilitv
8.        It is expected that the physical facilities and the institutional
framework put in place by the project will continue to provide tangible
benefits to EPM, and society in general, as the recipient of the expanded
services. These benefits would increase if EPM could manage better its
operational costs and limit its energy losses to more efficient levels. Maybe
the most risky component to the sustainability of the project is the tariff
policy. It is clear from the project results that electricity rates should be
set to levels consonant with the income requirements of EPH. If tariff levels
are not adequate the project benefits may not be sustained. On the other hand,
if EPM applies consistently the new electricity tariff policy of the



- iv -
goversment, it could reach a satisfactory rate level by 19O4-1995 (para.
7.01).
lindings and Lessons Learned
9.        Appraisal estimates of the implementation schedule for the main
physical composnents of the project were too optimistic (particularly
cosidering this wea a large hydroelectric power plant with technologically
complex systems like the control center).
10.       It is important to uncover, at the appraisal stage, potential
problems in procurement related to conflicts with local legislation, like
import permits and customs clearance.
11.       The procurement cycle, particularly from proposai evaluation to
contract effectiveness, should be shortened to avoid costly delays. Borrower
internal procedures in this matter should be carefully evaluated during
appraisal and corrections should be agreed upon before loan approval. In order
to improve the procurement process, use of standard bidding documents should
be a requiremexLt in future Bank operations in the power sector in Colombia.
12.       A satisfactory level of electricity rates is crucial for the
viability and sustainability of a power project and the financial soundness of
a utility. A tariff policy covenant with the government should be a
requirement and the Bank should enforce this covenant rigorously, This Loan
and previous Bank operations in Colombia for the power sector have shown that
the principal cause of the sector financial problems was electricity
underpricing.



CQLOBA
GUADALUPE IV HYDRO POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1868-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM DANM'S PERSPECTI-7
1.   Pro1ect Identity
Project Name:  Guadalupe IV Hydro Power Project
Loan Number :  1868-CO
RVP Unit    : Latin America and the Caribbean Region,
Country Department III
Country      : Colombia
Sector       :  Power
2.   Prolect Backzround
2.01      Sector development oblectives (at time of Project Appraisal).
Electric power was the fastest-growing form of energy use in Colombia. Its
share of total energy consumption had risen from 142 in 1960 to 23X in 1978.
Since 1971, production of electricity had been growing at an annual rate of
9.7?, i.e., one and a half tiwes as fast as the growth rate of GDP. To catch
up with rising power requirements, effective generating capacity was planned
to be increased by 115%, or about 4,300 MW, by 1985. Of this total, about
3,200 MW were already under construction. In recognition of the power sector's
important role in Colombia's development process, in mid-1970's the Government
and the main power companies established a frameworK for orderly and efficient
sector expansion, with ISA ( the national company) responsible for planning,
building and owning all plants of national interest. In 1979, the shareholders
of ISA expressed reservations about the concentration of almost 702 of planned
expansion in generating facilities through 1985 in ISA and the associated loss
of parity among themselves. These reservations gave rise to a proposal that
the four plants in ISA's investment program be constructed, owned and operated
by individual shareholders, The Empresas Pablicas de Medellin (EPM) was among
them.
2.02      Policy Context  Colombia is endowed with substantial primary energy
resources (hydropower, natural gas, petroleum and coal). Since 1965, output of
primary enxergy had lagged behind overall economic growth, mainly because of
declining crude oil production. Projections of Colombia's energy balance
indicated a rapidly growing deficit which was expected to reach significant
proportions in the mid-1980's in the absence of an aggressive energy
development program. The Government's objective was to overcome the energy
deficit by developing domestic energy sources and promoting their rational
use. Major projects were being executed and others prepared to expand
hydroelectric power generations, and incentives were being given to private
foreign companies for accelerated exploration and development of the country's
petroleum, natural gas and coal potential.



2.03      Linkages between Project. Sector and Macro Policy Obiectives. The
project objective to cover part of EPM's 1980-1984 electric power demand
requirements by extending the hydro power generation, transmission and
distribution systems, was in line with the sector and national policy
objectives of serving the increase energy requirements of the country to
foot.- economic growth, decrease the energy deficit and expand the use of
indig3nous natural resources.
3.   Proiect Obiectives and DescriDtion
3.01      Proiect Obiectives. The objectives of the project were to assist
EPM to: (a) meet incremental power requirements in the rapidly expanding urban
area of Medellin (330,000 consumers, including 60,000 new industrial,
commercial and residential users); (b) expand the supply system to the rural
areas to allow relatively inexpensive hydro-based electricity to replace
costly and unreliable diesel plant generation; (c) improve reliability of
supply in existing networks; (d) assure completion of its regional control
center as part of the dispatch system in the integrated network; (e) develop
the specialized technical expertise needed to cope with its increasingly
complex responsibilities; and (f) continue support of the Government's
objective of sound sector financing through adequate tariff levels and
economic structure of tariffs to promote rational energy use.
3.02      Proiect Components. The project comprises:
(a) Guadalupe IV Power Plant: 213 MW hydroelectric power plant, to be
constructed on the Guadalupe River, would operate under a gross
head of 417 m and generate an average of 1,077 GWh per annum. It
would consist of a power tunnel (6.5 km), two surface penstocks, a
surface power station with three vertical turbines and generators
(3x71 MW) and a substation with two banks of 3 single-phase
transformers of 59 MVA each;
(b) Transmission and Sub-transmission: 10 km of single-circuit 44 kV
lines, 30 km of single-circuit and 30 km of double-circuit 115 kV
lines, and 93 km of double-circuit 230 kV lines;
(c) Substations: expansion of 5-6 existing and construction of 4-5 new
substations, together with about 420 MVA of transformer capacity;
(d) Urban Power Distribution: renovation and expansion of EPM's urban
distribution network, consisting of about 129 km of 13.2 kV
overhead lines, 111 km of 13.2 kV underground cables, 2.2 km of 44
kV overhead cables, 111 km LV lines, 11 MVA in distribution
transformers and miscellaneous specialized equipment;
(e) Energy Dispatch Center: construction of a regional control center
which, together with similar centers to be constructed by EEEB and
CORELCA, would function as local satellites of ISA's national
energy control center;
(f) Training: specialized training program for EPM's professional staff
consisting of about 8 scholarships each year during 1981-1984 plus
special training for the staff of the power planning department.



- 3
4.   Proiect Desuin &nd Oreanization
4.01      Prolect Oriain. In 1978-1979 EPM prepared, with the assistance of
consultants, a power development program for 1980-1986 to meet its gross
energy requirements expected to grow at 8.5S per year from 3,639 GWh in 1978
to 7,000 GWh in 1986. The main components of the program were: (a) ongoing
works in generation (i.e. the almost completed Guatape It hydro plant - Loan
874-CO) and the Guadalupe IV and Las Playas hydroelectric power plants, for
which construction has not yet started; (b) Ongoing works in transmission and
distribution and a substantial retwork expansion plan (transmission,
substations and distribution); and (c) studies of potential hydro developments
in Antioquia, a high-voltage (230 kV) transmission network study and a
training program. In coordination with ISA, the program contemplated also the
construction of a regional control center to be part of the national energy
dispatch center.
4.02      Proiect Preparation. The feasibility study of Guadalupe IV hydro
power plant was developed by EPM with the assistance of consultants Consul-
tores T6cnicos Ltda. and Mejia y Millan Ltda. (Colombia). The study was found
to be generally acceptable, except that tunnel depth was not optimized at time
of project appraisal. Because of the obvious benefits to the interconnected
system of completing the Guadalupe IV power plant as soon as possible, it was
agreed that EPH should: (a) locate the tunnel 50 m lower than design -an
optimum condition- assuming a completely lined tunnel; (b) continue with
exploratory drilling to complete the assessment of the geological conditions;
and (c) prepare bid documents allowing adjustments in case changes were
required. Cost estimates were sufficiently conservative to allow for some
design changes during construction.
4.03      Under the Guatape II Loan EPM, with the assistance of consultants
from Westinghouse, executed a study for the expansion of its sub-transmission
and distribution systems. The results of this study were used by EPM to design
the network included in its 1980-1986 expansion program. The design was
tochnically simple and followed American standards, except for the underground
portion of the network in the center of Medellin. Part of the transmission and
distribution facilities included in the 1980-1986 program were to be financed
by the proposed Bank ¾oan.
4.04      ISA, in coordination with its shareholders (EPM among them) and
with the assistance of consultants (System Control of USA in cooperation with
Sistecom of Colombia), prepared the basic studies for the dispatch system for
the interconnected network. The studies envisioned the construction of a
national dispatch center and, initially, three regional cont:ol centers (for
CORELCA, EBEED and EPM networks). The design and construction of EPM's regional
control center would be financed by the proposed Bank loan.
4.05      It is a common practice in the Colombian power sector to use local
engineering firms to assist the staff of the electric utility companies as
needed for detailed design, procurement and construction supervision. To
adequately supervise the performance of consultants and reduce reliance on
outside service where possible, funds were included in Bank loan 1725-CO to
ISA (San Carlos II) for advance of specialized training of EPM's technical
personnel. Loan 1868-CO was to complement this effort by financing part of
EPM's training program (8 scholarships per year during 1981-1984 and 3-4



professional group trips for technical visits to other public utilities in
Latin America and elsewhere to update the4c experience).
4.06      Aiiraigal and Nggotiations. The project was appraised by a Bank
mission which visited Colombia in November/December of 1979. Negotiations
where beld in Washington D.C., during the week of April 28 - May 5, 1980, with
a Colombian delegation led by Dr. Virgilio Barco, Ambassador of Colombia to
the United States, and Dr. Diego Call., General Manager of EPM.
4.07      Proiect Organization. EPM's management and staff were (and still
continue to be), in general, well qualified and competent and the engineering
and planning personnel had considerable experience in project management and
implementation. EPM's finance and management staff was also generally well
qualified and capable. EPH's former practice to handle the supervision and
administration of projects was not applied to Guadalupe IV; the project was
implemented and managed by a specific new Division in EPM with an ad-hoc
organization, with satisfactory results. This same approach has been applied
to EPM's other projects, still in execution, financed by the Bank.
4.08      The project scope, design and organization were conceptually clear
and the role and responsibility of the Borrower were well understood. On the
other hand, the roles of the other parties involved were not clearly stated
nor fully understood. The project was, in general, well prepared and followed
standard engineering practices. Two limitations in project conception, the
insufficient geological investigations for the design of the civil works of
the power plant and the lack of experience in implementing energy control
systems, proved to be the main causes of project execution delays.
5.   Proiect Implementation
5.01      Loan Sianature, Effectiveness and Proiect Start-up. The loan was
approved by the Bank's Board on June 10, 1980, signed on December 19, 1980,
and declared effective on June 29, 1981 (eight months later than expected at
appraisal). The first disbursement from the loan took place in December 1981,
one year after the loan was signed. Much of the time between the Bank approval
of the loan and the start-up of the project was expended by EPM to obtain the
necessary authorizations and approval of the loan by the different levels of
the Colombian Government, and to negotiate and secure the complementary
credits to finance those parts of the project not covered by the Bank loan
(i.e. the hydraulic turbines and the generators of the power plant). Final
design and infrastructure implementation (roads, bridges and site
conditioning) for the project were also done during 1980 and 1981.
5.02      Implementation Schedule. The main project component, the Guadalupe
IV power plant, was originally scheduled to be completed by mid-1984, and the
tran.mis&ion and distribution components by the end of the same vear. The
dispatch control center was scheduled for completion also by mid-1984. The
majority of the project components were not completed as scheduled. The power
plant was completed by August 1985, about eight months later than estimated in
the appraisal. The original and expanded transmission, substation and
distribution components of the project were completed with 1-3 years delay and
the control center was completed by March 1988, four years late. The main
reasons for the delays were the following:



(a) Contractual and construction problems in the main civil works
for the water conduction, penstock and the power plant, due to
increase in the scope of work, changes in design, land slides
and substantial variations in the estimated geological
conditions of the sit..;
(b) Contractual and construction problem. with the suppliers of
the hydraulic turbines and generators and with soe of the
supplie..s of auxiliary and control equipment for the power
plant;
(c) Increase in the scope of the transomission, substations and
distribution components of the project, to include additional
work correspording to the expansion program for 1985-1988 as a
complement to the 1980-1984 program, originally included in
the project. The financing of these additions from the Loan
was possible by savings in the estimated cost of the power
plant component of the project;
(d) Prolonged periods of time taken by EPM in bid preparation,
evaluation, contract negotiation, and legal and administrative
procedures for contract effectiveness;
(a) Prolonged periods of time required by EPM to get import
authorizations by the Instituto Colombiano de Comercio
Exterior (INCOMEX). Some import licenses took several months
to be obtained; and
(f) EPM's lack of experience in implementing a technologically
complex project like the energy control center. The control
center project suffered extended delays in all phases of its
implementation; in the contract negotiation and effectiveness,
in the functional design, in manufacturing and integration and
in the installation and testing.
5.03      Procurement. Although, in general, the procurement of goods and
services was carried out by EPM without major problems, some difficulties in
the process caused dalays in the execution of the project. The main sources of
these difficulties were the followings
(a) Lack of standardization and the inclusion in the bid documents
of many EPM internal legal and administrative requirements to
the bidders;
(b) Incompatability between some of the Bank rules for procurement
with provisions of some internal Colombian legislation;
(c) EPM's internal procedures for bid evaluation, contract award
and nagotiation, and the legal and administrative requirements
for contract effectiveness; and
(d) The requirement by the Instituto Colombiano do Comercio
Exterior (INCOMEX) that EPM obtain import licenses for all
goods of foreign origin.



5.04      Proiect Costs. The estimated cost of the project at appraisal was
US$228.3 million, from which US$155.2 million (about 68%) corresponded to the
foreign exchange component. The Bank loan of US$125 million represented about
80S of this foreign component. The final cost of the project was US$211.7
million, or about 7.3% cost underrun. The real savings exceed this figure,
considering that substantial additions were made in the physical scope of the
transmission, substations, distribution and control center components of the
project. These gains are attributable mainly to the combined influence of
international competitive bidding and the weak world markets for electro-
mechanical equipment and construction contracting, during the recession years
of 1982-83.
5.05      Disbursements. The Loan's estimated and actual disbursements, as
shown in Table 3 of Part III, reflect a slow implementation of the project, in
particular in the first two years. The original closing date was June 30,
1985, but after two extensions, the Loan was closed on December 31, 1988. The
Bank honored disbursement applications received until March 30, 1989.
5.06      Loan Allication. The original and actual disbursements by category
are shown in Table 4 of Part III. The original allocation was revised to
reflect changes in the Project Description, creation and closing of a special
account, cancellation of a small amount because of mis-procurement (US$0.45
million), and other minor adjustments in implementation of the project. The
main reallocation of funds was the transfer of the savings from the power
plant (Categories 1 and 2) to the transmission and substations (Category 3)
and the control center (Category 4).
6.   Proiect Results
6.01      Meeting the Proiect Obiectives. The objectives of the Project were
substantially met, despite substantial delays in project implementation. The
physical components of the Project were completed, with some changes in the
scope of work of transmission lines and substations and limitations in the
working of the control center. The training objective of the Project was fully
accomplished; more than 50 professionals were trained in specialized areas of
the electric utility business. However, the Project fell short of expectations
in meeting the important objective of attaining "sound sector financing
through adequate tariff levels and economic structure of tariffs to promote
rational energy use". Although some improvements were obtained during 1985-
1987 with the introduction of changes in tariff structure and levels, low
electricity tariffs and cross-subsidies have been, and continue to be, the
most critical factors in the weak financial position of the electric sub-
sector in Colombia. The Bank seems to have been unable to press the Borrower
sufficiently to fulfill this objective, a problem suffered in other Colombian
power projects as well.
6.02      Physical Results. As was mentioned earlier, the physical targets of
the Project were met but with some delays. Guadalupe IV power plant was
completed eight months behind the appraisal forecast. Large cost savings were
obtained in the electro-mechanical equipment of the power plant, and these
avings were used to extend the scope of work in the transmission and
substation components of the project. Table 5 of Part III shows the
implementation schedule of the different parts of the project as compared with



the appraisal. The delay in the implementation of the principal components of
the project did not seriously affect EPM's electricity service to customers
because the projected system demand did not materialize. The annual increase
in system demand for the period 1981-1987 was about 6%, 3.5 points below the
forecasted value of 9.52. By 1986-1988, Guadalupe power plant was operating
commercially, contributing roughly with 1,000 GWh per year to the system.
6.03      Financial Performance. Section 7 of Part III includes comparative
tables of appraisal forecast and actual income statements, sources and
applications of funds, balance sheets and performance indicators for the
period 1980-1989. The tables show that EPM's performance during that period
was generally satisfactory, although in certain years and for some of the
indicators the target values were not met. The rate of return on revalued
assets was lower than covenanted for 1981-1984 (7.6% vs. 13% for 1982 was the
worst result for the period), improving thereafter to levels exceeding the
agreed targets for 1985 and 1986 (end year of the appraisal forecast). In 1987
the rate of return increased to a record level of 13.8%, above the covenanted
level of 12Z for the Playas project. During 1988 and 1989 the rate of return
declined to values below 10%. The self-financing ratio declined from an
initial value of 54% in 1980 to 22% in 1986 and recovered thereafter to a
level of 47% in 1989 (Loan 1868-CO did not have a self-financing ratio
covenant). The debt-service covrerage ratio fluctuated between 1.5 and 1.7 in
1980-1983, declining considerably thereafter to values of 1.2 in 1986 and 0.9
in 1989. If this situation c ntinues, EPM will face increasing difficulties in
covering its debt service.
6.04      The income statements show sales consistently below expectations
and greater-than-estimated operational expenses, throughout the period. As was
explained in paragraph 6.02, the actual demand was below forecast (6% vs. 9.5%
annual growth), which was reflected in EPM's failing to meet its yearly sales
target. Although electricity rates were raised substantially during the period
1980-1989 (see paragraphs 6.06 and 6.07), they were not sufficient to offset
the operating costs increases due mainly to local inflation and more-than-
expected devaluation of the Colombian peso. Total energy losses were above 20%
for most of the period, contributing undoubtedly to EPM's operational costs.
6.05      With the exception of 1983, from 1980 to 1984 the end-year accounts
receivable, as a percentage of sales, were above the 19.2% expected at SAR
(the largest value was 24.7% in 1982). Thereafter the value declined steadily
to a value of 8.92 in 1989 (the estimated value for the Playas project,
financed by the Bank, is 17%). These figures show that EPM has put in place a
very effective billing and collecting organization.
6.06      Electricity Rates. During the period of project implementation, the
Junta Nacional de Tarifas (JNT) introduced major changes in tariff policy. In
October of 1984 JNT established a new uniform tariff structure to be applied
nation-wide. The main characteristic of this tariff structure was the
introduction of monthly fixed charges for electricity depending on the socio-
economic stratum and consumption level in which a household was classified.
EPM put into effect this new structure at the beginning of 1985. In connection
with the Power Sector Adjustment Loan, that was being prepared by the Bank by
the time, JNT issued Resolution 086 in November of 1986. In this resolution
the Government assumed control of the tariff policy and established the Long
Run Average Incremental Cost (LRAIC) as a benchmark which the power companies



- 8 -
should gradually approach in establishing their electricity tariffs. The
resolution also established monthly adjustments to cover inflation and
sectoral cost variations (power sector cost index).
6.07      The figures shown in the income statements for EPM's average yearly
electricity rate, expressed in current Colombian cents, do not give a clear
picture of the real tariff situation. Taking into account the internal
inflation, in constant 1980 Col$, the average tariff had an increase of
slightly over 90% during the period 1980-1989 (inflation factor of 5.7). This
figure gives a yearly average increase in tariffs of 7.4% in real terms for
the period considered. On the other hand, the current tariff values expressed
in USC show a constant increase from 2.23 in 1980 to a peak value of 3.07 in
1984, declining to 2.94 in 1885 and 2.86 in 1986, and regaining an increasing
pattern thereafter to reach a value of 3.0 USC in 1989. The calculated values
of the LRAIC at the interconnection level - generation (sales to ISA) and at
the distribution level (general purchases from EPM), for the expansion plan
1987-1999, were 4.5 and 6.0 USC, respectively. It can be seen that EPH's
tariffs were well below the LRAIC for EPM's system during the whole period of
project implementation.
6.08      Rate of Return. The rate of return on investment associated with
EPM's development program in generation, transmission and distribution for the
period 1980-1988, computed on the same basis as in the SAR, is about 9% (see
Section 7 in Part 1II). The value of the IRR in the SAR was 7%. Although 9% is
below the 12% presumed opportunity cost of capital, it is important to note
that the IRR computation, from 1988 onward, only reflects the result of
extrapolating indefinitely the average end-1988 electricity rates of Col$ 8.97
(USC 3.0) for the general consumer and Col$ 1.84 (USC 0.6) for bulk sales to
ISA, in the calculation of the benefits. EPM could achieve an IRR of 12% -and
approach its LRAIC- if it raises electricity rates by 10% in real terms each
year from 1991 to 1995. Our expectation, as of end 1991, is that EPM will make
some real increases, but not enough.
6.09      Impact of the Proiect. It is clear that the project made an
important contribution to EPM's main objective to provide adequate electric
service to its customers. The physical components of the project had a fairly
good impact in relieving EPM's investment requirements for its expansion plans
in generation, transmission and distribution. The hydro-electric generation of
Guadalupe IV and the extension of the transmission and distribution systems
have contributed to the replacement of expensive thermal generation of
electricity in the rural areas, in line with the general policy of the
country. The implementation of the regional control center for EPM's system
has also had a positive impact in the economic operation of the interconnected
network, contributing to the general operational efficiency of the sector.
6.10      The project had a fairly good institutional impact on EPM. This
project was an additional step in the pattern followed under previous Bank
loans, to reinforce the organization and financial independence of the
different public services provided by EPM. The comprehensive training program
achieved this by enhancing the technical, administrative and managerial skills
of EPM's personnel. The project will undoubtedly make a contribution to
increasing the standard of living of the Colombian society through EPM's
efficient public services.



-9-
7.   Proi1ct Sustainabilitv
7.01      Given the generally good results that the project has ahown during
the implmentation period and the initial years of operation, it is expected
that the physical facilities and the institutional framework put in place willl
continue to provide adequate and tangible benefits to EPM, and the society ln
general, which is the recipient of the expanded services. These benefits would
increase if IPM could manage better its operational costs and limit its energy
losses to more efficient levels. Maybe the most risky component to the
sustainability of the project is the tariff policy. It La clear from the
project results shown in the previous section that electricity rates should be
set to levels consonant with the income requirements of EPM. If tariff levels
are not adequate the project's benefits will not be sustained. On the other
hand, if BPM applies consistently the new electricity tariff policy of the
government, it could reach an adequate rate level by 1994-1995, near its
LRAIC.
S.   Ban     _ Performance
C.01      Bank participation in the project was generally satisfactory. The
Bank assisted ZPM during project preparation in identifying areas that
required further analysis and contributed to improving the engineering design
of the main physical components of the project. The Staff Appraisal Report
provided suitable and valuable information for project implementation,
although the evaluation of power sector policies and the institutional
situation of the different parties involved was not comprehensive enough to
uncover the organizational and regulatory weakness of the sector.
8.02      During the nine years of project Implementation, there were nine
Bank supervision missions. Although this figure is le  than ideal, the
project had only minor problems and the Borrower responded promptly and
satisfactorily to project and Dank requirements. The supervision effort was
more interse in the early stages of the project, when start-up and construc-
tion problems were more common. In the later years and at certain times Bank
travel to Medellin was banned because of security concerns. The Bank was
flexible in its approval of changes in the project scope and allocation of
funds, in the creation of a special account under the loan and in allowing
extensions to the closing date of the project.
8.03      The Bank was not very effective in pressing the Borrower and the
Government to clear the bottlenecks created by INCOMEX and customs to imports
of foreign goods for the project. The Bank also did not press EPM sufficiently
to shorten the procurement period between proposals evaluation and contract
signing and effectiveness, and finally it did not enforce more rigorously the
use of standard bidding documents. All these deficiencies have contributed to
delays in project imp'ementation.
8.04      Although Guadalupe IV project shares some of the Bank's performance
successes and failures as reported in OED's document "Colombia: The Power
Sector and The World Bank, 1970-1987", it should be pointed out that RPM was
an exception to the sector's generally unsatisfactory performance.



- 10 -
8.05      The main lessons learned are summarized below:
(a) Appraisal forecasts of the implementation schedule for the
main physical components of the project show a continued
tendency to be too optimistic (particularly considering this
was a large hydroelectric power plant with technologically
complex systems like the control center).
(b) It is important to uncover, at the appraisal stage, potential
problems in procurement related to conflicts with local
legislation, like import permits and customs clearance.
(c) The procurement cycle, particularly from proposal evaluation
to contract effectiveness, should be shortened to avoid costly
delays. EPM's internal procedures in this matter should have
been carefully evaluated during appraisal and corrections
agreed upon before loan approval.
(d) It is essential to ensure adequate levels of electricity rates
for the viability and sustainability of power projects and the
financial soundness of power utilities. A tariff policy
covenant with the government should be a requirement and the
Bank should enforce this covenant rigorously.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.01      Generally, EPM's performance during project preparation and
implementation was satisfactory. The Bank's favorable expectations at
appraisal, due to EPM's experience with Bank loans, materialized. The ad-hoc
division in charge of project implementation was well staffed and had the
required material resources to accomplish its task. Managerial and financial
support for the project was adequate. During the project implementation there
were improvements in the organization and the structure to deal with the four
different public services provided by EPM. The main shortcoming was the delay
in the implementation of the project: the project started almost a year later
than expected due to the problems in securing complementary credits and
governmental approvals; further delays resulted from the inherent complexity
of large hydroelectric projects, and inefficient handling of procurement,
contracting, import permits and customs clearances by EPM. Improvements in
these areas are necessary for a better execution of future projects.
9.02      It is important to note the relatively good performance of EPM in
comparison to the other Colombian power utility companies for which the Bank
was also providing financial assistance. Neither the sector organization nor
the company ownership were different in this case. We cannot see other reasons
for this performance, without going into a deeper analysis, than EPM's
management capability and continuity, its relative ample independence and low
political interference, and the good "institutional tradition" of the company.



- 11 -
10. Proiect Relationships
10.01          Project relationships between all oarties involved were good
in general terms. EPM's management and project personnel were in permanent
contact with the Bank in relation to the progress of the project,
implementation matters and compliance with loan covenants. Bank relations with
the Government and power sector officials were open and cordial, contributing
to meeting the project targets. EPH's relations with customs officials and the
Instituto Colombiano de Comercio Exterior (INCOMEX), in charge of issuing
import licenses, were not very effective, and was one of the main causes of
the delays in the implementation of the project.
11. Consultina Services
11.01     Seven consulting firms participated in preparing and implementing
the project. The planning, engineering design and supervision of the
construction of civil works and the erection of the power plant were carried
out by a group of three Colombian consulting firms with ample experience in
hydro-electric power development. EPM rating of these consulting services was
very good. A joint venture of a Canadian company and a Colombian one was in
charge of the transmission expansion planning study and the definition of the
technical characteristics of the electrical system. These consultants made
important contributions to improving EPM's capabilities in electric system
planning and analysis providing state-of-the-art computer models and programs.
EPM had the technical support of a specialized American consulting company in
the area of energy management centers for the planning, functional
specifications, equipment evaluation and implementation of the regional
control center. Although the services provided by the consultants were
considered very valuable, the complex nature of the project and the
technological changes occurring during the period of implementation
contributed to the substantial delays in the project.
11.02     In general terms the main contractors and suppliers of materials
and equipment for the project complied satisfactorily with the contractual
obligations and the physical scope of works. As was mentioned previously some
changes in design and delays were presented particularly in the civil works of
the power plant but in all cases the problems were solved in a technical and
economical manner.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.01          All project technical documentation, financial information on
EPM, and economic and statistical information of the country, available during
preparation and appraisal, were satisfactory. The Staff Appraisal Report
provided a suitable and valuable framework to both the Bank and the Borrower
to supervise the implementation of the project. The Loan and Guarantee
Agreements included appropriate provisions to keep the Borrower's financial
and technical operations on track and were flexible enough to allow the
introduction of desirable changes in the project during implementation.
Project reporting by the Borrower was timely and relevant. A project
completion report was prepared by EPM, stating their point of view on project



- 12 -
execution and results (see Section II). Although the Project Files were
generally well kept, some information required for PCR preparation was
difficult to find.



- 13 -
COLOMBIA
GUADALUPE IV HYDRO POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1868-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Unofficial Translation)
1.   Proiect Obiectives
The project objectives were achieved, and the results even exceeded
the expectations of the SAR, including those related to tariffs, an area in
which substantial progress was made.
With respect to the physical aspects of the project, the components
in the areas of transmission, substations, distribution, and the Control
Center experienced substantial increases, due to savings in the purchase of
the Guadalupe Plant equipment, and as a result of the arrangements reached
with the Bank in terms of allocation and availability, which led to full
utilization of the project funds.
In terms of tariffs, we should like to stress the efforts that were
initiated in the past decade and contributed to EPM's financial solidity;
while the Bank's comments on this point in Part I are appropriate, they do not
sufficiently stress the significance of the progress made.
Decree No. 2545 of 1984, setting up the uniform tariff structure,
and Resolution 86 of 1986, providing for its implementation, were enacted at a
time when the rates situation in the electricity sector was one of total
anarchy. These two pieces of legislation represented a major advance in the
approach to tariff management, although the adjustment program provided for in
Resolution 86 proved inadequate in light of the sector's financial
requirements.
In any case, the tariff adjustments of the eighties were reflected
in increases of over 7% per annum in real terms, which, compared with GDP
growth over the same period, an average of 3.5% per annum, gives an idea of
the magnitude of the effort made.
In EPM's case, the tariff adjustments of the past decade resulted
in an increase in the average residential tariff from 30X of its LRAIC
(through 1980) to just over 512 in 1991. In the nonresidential sector, the
tariff is 6 points higher than the LRAIC, against 60% at the beginning of the
eighties.
The present difficulties have to do with the phasing out of sub-
sidies to low-income users. This problem cannot be solved exclusively through
tariff adjustment, as this would mean drastically restricting such users'
access to electricity supply. The present adjustment program, included in
Resolution 90 of 1990, would make it possible to bring residential rates to



- 14 -
suitable levels in relation to the CIPLP. However, it does not seem feasible
for this program to be applied without being accompanied by a provision for
low-cost energy alternatives.
2.        Proiect Imolementation
2.1       Loan Signatute and Effectiveness
In approaching all the formalities that had to be completed prior
to signature of the agreement with the Bank, EPM found the various Government
agencies (CONPES, DNP, Minhacienda) to be very cooperative and flexible, to
the extent that all loan-related authorizations were granted between August
and December 1980. This was not the case with the formalities prior to
effective-ness, which had to be postponed from March to June 1981, since the
Government did not accord this matter the priority that was repeatedly
requested, and also because of the way the disbursements program was
structured.
As with the loan negotiations and procedures, EPM had no difficulty
in obtaining the complementary foreign-exchange financing for the project.
Specifically, the external loans for turbines and generators
contracted following international public bidding were awarded in November
1980 and February 1981. External credits were also negotiated with commercial
banks in June 1979 and October 1980.
Although management of the complementary credits required a great
deal of dedication on the part of the financial staff, this did not affect
project development, at least not at the initial stage. In addition, sub-
sequent delays in legalization and implementation of the turbine and generator
credits did not seriously affect the project implementation schedule.
In EPM's view, the long delay between signature (June 1980) and the
first disbursement (December 1981) was due in part to the need to sign in
advance in order to open the bid proceedings with the assurance of Bank
financing, rather than being attributable to imperfections in the estimates or
to other causes such as the status of the designs, etc. On this point, there
is a need to find mechanisms for adjusting the time periods between
availability of the disbursements and the actual need for them, which would
also be reflected in savings on commitment fees.
2.2       Implementation Schedule
In general terms, the original timetable included in the loan
application to the Bank indicated that activities related to the Guadalupe
plant would start in January 1980 and end in October 1984. In actuality,
these activities started in September 1980 and ended in August 1985. We would
stress that the time lag between estimated and actual time was only eight
months, despite the physical, technical and contractual difficulties that
arose during construction. This reflects the productive effort made by EPM in
monitoring and executing the works within the time frame originally fixed for
this part of the project.



- 15 -
The increase in the scope of the transmission and distribution
works had a greater influence than other causes of a procedural nature in
extending the implementation period of this part of the ptoje't to three years
beyond the initial closing date.  The supplementary works were added on from
time to time, as surplus loan amounts became available, which made the bidding
and contracting process repetitive, slow, and difficult to manage. The lack
of standardized documents at EPM and the number of internal and legal.
procedures associated with each process helped aggravate these difficulties.
With respect to the Energy Control Center, EPM feels that the
efforts and long time devoted to its planrning and development have been offset
by the characteristics of the goods and services purchased. What happened was
that the difference between the technological scenario at the end of the
seventies, when the estimates were prepared, compared to the rapid
developments of the eighties, led to major delays in this part of the project.
It became necessary at the different stages to adjust the conditions to take
advantage of the new advances being made. It is important to mention that
through the development of the Control Center, EPM obtained the advice of
international experts in this type of project, whose participation and
guidance played a fundamental role in the system's installation and entry into
operation.
Thanks to the Bank's cooperation in connection with disbursement
extensions and other procedures, EPM today has a Control Center with excellent
and modern specifications that are even superior to the original estimates.
2.3       Financial Performance
During the period of project implementation, EPM's financial
performance was generally satisfactory, as the Bank notes in its comments.
Despite having to cope with levels of inflation and depreciation higher than
those estimated in the SAR, EPM always recorded profits (before and after
interest) only slightly below estimate in the first years, and very adequate
in the later years, with a definite upward trend.
A factor contributing to those results was the tariff increase,
which was much higher than that estimated in the SAR, making it possible to
alleviate the impact of the greater demand for energy and the substantial
increase in costs. In 1986, EPM's average tariff was double the estimated
rate.
Throughout the entire period, EPM's management was based on
principles of austerity and cost rationalization. The increase in its costs
was largely due to inflation and the company's own growth.
As part of its cost management policies, major programs were
initiated during the decade to reduce energy losses and keep them under
control, which in effect was done, despite the rate increases, which in other
areas of the counity led to an upswing in nontechnical losses. Since 1987,
energy losses have been kept below 20%, and efforts continue to be made to
contain them as much as possible. The work of the Energy Loss Division, set
up for this purpose in 1989, has helped to keep losses down, in line with the
goals set by the National Government.



- 16 -
An analysis of the debt service coverage ratio, which fluctuated
between 1.7 and 1.1 during 1980-88 and dropped to 0.9 in 1989, reveals that a
heavy program of repayments was initiated during the period, related not only
to the Guadalupe IV Project, but also to the Playas and Riogrande projects,
also under construction. Added to this was the influence of the marked
depreciation of the Colombian peso (and that of the dollar in some years
against other currencies owed by EPM) on the service of the foreign currency
debt and the ISA investments, which are included in the calculation of the
debt service ratio, based on the Bank's methodology, and were also higher in
certain years.
This indicator has been showing signs of recovery since 1990, and
current expectations are that this trend will persist over the short and
medium term, with EPM finding itself more and more favorably placed to service
its debt.
3.        ProLect Impact and Sustainability
The Guadalupe IV Project, with its wide variety of investments, may
be regarded as one of the major ventures undertaken by EPM. The expansion of
infrastructure at all levels of operation: generation, transmission,
substations and distribution, and implementation of the Energy Control Center,
combined with the experience acquired and the training programs initiated, are
elements that will continue to have an impact on both the enterprise and the
community.
A specific step taken to enhance the sustainability of project
implementation was to set up executing units within EPM. In addition, with
Bank cooperation, EPM underwent administrative reform, during the course of
the project, with a Gerencia being established for each of its services.
4.        Bank Performance
EPM wishes to emphasize all the assistance it received from the
Bank, especially at the project preparation stage and in all aspects of the
operational management of the loan. The Bank made it possible for the funds
to be fully utilized, and even though it was demanding in the matter of the
bid documents, it was flexible in all aspects of loan administration:
procedures, disbursements, extensions, resource allocation, etc.
The Bank played an important role in improving many procedures,
especially providing excellent guidance in the management and processing of
financial information. There was an adequate number of supervision missions,
and these generally made valuable contributions toward ensuring good technical
and financial performance. In the particular case of development of the
Control Center, the Bank's participation in the technical aspects was limited,
as was that of EPM, by lack of experience and the fast pace of technological
advances over the decade.



- 17 -
5.        EPM Performance
Generally speaking, the administrative and technical personnel
responded well to the requirements of the project and of the Bank at all
stages, from preparation to completion of the works. The experience acquired
at all levels of the organization had a multiplier effect on the other
projects initiated later in the other services (Water Supply and Sewerage and
Telecommunications).
During this project, EPM's administrative structure was
reorganized, with the creation of three Gerenclas Auxillares for each of the
services provided by the enterprise: Water Supply and Sewerage, Energy and
Telecommunications. This new structure, actively promoted by the Bank, has
undoubtedly contributed to EPM's progress.
In addition, the Guadalupe IV Division was established, to handle
the development of the works on the generation side and coordinate implemen-
tation of the other components and relations with the Bank on the technical
aspects. However, the absence of centralized management of the bidding and
contracting processes created many difficulties and problems at all levels,
and particularly vis-a-vis the Bank.
EPM was not very efficient in adopting uniform standards on
simplifying procedures, a situation aggravated by the variety of investments
to be made and the number of persons involved in the process (technicians,
engineers, attorneys, financial experts, etc.) as well as the need to comply
with certain legal formalities.
In conclusion, the greatest difficulties lay in the procedural
aspects, and, contrary to the Bank's opinion, EPM believes that in seeking
financing (both from the Bank and from complementary sources), it found open
doors on both the local and the international scene. The other lenders were
also agile and flexible in managing their loans.
LESSONS LEARNED
During project implementation, EPM had direct and personal
relations with the Bank. This smoothed the way for the necessary adjustments
that would ensure full utilization of the loan. Toward the end of the decade,
those relations were affected by a hardening of the Bank's policies toward the
Colombian electricity sector, leading it to approach the various problems on a
general, sector-wide basis. EPM needs to maintain and develop its good
standing in the Bank's eyes, and, in light of its specific administrative and
financial characteristics, to insist on receiving different and individual
treatment.
The difficulties arising in the area of local and foreign procure-
ment provided useful experience and made it possible to correct shortcomings
in subsequent projects. However, EPM needs to contirnue its efforts in this
area, so as to make genuine improvements in its internal procedures ir, the
areas of bidding, contracting and control, and in the handling of its external
relations, particularly vis-a-vis the national authorities.



- 18 -
The SAR should not be the main yardstick against which to draw up
the ex post evaluation, because with this type of comparison greater emphasis
is placed on delays and discrepancies than on the successes achieved.  The
methods of collecting and filing project data need to be improved on both
sides, so that those data can be more useful to the ex-post evaluation. And
the evaluation itself should Lake a more appropriate form.
Lastly, efforts should be made, jointly with the Bank, to find
mechanisms for adjusting the long periods between negotiation and
effectiveness and the first and last disbursement, with a view to minimizing
commitment fees and extending grace periods, to ensure that repayments do not
start so far in advance of a project's entry into operation. This will
undoubtedly benefit the flow of funds and make the financial situation less
risky.



COLOM8IA
GUADALUPE IV HYDRO POWER PROJECT (LOAN 1868-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART IlI. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
-------------------------------,.--
1. Related Bank Loans
------------------------------------
Amount      Year                      Dis-
(in US$      of                     bursement
mill-       Apro-                     as of
Number and Title             ion)         val        Borrower      4/30/92                       Purpose
1. 38-00: Achicaya Hydro-electric       3.53        1950      CVCICHIDRAL     100S      Anchicaya units 1 and 2 (2 x 12 NW hydro)
2. 39-CU: La Inaula Hydro-electric        2.6        950         CHEC         100S      The Insula units 1 and 2 (2 x 10 MW hydro)
3. 54-CO: Labrija Hydro-electric          2.4       1951        LABRIJA       1002      Palmas units 1 and 2 (2 x 4.4 NW hydra)
4. 113-CO: Anchicays Yumbo Power          4.5       1955        CHIDRAL       100S      Anchicaya unit 3 (20 NW hydro) and Yumbo unit
i (10 MW thermal)
5. 215-CO: Yumbo Extension                2.8       1958        CHIDRAL       1002      Yumbo unit 2 (10 NW thermal)
6. 217-CO: La Esmelalda                   4.6       1959         CHEC         1002      La Esmeralda units 1 and 2 (2 x 13.3 NW hydro
7. 225-CO: Guadalupe                      12        1959          EPN         1001      Guadalupe units I and 2 (2 x 45 NW hydro) and
Troneras unit 1 (18 NW hydro)
8. 246-CO: Bogota Power                  17.6       1960         EEEB         100I      Laguneta unit 4 (18 NW hydro) and Zipaquira
unit 1 (33 MW thermal)
9. 255-Co: Yumbo III Calima I Power       25        1960      CVC/CHIDRAL     100S      Yumbo unit 3 (33 HW thermal) and Calia units
I and 2 (2 x 30 NW hydro)
10. 282-CO: Second Guadalupe             22         1961          EPH         1001      Troneras unit 2 (18 NW hydro) and Guadalupe
units 3, 4 and 5 (3 x 45 NW hydro)
11. 313-CO: Second Expansion             50         1962         EEEB         1001      Zipaquira unit 2  (37.5 NW hydro) and Colegio
units 1, 2 and 3 (3 x 50 MW hydro)
12. 339-CO: Power Expansion              8.8        1963      CYC/CHIDRAL     100!      Calmas units 3 and 4 (2 x 30 MW hydro)
13. 347-CO: Cospique Power                5         1963      ELECTRIBOL      1001      Cospique units 2 and 3 (2 x 12.5 nW thermal)
14. 369-CO: Nare                         45         1964          EPl         1001      Guatape un1*s 1, 2, 3 and 4 (4 x 70 MW hydro)   o
15. 537-CO: Third Expansion               18        1968         EEEB         1002      El Colegio units 4, 5 and 6 (3 x 5) NW hydro
and Canoes (1 x 50 MW hydro)



1. Related Bank Loans (Continuation)
------------------------------------
Amount      Year                       Dis-
(in US$      of                     bursement
mill-       Apro-                      as of
Number and Title              ion)         val       Borrover       4/30/92                        Purpose
16. 575-CO: Power Interconnection         18        1968           ISA         100!      Central System Interconnection (230 kV trans-
mission line and Substation)
17. 681-00: Chivor Hydroelectric         52.3       1970           ISA         100S      Chivor 1 (4 x 125 bydro)
18. 874-00: Guatape II Hydroelectric      56        1973           EPH         100S      Guatape II units 1, 2, 3 and 4
(4 x 70 nW hydro)
19. 1582-CO: San Carlos I Hydro Power    126        1978           ISA         1002      San Carlos I (4 x 155 NW hydro)
20. 1583-0O: 5OOkV Interconnection        50        1978       GOVERNMET       1001      500 kV Interconnection Central Systm/
Atlantic System
21. 1628-CJ): Hseitas Hydroelectric Pave  84        1978         REEE          100!      El Paraiso 3 x 90 NW; La Guaca 3 x 100 NW
pumping 3 x 10 MHP; Sesquile d   strengthenin
22. 1725-CO: San Carlos II Hydro Power   72         1979           ISA         100X      San Carlos II (4 x 155 nW hydro)
23. 1807-CO: Bogota Paver Distribution   87         1980         REES          100%      Bogota distribution
24. 1868-CO: Guadalupe IV Hydro Power    125        1980           EPH         1002      Guadalupe IV (3 x 71 MW hydro)
25. 1953-CO: Playas Hydro Paver           85        1981           EPH         100X      Playas (3 x 67 MW hydro)
26. 1999-CO  Village Electrification     36        1982         CORELCA       100S      Atlantic coast village electrification
27. 2008-CO: Guavio Hydro Power           359        1982         EEES         100l      Guavio (5 x 200 MW hydro)
28. 2401-CO: Power Development Finance   170        1984           FEN         100      Power development finance
28.2       1984          FEW          100%      Power development finance (Cofinancing)
29. 2449-CO: Rio Grande Multipurpose    164.5       1984           EPM          702      Rio Grande Hydro (3 x 100 MW hydro)
30. 2634-00: Bogota Distribution II       171       1986          REEB          70t      Bogota Distribution I1
31. 2889-CO: Power Sector                 300        1988      GOVERNMENT      lOO0      Power Sector Adjustment
0



- 21 -
2.   Pro,ict Timetable
Ltom                       Date                   Date
Planned                Actual
Identification                                          06/77
Preparation                                             08/77
Appraisal Miusion                                       11/79
Loan Negotiations                                   04/28/80
Board Approval                                      06/10/80
Loan Signature                 07/80                 12/19/80
Loan Effectiveness             10/80                06/29/81
Loan Closing                   06/85                 12/31/88
Project Completion             12/84                09/30/87



- 22 -
3.   Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement.
(in million of US$)
Bank Fiscal Year                Estimated        Actual         Actual as 2 of
and Semester                 Cumulatlje    Cumulative            Estimated
1980-1981
December 31, 1980                   0.7            0.0                  0
June 30, 1981                       7.7            0.0                  0
1981-1982
December 31, 1981                  18.0            0.0                  0
June 30, 1982                      38.0            6.4                 17
1982-1983
December 31, 1982                  61.5           12.2                 20
June 30, 1983                      86.5           14.9                 17
1983-1984
December 31, 1983                 112.0           33.0                 29
June 30, 1984                     118.0           50.0                 42
1984-1985
December 31, 1984                 124.0           62.8                 51
June 30, 1985                     125.0           71.5                 57
1985-1986
December 31, 1985                 125.0           82.2                 66
June 30, 1986                     125.0           71.5                 57
1986-1987
December 31, 1986                 125.0           86.8                 69
June 30, 1987                     125.0           94.1                 75
1987-1988
December 31, 1987                 125.0          100.41                80
June 30, 1988                     125.0          111.4                 89
1988-1989
December 31, 1988                 125.0          117.7                 94
June 30, 1989                     125.0          124.5                100
Date of Final Disbursement:   03/30/89
j/USS0.5 miLLion was canceled because of nitsprocureinent.



- 23 -
4.   Allocation of Loan Proceeds (in US$)
Category                   Original                     Actual
Allocation                Disbursements
1. Civil Works for             37,000,000                37,633,536.82
Part A of Project
2. Electromechanical           21,000,000                12,259,146.15
Equipment (excluding
turbinas & generators)
for Part A of the
Project
3. Transmission Line, and      24,000,000                32,993,407.60
satisfactory material
and Equipment (Part B
of the Project)
4. Control Center               9,500,000                15,842,489.14
(Part C of the Project)
5. Distribution Equipment      12,000,000                17,596,646.48
(Part D of the Project)
6. Special Utility              1,500,000                 1,771,146.69
Equipment (Part E of the
Project)
7. Training                     1,000,000                   679,675.25
(Part E of the Project)
8. Engineering Consulting       6,000,000                 5,747,968.39
Services
9. Unallocated                 13,000,000                        -
Fund                              -                       25,728.48
TOTAL                      125,000,000               124,549,745.001
m m .mmmmmmmm        mmmmm.__ __ __.-
VUS$450,255 was canceted because of misprocurement.



- 24 -
Page 1 of 2
5.   Proiect ImDlementation
COLOM5IA
EMPRESAS PUBLICAS DE HEDELLIN
GUADALUPE IV HYDRO POWE& PROJECT (LOAN 1868-CO
SAR
Item                     htimate               &t3al
GuadaluDe IV
Access roads                01/81                12/81
Civil works                 10/84                08/85
Turbines                    10/83                03/85
Generators                  10/83                01/84
Penstocks                   10183                05/85
Trgnsmission Lines
Group I                     02/82                83-84
Group II                    12/82                83-85
Group III                   01/84                84-86
Group IV (new)               N/A                 88-90
Substations
Group I                     11/82                09/83
Group II                    08/82                85-88
Group III                   12/84                1986
Group IV (new)               N/A                 88-90
Control Center              04,'84               06/88
Distribution EquiDment
Group I                     12/82                09/83
Group II                    12/84                09/85
Group III                   12/82                06/84
Group IV                    05/82                02/83
Group V                     07/83                10/87
Group VI (new)               N/A                 07/88
Distribution Transformers
Group I                     12/82                10/83
Group II                    12/84                08/87
Transmission study          06/81                12/81
Control center              12/84                06/88
Training                    12/84                06/87



- 25 -
Page 2 of 2
Transmigsion Lines
Group I   Ayurd-Anc6n Sur
Sub Central - (Castilla-Guayabal)
San Diego (Miraflores-Guayabal)
Girardota (Barbosa-Central)
Grupo II  Miraflore  - Anc6n Sur
C-rromatoso - Cauc&sia
Oriente - (Guatape - Evigado)
Oriente 220 - Oriente 110 kV
Group III Barbosa (Miraflores-Guatap6)
Barbosa (Linea No. 5 Guadalupe)
El Poblado - Anc6n Sur
Pto. Inmarco-Pto. Nare (1984)
Villa Hermosa - (Piedras Blancas-Miraflores) (1986)
Group IV  Envigado - Anc6n Sur
Horizonte (Bello - Colombia)
Colombia - San Cristobal
Anc6n Sur - San Antonio de Prado
Bello (2nd Circuit Guadalupe)
Substations
Group I   Oriente 220 kV (before Rio negro), Oriente kV, Cerromatoso,
Caucasia, 110/44, 44/13.2 kV.
Group II  Barbosa, El Poblado (before Lao Vegas), Puerto Nare.
Group III Villa Hermosa I.
Group IV  Piedras Blancas, Envigodo, Horizonte 110/44/13.2 kV; San Antonio de
Prado 44/13.2 kV.
Distribution Eauivment
Group I   Equipment for 1982, 1983, for 44 kV, 13.2 kV and secondary
natworks.
Group II  Ditto for 1984 and 1985 for 44 kV, 12.3 kV and secondary networks.
Group III Underground cables.
Group IV  Transformers and equipment for underground networks.
Group V   Other materials for outgoing cables in substations.
Group VI  Other materials for 1986 and 1987 distribution expansion.



- 26 -
Page 1 of 2
6. Proi0ct Cost and Financing
COLOMB
EmpresAs Publicas de Moddllin (EPM)
Guadaluie IV Hydro Power Proiect (Loan 1868-CO)
Proi1ct Cost
(US$ million)
--Apraisal Estimate--1   --------Actual------   ----
Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign   Total   Diflf
Guadalupe IV Evdro Station
Infrastructure                2.6        1.4    4.0    7.75        0.00    7.75   93.7
Civil Works                  22.8       25.1   47.9   27.06       15.48   42.54  -11.2
Equipment                     3.0       31.8   34.8    3.84       23.00   26.84  -22.9
Subtotal                   28.4      58.3   86.7   38.65        38.48   77.13  -11.0
Transmission Lines                3.0       7.5   10.5    6.94        9.35   16.29   55.1
Substations                      2.1       10.1   12.2   10.36       27.15   37.51  207.5
Control Center                    0.3       5.9    6.2    4.91       15.66   20.57  231.8
Distribution 1982-1988            2.4      10.0   12.4   10.65       17.54   28.19  127.3
Various Equipment                 0.0       1.1    1.1    0.40        1.94    2.34  112.7
Training                         0.3        0.8     1.1    0.10       0.58    0.68  -38.2
Total Base Cost           36.5      93.7  130.2   72.01    110.70  182.71   40.3
Engineering & Adm                 8.8       2.1   10.9   25.55        3.40   28.95  165.6
Physical Contingencies            6.8      12.1   18.9      -         -       -        -
Price Contingencies             21.0       47.3   68.3      -         -       -        -
TOTAL PROJECT COST        73.1      155.2  228.3   97.56    114.10 211.66   -7.3
Financing Cost                                                     45.96
TOTAL COST                                                   256.62
J/ At 1978 prf es.



- 27 -
Pa;. 2 of 2
6. Proiect Cost and Financing (Continuation)
COLOMBIA
EmDregse Publics. de Medellin (EPM)
Guadalupe IV hydro Power Pro1ect (Loan 1868-CO)
Proiect Pinancina
(US$ million)
----    SAR --------     ----- Actual-------
Sources                   Local  Forein  Total    Local  Foresin  Total
BIRF Loan 1868-CO                       125.0   125.0             124.6   124.6
External                                 30.2    30.2
Swiss Bank                                                       3.9      3.9
Mitsubishi Corp.                                                 4.6      4.6
Chase Manhattan Bank                                            20.8    20.8
Bank of America                                                 25.6    25.6
Local                            73.1            71.1
FEN - FONAVI                                            8.1               8.1
EPM Internal Funds                                     70.0              70.0
TOTAL    73.1   155.2   228.3    78.1    179.5   257.71
lI/Inctudes USS 46.0 miLLions of financing cost



- 28 -
Page 1 of 3
7. Prolect Results
A. Economic Impact
Appraisal            Estimated
Estimate               Actual
Internal Rate of Return                     11.82                 8.92
Underlyina Assumptions
1.   The benefits and costs have been calculated using Colombian pesos of
December 1979. The investment costs in generation, transmission and
distribution, and general plant during the construction period 1980-1988,
expressed in current Colombian pesos, were translated to constant end-1979
pesos using internal and external deflator indexes for the local and foreign
components. A similar calculation was done for the operation and maintenance
costs and for the energy purchases (or sales) from ISA.
2.   In calculating the internal rate of return, a similar methodology has
been used to that in the SAR, although costs and benefits were calculated
using financial prices only and not with border prices, as was done in the
SAR. This exercise was not undertaken because border and financial prices are
close at present in Colombia.
3.   Similar to the assumption in the SAR, the horizon for the evaluation of
the Project was 47 years (40 years of plant operation), when, on average, the
usual life span of the civil works of the hydroelectric plant has been
completed.
4.   A re-investment, after 30 years of usual life, for the electro-mechanic
components of the generating plant and for transmission and distribution has
been incorporated in the calculations.
5.   From 1988 onward, operating costs and benefits have been kept constant.
COMMENTS:
1.   The rate of return on the investment has been calculated using the
tariffs to value the benefits; in this sense, the calculation does not take
into consideration the consumers' surplus.
2.   If the starting value (1988) of tariffs in the evaluation of the
benefits is lower than desired (or required), the IRR would be lower than
expected. An increase in tariffs of 102 per year in real terms in the period
1991-1995, gives to the project an IRR of approximately 12.52 (this exercise
and the standard IRR calculation, are presented in the following pages).
3.  Additional coents on the IRR are given in paragraph 6.08.



- 29 -
C 0 L o0 ns I A                           Pag   2 of 3
Quaalkpe IV hydra Power Project (Loan tS68-CO)
Economic Evaluation Internal lato of Return
(Vtues In Mitlions of Cotombian P"os)
Geera- Tra .   oner. 0 & N  Purch.  Total           Stl$       Sales   Total         Not
Year  tion    D 0ist. Ptant  Exper.  ISA      Coats    EP14 sYstem  to ISA   sales       lee fIt
1980    383    395    304    194        82    1358         291.0   565.0    856.0        -502.0
1961   1319    40       268    310      48    2385         525.0   295.0      20.0      -1565.0
192    1816   1029    320    356         0    3521        W66.0   326.0    993.0        -2528.0
1963   3048   1286    366    449         5    5154        1053.0   191.0   1244.0       -3910.0
1964   294    1210    272    508    483    5437           1357.0      0.0   1357.0      -4080.0
1965   2919    981    497    508    852    5757           1784.0   433.0   2217.0       -3540.0
1966   2542   1231    334    638    725    5470           2467.0   169.0   2636.0       -2834.0
1987   1670   1609    285    675    904    5146           3261.0   306.0   3567.0       -1579.0
1988   1615   1133    325    814   1266    5153           3825.0   249.0   4074.0       -1079.0
1989      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
1990      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
1991      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
1992      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.)        2935.0
193       0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
1994      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
1995      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
1996      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
1997      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
1998      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
1999      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
2000      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
2001      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
2002      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
2003      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
2004      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
2005      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
2006      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
2007      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
2008      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
2009      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
2010      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
2011     77    395    325    814         0    1611        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2463.0
2012    264    440    325    814         0    1843        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2231.0
2013    363   1029    325    814         0    2531        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        1543.0
2014    610   1286    325    814         0    3035        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        1039.0
2015    593   1210    325    814         0    2942        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        1132.0
2016    584    981    325    814         0    2704        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        1370.0
2017    508   1231    325    814         0    2878        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        1196.0
2018    334   1609    325    814         0    3082        3825.0   249.0   4074.0         992.0
2019    323   1133    325    814         0    2595        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        1479.0
2020      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
2021      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
2022      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
2023      0       0    325    S14        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
2024      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
2025      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
2026      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
2027      0       0    325    814        0    1139        3825.0   249.0   4074.0        2935.0
Rate of Return *   8.91X        NPV * -3895.0 for 12.00X



- 30 -
CoLoN   I A                                   Page 3 of 3
GuadaLwt IV Hydro Power Prolect CLoan 1868-CO)
EoC'I1c EvaWuAtlon - Internal Rote of Raturn
(Values fn Millions of ColombIan Pesos)
Gener- Trnu.  Gener.  0 & 14  Purch.   Totel            SW.         Sales    TotaL         Net
Year   tlon   & Dist. Plant   Expen.   ISA       Costs      EP$4 system   to ISA    Sales       Oenfit
1980     383     395     304      194      82     1358          291.0   565.0    856.0          -502.0
1981    1319     440     268      310      48     2385          525.0   295.0    820.0         -1565.0
1962    1816    1029     320      356       0     3521          667.0    326.0     993.0       -2528.0
1983    3048    1286     366      449       5     5154         1053.0    191.0    1244.0       -3910.0
1964    296     1210    272       508     483     5437         1357.0      0.0    1357.0       -4080.0
1985    2919     981     497      508     852     5757         1784.0   433.0   2217.0         -3540.0
1986    2542    1231     334      638     725     5470         2467.0    169.0   2636.0        -2834.0
1987    1670    1609     285      678     904     5146         3261.0    306.0   3567.0       -1579.0
1988    1615    1133     325      814    1266     5153         3825.0   249.0   4074.0         -1079.0
1989       0       0     325      814       0     1139         3825.0    249.0    4074.0        2935.0
1990       0       0     325      814       0     1139         3825.0    249.0    4074.0        2935.0
i991       0       0     325      814       0     1139         4207.5    273.9    4481.4        3342.4
1992       0       0     325      814       0     1139         4628.3    301.3    4929.5        3790.5
1993       0       0     325      814       0     1139         5091.1    331.4    5422.5        4283.5
1994       0       0     325      814       0     1139         5600.2    364.6   5964.7         4825.7
1995       0       0     325      814       0     1139         6160.2   401.0   6561.2          5422.2
1996       0       0     325      814       0     1139         6160.2    401.0   6561.2         5422.2
1997       0       0     325      814       0     1139         6160.2    401.0   6561.2         5422.2
1998       0       0     325      814       0     1139         6160.2   401.0   6561.2          5422.2
1999       0       0     325     814        0     1139         6160.2   401.0   6561.2          5422.2
2000       0       0     325      814       0     1139         6160.2    401.0   6561.2         5422.2
2001       0       0     325      814       0     1139         6160.2    401.0   6561.2         5422.2
2002       0       0     325      814       0     1139         6160.2   401.0   6561.2          5422.2
2003       0       0     325      814       0      1139        6160.2    401.0   6561.2         5422.2
2004       0       0     325      814       0      1139        6160.2   401.0   6561.2          5422.2
2005       0       0     325      814       0     1139         6160.2   401.0   6561.2          5422.2
2006       0       0     325      514       0     1139         6160.2   401.0   6561.2          5422.2
2007       0       0     325      814       0      1139        6160.2    401.0   6561.2         5422.2
2008       0       0      325     814       0      1139        6160.2   401.0   6561.2          5422.2
2009       0       0      325     814       0      1139        6160.2   401.0   6561.2          5422.2
2010       0       0      325     814       0      1139        6160.2    401.0   6561.2         5422.2
2011      77     395      325     814       0      1611        6160.2    401.0   6561.2         4950.2
2012     264     440      325     814       0      1843        6160.2    401.0   6561.2         4718.2
2013     363    1029     325      814       0     2531         6160.2    401.0   6561.2         4030.2
2014     610    1286      325     814       0     3035         6160.2    401.0    6561.2        3526.2
2015     593    1210     325      814       0     2942         6160.2   401.0   6561.2          3619.2
2016     584     981      325     814       0     2704         6160.2    401.0    6561.2        3857.2
2017     508    1231      325     814       0     2878         6160.2   401.0   6561.2          3683.2
2018     334    1609      325     814       0     3082         6160.2   401.0    6561.2         3479.2
2019     323    1133      325     814       0     2595         6160.2   401.0   6561.2          3966.2
2020       0       0      325     814       0     1139         6160.2   401.0   6561.2          5422.2
2021       0       0     325      814       0     1139         6160.2   401.0   6561.2          5422.2
2022       0       0      325     814       0     1139         6160.2   401.0   6561.2          5422.2
2023       0       0      325     814       0      1139        6160.2   401.0   6561.2          5422.2
2024       0       0      325     814       0     1139         6160.2   401.0   6561.2          5422.2
2025       0       0      325     814       0     1139         6160.2   401.0   6561.2          5422.2
2026       0       0      325     814       0      1139        6160.2    401.0   6561.2         5422.2
2027       0       0      325     814       0      1139        6160.2   401.0   6561.2          5422.2
Rate of Return -   12.45X          NPV *   723.7 for 12.00X



- 31 -
Page 1 of 3
8. Status of Covenants
COLOMBIA
Empresas Publicas de Medellin (3PM)
Guadalupe IV Hydro Powor Project (Loan 1868-CO)
Compliance with Loan Covenants
Section                           erief Descriptisn                          ;tatw $  c.pt i
A. PROJECT COVENANTS                                                         _
3.02 (a)    Employment of Consultants for the design and supervision    Complled
of Part A of the Project (Generation)                          I
3.02 (b)    Employment of Consultants for the study of referred to in   Cowlied
l_________  Part F (a) of the Project (Transmission System)  _
3.03        Employment of Consultants for a carrying out of Part C of   Coptlied
the Project (Control Center)
3.04        Measures to ensure that the Project is carried out with           Coplied
regard to ecological and environmental factors.
3.05         Ins.irance of imported goods.                                    Coelied
3.06 (a)    EPM to furnish to the Bank contract documents.                    Compliid
3.06 (b)    EPM to monitor the progress and maintain records of the           Coaplied
Project.
3.06 (c)   Preparation of a Report after completion of the Project.    Coelied
3.07        Acquisition of land required for the Project.                     Cooplied (see also 5.12)
4.04 (b)    EPM to require that its dams, reservoirs banks and                Complied (Independent
earthworks be periodically inspected.                            consultants in charge of
inspection)
B. FINANCIAL COVENANTS
5.01        The borrower to operate each of its departments                   Co*Wlied
independently from one another and with separate
accounting records.
5.02        Borrower to use independent auditors acceptable to the            Complied
Bank for the yearly audit of:
(i) Accounts and financial statements.
Cowl ied
Send audited financial statements of the previous year by
May 31 of each year
5.03        Not Later than 3 months after each calendar year furnish    Patially coqplied.  Early years
Bank with a report showing the Borrower's performance of    of project (till 1984/ not fully
the previous  nd following years.                                calted)
5.04        The Borrower shall abide by the standard negative pledge    Copclisd
clause
5.05        Without the Bank's consent, the Borrower shalI not sell           Coeplied
all or substantially dispose of all of its Power ofr
WSS's assets or of all or substantially all of the
property included in the project.
5.06        Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree the Borrowr              Coaplied
shall not incur any debt for any of its Departments
unless the debt service coverage test of ny such
department shall be no less that 1.5



Page  2 of 3
- 32 -
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .   .; .. .   iD. .......
5.07 (a)    ExcePt as the MMnk and the Borrower with the concurrence
of the Guarantor shasl otherwise agree, the Borrower,
shalL obtain anual rates of return of no Less than:
(i)  For its Power Departmnnt                                   Partially Cotioed
7X   in 1981                                              Not coeplied
10X  in 1982                                              Not comptied
14X  in 1983                                              Net
7X   in 19S4                                              Net
10  in 1985                                              met
12X  in 1986                                              Marginatly not M_t
10X  in 1987 wnd after                                    1967 Mt, 1988-1990 not Met
(ii) For its WSS Department (as amended Ln. 2449-CO)            Wot coepLied
1.1X in 1984
2.5X in 1985
3.5 in 1986
5.5X in 1987
6.0X in 1988
5.2X in 1989 _nd  fter                                              -_-
5.07 (c)    Sand to the Bank within the first two months of each            Coptlied
quarter, quarterly rates of return (ROR) progress
reports.
5.07 (d)    If progress reports show expected non-compliance, the           Not fully complied.  EPH argued
Borrower shall take the recessary steps incLuding tariff    that lower than required ROR ws
adjustments                                                     not affecting the fineaial
soundness of cos!=nv orerations.
5.08        The Borrower shall increase its tariffs by no less than         Partielly complied.  Local
(a) for its Power Department: 2.2X per month until              inflation and devaLustion of
December 31/198  a nd 1.8% per month thereafter                 ColS affected the expected
outcome of their action.
(b) for its WSS Deprtmemt: 1.8X per month until
December 31/1988 and 1.5X per month thereafter_
5.09        Bank concurrance will be sought before the borrower             Complied
undertkoks any capital expenditure unrelated to the
^ - _ = oPrstions of anyLof its Derartments.
5.10 (a)    The Borrower shall not commit itself to increase its            Complied
generating capacity by more than 100 MW unle r:
(i)   it has afforded the Bank a reasonable opportunity
to comment;
(ii)  such increase is part of the NotionaL Power
Expansion Program of ISA approved by the Bank; and
_ _______   (fii) The Borrower has obtained suitable financing
5.10 (b)   For investments other than the above. in the Project, or    CoupI fed
in the Power end ISS's investvAnt programs; Blnk
concurrece shall be obtafind iwhn suchs investments wiLl
exceed 1% of the net current value of the Borrower's
fixed assets in operation.
5.11        The Borrower shall not allow the transfer of funds              Complied
between any of its Departments unless they are surplus
funds and trnsfers are made as formsl loans on
commerciaL terms and conditions.
5.12 (a)    Ci)    The Borrower shall prepare, by March 31. 1991 a          Couplied
program for revising its tariff structure nd
rates;
(ii)   Put into effect such program by Nay 30. 1991.            Cowplied



Page  3 of 3
- 33 -
C. PERTINENT COVEINATS OF GUARANTEE AGREENENTS ETWEEN GOERNMENT AND IMO FOR LOAN AGREEMENTS 2449
1953 AND 16S-CO
2.02        The goverrennt to provide or enablo Sorroier to be             CoWtied
_________  orovided ulth sufficiont funds to carry out the prolect
3.02        The boverrvmnt shall wnablo Borrower to set and mintain    Ccaplied
tariffs at loiss sufficient to coply with agreed rates
of return nd minioua tariff Increrse, indcoated In
section. 5.07 and 5.08 of loan a're ent.             ___    __        _
3.03        Tho govsrrvmnt shalt provido all  a ciltitis to Borrower       Not fully coptied.   Tho
to Insure thc ti _ty procuro  nt of Good *n w* rvicos          processing of Inport ticwesr  by
for the project.                                               INCONEX end custom  clerance
delayed the procurement of
f sported goodo.



- 34 _
9.  Use of Bank Reseurc*5
A. STAPP INPUT
(Staff Weeks)
Bank FY         1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Preparation      2.6    1.3
Appraisal               11.8
Negotiations             4.3
Supervisions             1.6    3.6   13.8    7.6   13.3    6.1    7.9   11.7    5.1
TOTAL         2.6   17.7    3.6   13.8    7.6   13.3    6.1    7.9   11.7    5.1
B. MISSION DATA
Staff
Weeks   Perfor-   Type of
Month     No. of        No. of         in    mance      Problems
TDeo f£Mission          'Year                   Personsi      field   Rating2   Status3
Project preparation      5/78         1.3         1             1.3
Project Preparation      9/79         1.3         1             1.3
Appraisal                12/79        3           3             9
Post Appraisal           2180         2           4             8
Supervision I            7/80         3          1PE            3         2          T
Supervision II           9/81         3          2PE            6
Suporvision III          11/81        1.7        1FA            1.7
Supervision IV           4/82         2.6        IPE            2.6       2          F
Supervision V            9/83         2.6        IPE            2.6       2          P
Suporvision VI           4184         2          1PE            2
Supervision VII          11/85        1.8      IPE, 1FA         3.6       2         M,F
Supervision VIII         9/86         0.6      IPE, IPA         1.2       2        Mt, F
Supervision UX           5/88         1.7    IPE, FA,IE        5.1
TOTAL                                                   47.4
j  PE- Powr Engineer; FAm Financial Analyst; En Econoist
n 1- Probtlfree or ifnor problem; 2u hoderate probles; nd 3m major problem
Fs FinanncaL; o Magerala; To technical



COLGUIA
DWSAS PUILICAS D11 HEDELLSII
GADALMIYE IV B7DlO P0F        PROJECT - LWN  1868-CO
CaPeAISM  DP ACTUAL AMD  OUCAST  1M            STATUEUS (1980-1989)
(in Millions of Current ColS)
-----1980----           ---1981-----                  -----1982-----               -----1983-----                -----194-----
VriLa-                        larta-                        Tarta-                        varia-                         Varia-
UR   Actual  tion I           SA    Actual  tio  I         SAX   Actual  tion 2           SAK  Actual  tion Z           SU    Actual  tion I
Energy Sale. -I1 (GUb)                   3673    3558    -3.1           3992    3709    -7.1          4338    3942    -9.1          4713    4190   -11.1          5120    4346   -14.7
Average Tariff (ColtC1db)                 103      105      1.9          142      132    -7.0          191      174    -8.9          228      241     5.7          230      307    33.5
Average Tariff (USClkWIh)                2.28    2.23    -2.2           2.84    2.43   -14.4          3.40    2.70   -20.6          3.63    3.03   -16.5          3.37    3.07    -8.9
Total  nrgy Sales z   (mCol$)            378      3736    -1.3          5658    4894   -13.5          8265    6833   -17.1         10734   10117    -5.8         117U    0i414   113.
met Sales (Purchases) to (from)
ISA (G)                                357     542    -2.7           200       44   -78.0           335     548    63.6           -64      25  -139.1           -31    -788  2435.5
Average Tariff ISA (ColcikWh)              55       62    12.7            69      68    -1.4           110       85   -22.7          127      392   208.7         li       223    35.3
Average tariff ISA (CUSCjWh)             1.17    1.32    12.8           1.27    1.27      0.0         1.71    1.32   -22.8          1.60    4.93   208.1          1.64    2.25    35.3
Net Sale (Purchases) to (frm)
ISA (MCol$)                            306     337    10.1           138      303   i19.6          368      467    26.9          -81       98  -221.0           -52   -1770  1303.8
0?DAIG  II1U
Energy Sales                             4093    4073    -0.5           5795    5197   -10.3          8633    7320   -15.2         10655   10215    -4.1         11735   11646    -0.8
Other Inaoe                                 6        7    16.7             7        S    14.3            S        9    12.5            9       15    68.7           10       21   110.0                     IA
total Operating lavenus                  4098    4080    -0.4           5802    5205   -10.3          8641    7329   -15.2         10664   10230    -4.1         11473   11667       1.7
OPERATING COSTS
Generation                                1S6      162      3.8          183     242    32.2           211      299    41.7          247      421    70.4          284      340    90.1
Tranis sios                                47       64    36.2            54      79    46.3            63      132   109.5           74      134   106.1           89      191   114.6
Distributio                               149      118   -20.8           188     144   -23.4           232      180   -22.4          285      293     2.8          335      370     4.2
Cenral Plant-Operation                    167      208    24.6           198     310    56.6           232     357   53.9            271      423    56.1          316      310    61.4
Genral PlutAdinetstration                 531      647    21.8           648     748    15.4           788    1254    59.1           976    1521    55.8          1194    2072    73.5
National Grid Charge.                     130      182    40.0           141     228    61.7           159      321   101.9          164      176    -4.3          199    19    -3.0
D preciatiot                             1040      943    -9.3          1300    1241    -4.5          1574    1601      1.7         1916    1935      1.0         2339    2385       1.1
menti.ation (Studies & Training)            7        0  -100.0            13       0  -100.0            47        0  -100.0           So       13   -83.0           97       11   -U8.7
*unicipal Contribution                    168      218    29.6           230     284    13.4           366     367      5.7          475      519     9.3          522      650    24.5
Total Operating Costs                    2394    2542       6.2        2973    3276    10.j           3672    4531    23.4          4508    5433    21.0          3395    8598    27.9
Operating Income                         1704    1538    -9.7           2827    1929   -31.8          4969    2798   -43.7          6156    4775   -22.4          6350    4769   -24.9
Other Income                              280      612   118.6           173     *67   401.2           206    1027   398.3           228     822   260.5           317      702   121.5
Other   @euee                              12        0  -100.0            11       0  -100.0            13        0  -100.0           14        0  -100.0           14        0  -100.0       9
00
Net Incon  before Interest               1972    2150      9.0          2989    2796    -8.5          5160    3825   -25.9          6370    5597   -12.1          6633    5471   -17.8
Least 1iterest During Construct.           70      134    91.4           251     162   -3_.3           502     483    -3.8           809      7U8    -3.1         1074    2071    92.8        O
Interest Charged to Inccae         706      841   18.            803     632      3.5          887    1144    29.0           851    1193    40.2           911    1122    23.2         P%4
Total lsterest                            779      975    25.2          1054     993    -5.8          1389    1627    17.1          1660    1976    19.0          1983    3193    60.9            >
But ISeoe  after Interest                1264    1309       3.6         2186    1965   -10.1          4273    2681   -37.3          5519    4404   -20.2          5742    4349   -24.1



COLQU3IA
D(PESAS PMILICAS DE DELLIU
CUADALWI IV N1D)0 PbUZ  PRDJCT  - LAN 1868-CO
CGPRAISOU O  ACTUAL AND FORZCAST INCCmE STATMn   (1980-199)
(in IMillion  of Current Col$)                            (CCotiatio.)
-1985          -----           198- -                     M           19888        1969
VarU.-                        Varia-
S    Actual  tion I          SU    Actual  tion I        Actual       Actual       Actul
mnry Sale* C1 (WAb)                      S561    4544   -18.3          600    UUS'   -19.1           5294         5525         5764
Average Tariff (ColeiWk)                  253      420    66.0          279      559   100.4           712          86         1143
Aoveagp Tariff (US*ihek)                 3.40    2.94   -13.5          3.43    2.84   -16.1          2.95         2.96         3.00
total frgy Sales  ON (Mcol$)            14002   19069    35.4         16823   27322    62.4         37873        46969        65803
Not Sales (rca.o) to (from)
IS  (G)                                 2    -420   N.A.            716    -604  -212.3          -726         U419        -1184
Average Tariff IS& (ColcIlWh)             175      313   194.3          204      410   101.0          U12          927          931
Averae Tariff IS& (lle)                  1.22    3.60   195.1          1.04    2.10   101.9          2.54         3.10         2.44
Not SalAe (prcharnes) to (free)
ISA (1ColS)                              4   -2161   N.A.           1461   -327  -S25.7          -4448        -7593       -10644
S_r  Sale                               1408s   16908    20.0         18264   24025    31.4         33225        41376        55195
Other Ileome                               12       29   141.7           14       31   121.4            47          93          141
total Operatia  Revemma                 14897   16937    20.1         18298   24056    31.5         33272        41469        55336
o8uATn89 co
Gmeratim                                  35       78    99.5           4535      32    82.9         1043         1452         2569
Trandasiom                                115      220    9l.3          13S      519   139.6          S11         S3S           549
Distribution                              439     449      2.3          530      545     2.8          706          992         1323
Gemarel Plant-0peratiou                   370      575    55.4          4S2      SO1   12".4         1339         164          2391
Ceeral Plnt-Adiaistretion                1434    2623    62.9          1723    481   182.1           5485         8616        11300
atieal grit Chargte                       204       14   -93.2          229      190   -17.0          325          351          841
Psprocistim                              3341    3135    -6.2          4034    4297      6.5         5518         7235        12319
bortiatiom  (Studies & trrainn)           159       22   U.8.2          152       25   -83.6           25           39            0
tMic-pal CamtrIbutiou                     623      94     59.6          744    1328    78.5          16U5         2416         3184
Total Operating Cost                     7082    820    24.5           8432   1338      56.6        16637        23370        34476
Operating Income                         7013    8117    15.7          9866   10666      6.1        16635        16099        20S40
Otber lueen                               342    1825   433.6           482    2340   305.3          3475         4517         3540
Other lupense                              15        0  -100.0           21        0  -100.0            0            0            0
net InSee   before Interest              7342    9942    35.4         10327   13006    26.0         20110        22616        24420                                      8
Least Interest Durin  Construct.          630    3069   272.2          1108    31579   223.0         5246         6125         1976                                       O 
Interest Cbarged to Incae         1573    1851    17.7           1536    4507   IS.7          3767         8341        15416                                      I1b
Totia Interest                           2403    4940   105.6          2664    80      203.5        11013        14466        17394
Nat Income  after Interest               5769    8091    40.2          8771    *501    -3.1         14343        14275         9002



c6-KA
EESSU PLICM O1 IEWULD
06*051.1  IT 11DR0 POM  P1OiZT - LOM 16S6-C0
CGPaausgM 0  ACTUAL AM00ICAST 5LMC  SNmTS (1960-1989)
(is Mllio of Currat ColI)
___--1960---                  -----1961-----                      1952-----                ----1963-----                 -----1964-----
VerSa-                        Vat.             aria-         Voria-                                       Tart. Vri-
SAX   Actual  tic.            SAR.  Actual  tis 2            U*    Actual  tic  I          $AR   Actual  tic. I          SA    ActuaL  time 2
ASSETS
Pined Assets
Cro  lPia.d * A t.ia . SrYic.           31516   33655       7.4       3900    4M41    11.9           47440   55583    17.2         57610   69030    19.          6 4450   65914      1.7
Accimlated Dapreciatic.                 7140    7505      5.1         9854   10840    12.3          12676   15150    19.5         16493   19704    1. 5         2130    27057    27.0
Net fit"  *Aset* In Servic,             24376   25349      6.1        29353   32802    11.6          34764   40433    15.3         41117   49326    20.0         53154   56557    -5.6
Work in Prograaa                         2033    1576   -22.5          5246    4173   -20.5          10640    9739   -10.2         18676   16465   -11.7         13736   29548    67.7
Total lixed  s"nt.                      25411   27923      5.7        34599   36975       6.9        45504   50172    10.0         59795   55811    10.1         7892    6405    12.1
Invnatasnta
ISA                                      2407    1852   -23.1          3223    2955    -.J3           436     3501   -20.2          5490    4309   -21.5          5869    5447    -7.5
Other Iuvtetanta                          216      603   176.6          235      661   255.4           255     600   213.7           279    1106   297.1           305    1149   276.7
Accumaleted Caah Surplus                  151        0  -100.0             3       0  -100.0           115        0  -100.0           72        0  -100.0          261        0  -100.0
Studio*                                   206       935   54.3          345      255   -26.1           424    563    51.1           4*6      395    22.5           47       So01    S7.S
Otber                                      97        0  -100.0            97       0  -100.0            97        0  -100.0           97        0  -100.0           97        0  -100.0
Total ieast_nmtm                         3091    2550   -17.5           903    4071       4.3         5277    4964    -.55          5424    5013    -5.4          700    7397       5.2
Currant Asata
Ca-  bud                                  131       09   517.4           174    1216   596.9           200     894   347.0           245      20   -92.5           27S       21   -92.4
Cinitad fund.                             340        0  -100.0          460        0  -100.0           524     822    56.9           690    950    39.1            703    1099    5S.3
Accouota  aelvable                        767      817     3.6         1114    1226    10.2           1659    1607      6.9         2046    1921    -5.2          2230    2650    17.0
lIventory                                 377      307   -16.6          567      433   -23.5           657     727   -16.1          1267    1272      0.4         1676    1903      1.3                     L
Otbar                                     113      229   102.7           134     151    12.7           157      174    10t.          14     247    34.2           215      516   140.9
Total Currant *Acats                     1756    2162    23.1          2449    3026    23.5           3407    4424    29.9          4434    4420    -0.8          3322    6191    16.3
TTAL ASSETS                             312S    32637      4.4        40951   44074       7.'        54266   49560    -6.7         70573   76244      7.9        91244  101993    11.6
QOITI AM  LIABILITIE
Caital and Acemlatad Surplus             5635    5637      0.0         7820    7601    -2.6          12094   10262   -15.0         17614   14607   -156.         23357   19035   -16.5
oations                                 532     316   -40.2           557      611      9.7         591      751    26.6          541    102.5   59.9            706    1164    54.4
Capital tevaluatioc                     14043   16993    14.5         1I667   23394    23.9          23312   31425    34.6         29217   35154    23.7         37140   43900    18.2
Total Equity                            21010   22948      9.2        27264   31605    15.9          35997   42466    16.0         47472   51U65      9.3        61205   64100      4.7
Long-Torm Llabillties
L.og-T ru Dbt                            6451    6290   -25.5         11229   10264    -0.6          15209   13565   -10.6         19395   19673      1.4        25414   30252    19.0
penaion  , other Liab. Reserves           932      690   -26.0         1031    1469    42.5           1261    1946    54.5          1539    25U7    66.1          1676    4059   116.1
Total Loqg-Taru lir billtias             9363    9100    -2.2         12260   11733    -4.3          16470   15513    -5.6         20934   22260    653          27292   34511    25.7
Lom CurreDt Oturitiam                     638      664     4.1         1253    1479    10.0           1692    2069    10.4          1270    2729   114.9          I1S1   4999   136.4
Hot Loeg-TSr. Liabilities                5745  S516    -2.6           11007   10254    -6.6          14576   13424    -7.9         19664   19531    -0.7         25177   29312    16.4
Currant Liahilitima
CUrrent Maturities                        636      654     4.1         1253    1479    16.0           1892    2069    10.4          1270    272S   114.9          2115    4999   136.4        1
Accout* Payable to Coitractorm          441      366   -17.0           760     626   -17.4           973    1425    45.5          1236    1676    51.7          1255    3040   142.9    01
Interost Payable                          195        0  -100.0          263        0  -100.0           347       0  -100.0           415       0  -100.0           49            -100.0       S
Accounta Payable - Operstioa330         143   -55.7           403      107   -73.4          301      174   -55.3          GIs      240   -80.6          745      33     2.
Otber CurrOat LIAblities                    0        0   N.A.             0        0   N.A.              0       0 *.A.                0       0   N.A.            250        0  -100.0 e
Total Currant Liabilities                1604    1173   -25.9          2579    2214   -17.4           3713    3668    -0.7          3538    4847    37.1          4462    6561    75.5        0
TOTAL 3=21 AM  LAUILITIIS               31259   32637      4.4        40950   44074       7.5        5426    59580      9.7        70572   76244      7.9        91244  10193    11. 6%
at I



C0LGISIA
rMZsus Pu8LICIS Dn )InUS Lut
OtMUALUN IT NI06  .D  PDJCS  - LO1 16-CO
CPAISm  Cr ACTUAL MO bUSAsT  ALAUCr SIMTS (1960-1989)
(in Million, of Cukrret ColS)                                  (Ccstleatom)
-195-----                  -----196-----                    1967         1i6           1966
VTras-                         Varia-
S4L   Actual  tion I           SAR   Actual  tict I          Actual        Actual       actual
ASSMT
1usm Assets
Gross fized Assets in Servico           101566  121125    19.3          156475  155619       -1.7       200024        349206       456549
Accumlated Deprmcistlcs                  27844   36390    30.7           36054   48611       34.6        66497         93044       130768
Net Iliad Assets In Service              73725   64735    14.9          122421  107206    -12.4         133527        256162       325761
Work in Proress                          2560    36503    49.2             319   39503  16553.0          91739         51036        70930
Total Fixed Aas.ts                       99533  123238    23.6          122740  166711       35.6       225266        307196       36711
lvrsitments
___________
ISA                                       462    6766        4.4          7566    6524       12.7         6U75         12766        27623
Otbhr Inveemtnats                           336    1466   336.3            371    1600    365.2           2267          2719         3633
Accumlated Camb Surplus                     337        0  -100.0           408        0   -100.0           966          1055          767
Studies                                    320      850   165.6            167      955    471.9              0            0            0
Other                                        97        0  -100.0            97        0   -100.0              0            0            0
Total Investments                         7572    9064    20.0            b609   11281       31.0        12146         16540        32223
Current Assets
-_____________
Cash and banks                              306        4   -98.7           316        7    -97.6           666          3389         1647
C 'mited funds                              805    5140   536.5            627    4977    501.8           6896          7306         3624
Accountm Receivable                        2701     1745   -35.4          3506    3479       -0.8         4639          5602         6407
Inventory                                 2211    2586      17.0          3352    3342       -0.3         4669          4959         6236                                                      LA
Other                                       251     1513   502.6           294      684    200.7          7345          2310         2306
Total Current Assets                      6274   10986    75.1            6295   12669       53.0        24637         23766        20422
TOTAL ASSIT                             113371  143310    26.4          139644  190661       36.5       262051        347504       449356
____________
3pqL0? AND LIBILITIES
WTY
Capital and Accumilated Surplus          29127   26055   -10.6           37895   34536       -8.9        46379         62654        71656
DE tiona                                    796    2227   179.6            913    2967    227.2           4303          5722         7267
Capital Rewsluation                      47379   43290    -6.6           60370   42473    -29.6          47154         66310       126236
Total Equity                             77301   71552    -7.4           99178   79996    -19.3          99636        154666       205161
Long-Temu Liabilities
Long-Tem  Debt                           30717   61668   100.6           33101   93841    183.5         140769        164009       203751
Pion * otbhr Liab. leserveg               2287    4852   112.2            2764    7646    174.7          10341         13666        21309
Total Long-Term liabilities              33004   66520   101.6           35885  101469    162.6         151110        177875       225060
Loes Current Maturities                   2470    6429   241.3            3241    9118    161.3          14675         26757        29554
let IloS-Ter. Liabilities                30534   56091    90.5           32644   92371      163.0       136435        151116       195506
Current Liabilities
___________________
Current Maturities                        2470    6429   241.3            3241    9116    181.3          14675         26757        29554
Accounts Payable to Contractors           1189    3069   15S.1             874    5911    576.3           1796          284S         4102
Interest Payable                           601      1356   126.0           666    2085    213.1           31177         3617         3930
Accounts Payable - Op*ratlona               690     611    -6.9           1059    1200       13.3             0         6476        11103
Other Current Liabilities                   392        0  -100.0          1962        0   -100.0          6130             0            00
Total Current Liabilities                 5542   13667   146.6            7622   16314    134.1          25760         41700        4Ud9                                         o
TOTAL r0TI AND LIAILITIES               113376  143310    26.4          139644  190461       56.5       262051       347504        449356                                        a
Go PM



COEABIA
31PKES&S PMLICAS DE 1DLLII
GCADALUI  IV 117    POWER PROJECT - LOA0 1868-CO
CQ1PAIISOF oF AcTUAL AMD POS AST SOURCES  MID APPLICKTIOS OF VMS (1980-1989)
(in millions of Current Col$)
-- .9- 1980-                  _ -191-                          -----1982-----               ---1983-----                 -----1984-----
Vart-                         Varte-                        Varia-                        lria-                           aria-
SU    Actual  tion I          SAX   Actual  tion I          SU     Actual  t ioa SIt   Actual  tics 2                    SAL  Actual  tio  1
SOUMS
Internal Caah Generation
Operative Incom                          1972    2150       9.0         2989    2196    -6.5          5160    3625   -25.9          6370    5597   -12.1          6653    5471   -17.6
Depreciation                             1040      943    -9.3          1300    1241    -4.5          1574    1601       1.7        1916    1935       1.0        2359    2365       1.1
Amortizatio  (Studios & Training)           7        0  -100.0            13        0  -100.0           47        0  -100.0           s0       13   -83.8            97      11   -68.7
Increase tn Reserve Accounts              235      202   -14.0          224      596   166.1           265     549   107.2           326      718   116.9          405    1383   241.5
Gross Internal Ca-b G.nration            3254    3295       1.3         4526    4633      2.4         7046    5975   -15.2          6694    0263    -5.0          9494    9230    -2.6
Debt Sarvice
Aaortixatiso                              545      690    26.6           638     696      9.1         1253    1611    28.6          1693    2776    46.6          1270    3457   172.2
Interests                                 706      641    16.6          U03      E31      3.5          667    1144    29.0           651    1193    40.2           911    1122    23.2
Total Debt Service                       1253    1531    22.2           1441    1527      6.0         2140    2755    26.7          2744    3971    44.7          2181    4579   109.9
Kquity Contributions to ISA               911      595   -34.7          615    1103    35.3           1164     546   -53.1          1103      606   -26.7          400    1138   164.5
___________________________
not Internal Cash Generation             1090    1169       7.2        2270    2003   -11.6           3742    2674   -26.5          4647    3484   -28.1          6913    3513   -49.2
llorrwiUg.
Editint                                   176      434   143.6             0       0   N.A.              0        0   l.A.             0        0   N.A.             0        0   N.A.
Guadalupe IVs I2ID                         32        0  -100.0           664     550   -36.3          2423    2195    -9.4          3165    3298      4.2          620    4331   426.2                       w
Othbr                      431     164   -57.3           736      374  .49.2           984        0  -100.0           113      22   -60.5           193    1224   534.2                       MD
Playas                                      0        0                     0       0   N.A.            465      123   -74.6         1084    2572   137.3          4323    3505   -16.9
Otber                                     123      379   206.1           240    -453  -288.6             0    1345   N.A.              0      766   N.A.              0    1309   N.A.
Studite                                     a        0                   139      86   -53.1            65       94    44.6          143       76   -45.5           46       53    10.4
efLnanc1g aMd Debt I.ea.lation            210        0  -100.0           6)0o    1051    75.2            0        0   N.A.             0        0   N.A.             0        0   N.A.
Total Borrowings                          974      997      2.4         2579    1608   -57.7          3957    3757    -5.1          4505    6736    49.5          5364   10422    93.6
TOTAL SORCIIS                            2064    2166       4.9         4649    3611   -25.5          7699    6431   -16.5          9352   10220      9.3        12297   13935    13.3
ALICATIES
Construction Program
Exiating                                  655      626   -26.5          929      $67    _6.7             9        0  -100.0            0        0       0            0        0        0
Guadalupe IV                              860      502   -41.6         2693    1366   -48.5           4946    2523   -49.0          4947    3876   -21.6          1732    5011   169.3
Payes                                      69        0  -100.0           702     254   -63.6          1171    1022   -12.7          2605    3476    33.5          6854    3356   -51.0
Cenral Plat                                36      246   588.9            43     274   537.2            50     535   970.0            55     543   687.3           138      410   197.1
Studies                                   150        0  -100.0           115     131    31.3            96     406   322.9           116      124     6.9           53      190   256.5
Other                                       0        0   N.A.              0       0   N.A.            200     960   360.0           200    1652   726.0          1600    2575    43.1
Sub-Total,                               1990    1376   -30.6          4462    2932   -34.6          6472    5446   -15.9           7923    9673    22.1         10577   11542      9.1
Interest Dering Conetruction               70      134    91.4          251      162   -35.5          502      463    -3.6           SO9     763    -3.2          1074    2071    St.8
Total ComtructioD  Progrm                2060    1512   -26.6          4733    3094   -34.6           6974    5929   -15.0          6732   10456    19.7         11631   13613    16.6
Otbhr Inetsnts                           -141        0  -100.0           42        5   -68.1            0o    -30  -160.0             61     308   404.9            74      9r  1125.7         id
Sub-Total                                1919    1512   -21.2          4773    3099   -35.1           7024    5899   -16.0          8793   10764    22.4         11725   14520   2I.S         ogt
lacrosse (Decrease) in  lorklng Cap.    396       654    65.2           231      512   121.6          563      532    -5.5           602    -524  -167.0           388    -365  -251.6
TOTAL APPLICATIO                         2313    2166    .4.4          5006    3611   -27.9           7587    6451   -15.2         9"95   10220       6.6        12111   13935    13.1
Surplus (Deficit) of fudo                -233        0  -100.0         -157        0  -100.0           112       0  -100.0           -43       0  -100.0           let        9  -100.0        °
Accamat4 d                                 70        0  -100.0          -47        0  -100.0            23        0  -100.0          -16       0  -100.0           166        9  -100.0        *



CWE61A
IPIUnS LouICs, t1 IubULtD
GUAMLUu  IV  on  prN  PROJECT - LOM iss-co
CCIAIS   OI aCTUAL AM  iOaaCAsT so09.U AM *mrCATiO  OPs amr   (1oSO-1t90)
(in millions of Curret Col$)                             (Costimsetim)
-    ---------- 1t44---                                 1s7          19o         2969
Tarls-                       *arns-
SAN   Actual  ticn 2          UR   Actual  tic. 2        Actual      Actual       Actual
Internal Ceb Cenretiam
Op.ratil  InMe                         7342    9942    35.4         10327   13008    26.0         20110       22616        24420
Deprecistic                             3341    3135    -4.2          4034    4297      6.5         551S        7235        12519
ortisation (Studies A Training)           159      22   -06.2          152       25   -83.6           25           39           0
Incrose In Reserve Aceotmte             499      946    69.6          613    3016   392.0          3299        5143         5050
Grose Internal Cash Genrstlis          11341   14045    23.U         15126   20346    34.5         26952       35033        42909
Debt Service
haartis-tic.a                           2115    4499   112.7          2470    9922   301.7         11143       14582        294"2
Interest.                               1573    1651    17.7          1556    4507  1U9.7           5767        0341        15418
Total Debt Service                      3640    6350    72.2          4026   14429   258.4         16910       24923        44860
Equity Coutributiom  to ISA              593    1320   122.6          1004    1759    62.3           349        3691        14656
let Internal Casb Oeueretim             7060    6375    79.7         10016    4158   -58.5         11469        4219       -16747
3orrm1ve
Egietile                                   0        0   NA.              0        0   N.A.             0           0            0
Gualupe ITS 1M                            75   4670  9040.0              0    4540   *.L.           7417        5174         2324
Otber                      97    1332  1273.2             0      747   N.A.             0            0           0 °
Playae                                  4619    3003   -11.1          2071    7166   275r           $$851 i      5 5         4781
Otber                                      0    3120   *.                0    159   N.A.           4405        3502        23697
Studies                                    0       53    HA.             0        0   N.A.             0            0           0
Lde1ucag sad Debt 3.evaInstic              0        0   N.A.             0        0   NA.              -0                       0
Total  oar rwie                         4991   15103   204.2          2071   14831   607.4         20fl3       14534        3080
TOTML Soc                              12051   21358    76.9         12087   1809    35.6          32364       20733        14059
APPICATIIN
Castnactic  Program
Eistting                                   0        0   *A.              0        0                                             O.A.    0
uaa        V                             569    2443   352.1           461    3462   737.7          009         5093         2449
Ploy"                                   7742    4752   -13.0          3749    6t26   114.5          4710        4122         2622
Ge1ral Plat                                76     901  10M5.5            7    1447  1563.2          1040         1659        3029
Studles                                    0       71   N.A.             0       34   NA..             0            0           0
Otbrr                                   2000    4380   119.0          3950    4009   -32.4          5461        7461        1049
Sub-Total1                             10427   14767    41.6         10267   17479    49.9         172S0       18535        19419
Interest Dering Catrnctiom               630    3089   272.2          1100   3579   223.0           5244        4125         1976
Total Cm.tructicu ftogrin              11257   17854    58.4         11305   21058    84.8         22526       24440        21595
Otber tlvwetnente                         89      317   254.2          107      46   -36.3             0            a           0
Sub-Totel                              11344   16173    40.2         11501   21124    63.7         22516       2440         2195                                        0
Increase (Deereea,) in Vorkift Cap.    620    3385   438.2             311   -2313  -553.0         10040       -3907        -7536                                       S
TOTAL AVLUCATIC                        11975   21550    $0.0         12013   10009    56.6         32544        20753       14059
surplu  (Defieit) ef Pude                  76       9  -100.0           74        0  -100.0            0            0           0
AcCwm,lt.d                               244        0  -100.0          318        a  -100.0            0            0           0



31P954S   PUBLICAS DE N08llD
GUADALUP IT 31080O ? PU10CT - UIAN I166-CO
cMA1rs(u OF ACTUL AND rouCAST  POU C  AND YUMsICL  M3DICAT2S (19S0-1989)
1o60-----                    -191-----                 -----192-----                 -----1983-----                 -----1964---
Tari-                         Tari-                         Varia-.                        Varn-                         V rU_-
"AX   Actual  ticn K          BAR   Actual  tios I          S"X   Actual  tion I           "AX   Actual  tics I          "It  Actul  tic  I
loon (OWk
Grom Gosnration                          4924    4930      0.1         4924    4557    -7.5           5447    537      -1.2         54U7    5098    -4.7          3954    4569   -23.3
Purnches  ftir  ISA                       565      285   -49.4          580      392   -32.4           989     394   -40.2          1717      977   -43.1         2034    2509    27.7
Wa1s to ISA                             112       640   -25.1          79       454   -41.U          1323     9      -2S .0        1653    1023   -38.0          2001    1645    -7.6
Total                                    4349    4375      0.1         4726      495    -4.9          3112    4820    -5.7          5530    5050   -J.7           59s    5323   -11.1
Sale Witbhot ISA ((M)                    3473    355    -3.1          3992    5709    -7.1           4336    3942    -9.1          4713    4190   -11.1          5120    4368   -14.7
Loaose  (I of total)                       19       22    15.8            16      17    -5.4            18      22    21.2            17       21    23.5           17       22    29.4
rimb   of Castowere (000)                 2U       297      3.6          296     314      5.4          310     331      4.6          323      344     7.1          in       344     S.7
ren of wloyeoo   (000)                   1916    1599   -1.S          1979    1705   -11.4           204U    1922    -S.1          2124    2161      2.7         2302    2301      0.0
Custome   per mlpoo                       149      191    28.2           151     169    25.2           152      175    15.1          152      159     4.4          144      156     6.2
, Sale. per Eloy" (QE)                   1915    2241    17.0          2017    2235    Ii'.           2120    2051    -3.3          2219    1921   -13.4          2224    1696   -14.7
Rate of Rotru
Oper atig Ico                            1704    1538    -9.7          2627    1929   -31.6           4970    2796   .43.7          4157    4775   -22.4          4351    4769   -24.9
Resaluod Set Av*rm" Aeata In
Operatic                                21612   226"       4.8        246S   29576    10.0           32059   34416    14.2         37940   44490    18.3         52135   54002      3.8
Yearly lets of latuzu                     7.9      6.8   -13.9          10.5     4.5   -38.1          15.5     7.4   -51.0          14.2    10.6   -34.4          12.2      6.6   -27.9
Dsbt
Grorm Cach GeneoretiMlDbt Servies
SDC +  1uwost_sto In ISA                 1.05      1.5    42.9          1.8      1.7    _5.6           1.9     1.4   -15 .           2.2      1.5   -31.8          2.4      1.2   -53.6
DehtlMquity latio                          49       42   -14.3            49      39   -20.4            52      40   -23.1            49       47    -4.1           49       59    20.4
*elf riamacing Ratio (K)                   47       54    14.9            45      55    22.2            45      42   -35.4            52       34   -34.4           57       25   -56.1
Aecouts Receivable as I of
Annul Saes                              19.17   20.04      4.6        19.17   23.63    23.3          19.17   24.69    28.6         19.17   16.61    -1.9         19.17   22.76    18.7
Currmt Ratio                              1.6      4.2   133.3           1.7     4.1   141.2           1.9     2.6    47.4           1.9      2.1    10.5          1.9      1.7   -10.5       §
00
Dsprciatioa
As Z of Avorage Croes Plant                                                                                                                                                                   11
In Operatioc                              3.6      3.3    -9.7           3.7     3.2   -12.8           3.6     3.2   -11.3           3.6      3.1   -14.4          3.3      3.1    -7.0       Go



COLOSIA
DfISA   PUILICAS DE I       UELLI
GUADLUP1 IT R1D  POWER ?Z0cr  - LOAM 1866-CO
CWARISO  C  ACTUAL AND rOREAST  MUPOWAN     AM FuNCIAL IDICATOS (1980-1989)
(cootioutlon)
5-----                   -----1986_-----                1687         1988         W969
Varl-                         lara -
Su    Actual  tion I          SA    Actual  tion I        Actual       Actuli       Actual
USMT (G%)
Gross Gerstioa                           6474    5166   -19.9          7696    5559   -29.6          6049         5430         6740
Purchases froe ISA                       2036    2116      4.0         2036    1043   -48.8             47         t45           lis
Sales to ISA                             2036    1725   -15.4          2752      672   -73.6             0            0           0
Total                                    6472    5579   -13.6          7160    5930   -17.4          6088         657*         6639
Sal  witbhout ISA (GVh)                  5561    4545   -18.3          6040    4684   -19.1          5294         5525         57 4
Losse*  (2 of total)                       16       23    41.6            16      21    31.3            15           19           19
rambr of Custcers (000)                   346      367    11.2          360      414    15.0           441          467         493
amber of r-loyes (000)                   2360    2499      5.0         2445    2552       4.4         2668        2664         2811
Custmrs per Eploye                        146      155     6.2          147      162    10.2           165          lI6          175
nergy sales per V°'qlo-  (1Wb)           2337    1819   -22.2          2470    1914   -22.5           2004        2104         2073
Rate of Returs
Operatig bacom                           7014    6117    15.7          9865   10668       8.1        16633        1609t       20860
lalued Not Average Assets in
Operatics                               66439   71796      4.9        96073   93969    -2.1         120367       194845      290792
Terly Rate of Return                     10.2    11.3    10.8           10.1    11.1      9.9         13.6          9.3          7.2
Debt
Gross Cash Gewratole/Debt Service-
LDC + lawvstmnts In ISA                   2.2      1.3   -40.9          2.4      1.2   -50.0           1.5          1.1         0.9
Debt/Equity Ratio                          47      100   112.6           41      138   236.6           162          124          119
Self Financing Ratio (2)                   59       30   -49.2           63       22   -73.5            40           47          52
Accounts Receivable as I of
Aal Sales                                19.2    10.3   -46.4           19.2    14.5   -24.5          14.6         13.6          6.9
Current Ratio                             2.0      2.1     5.0           1.6     1.4   -22.2           2.2          1.6          1.1
00
D-preclatiou                                                                                                                                                              5
An I of Average Gross Plant                                                                                                                                                °
in Operation                              3.6      3.0   -15.6          3.1      5.1      0.3          5.1          2.6          3.1                                       E1
Go1>



