Document of               FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2779-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
EMPRESAS PUBLICAS DE MEDELLIN
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
GUADALUPE IV HYDRO POWER PROJECT
May 19, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average Calendar 1978               Average Calendar 1979
Currency Unit  =  Peso - Col$                    Col$
US$1            =  Col$39.25                     42.06
Col$1           =  US$0.0255                     0.0238
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            2    =  3.281 feet (ft)        2
1 square kilometSr (km )   =  0.386 square mile (mi3)
1 cubic meter (m )          =  35.315 cubic feet (ft )
"1                    =  264.2 gallons (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)             =  2.206 pounds (lb)
1 ton (t;metric;1,000 kg)  =  1.100 short tonS (sh. togs)
1 kilowatt (kW)             =  1,000 Watts (10  kW = 10  W)
i kilowatt-hour (kWh)       =  830.3 kilocalories (kcal)
1 Megawatt (MW)             =  1,000 kW (106 kW = 109 W)
1 Gigawatt (GW)             =  1,000 MW (10  kW = 10  W)
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)       =  1,000,000 kWh (10  kWh)
1 kilovolt (kV)             =  1,000 Volts (V)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CORELCA  =      Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica
cVC      =     Corporacion Autonoma Regional del Valle del Rio Cauca
DNP      =     National Planning Department
EEEB     =      Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
EMCALI   =      Empresas Municipales de Cali
EPM      =      Empresas Publicas de Medellin
ICEL     =      Instituto Colombiano de Energia Electrica
IDB      =     Inter-American Development Bank
ISA      =     Interconexion Electrica S.A.
JNT      =     Junta Nacional de Tarifas de Servicios Publicos
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOK uiFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
GUADALUPE IV HYDRO POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Empresas Publicas de Medellin (EPM)
Guarantor:           Republic of Colombia
Amount:              US$125 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in seventeen years, including four years
of grace at 8.25% interest per annum.
Project
Description:       The project would assist the Government of the State of
Antioquia in providing required electricity service to
facilitate continued industrial and commercial growth in
Medellin and its environs. The project would also enable
the connection of about 75,000 further households in this
area and expand the supply of electricity to rural centers.
Another important objective of the project would be to
permit the substitution of relatively inexpensive hydro-
based power for costly and unreliable electricity from
small diesel plants. The project consists of: (a) the
addition of a 213 MW hydroelectric generating plant,
Guadalupe IV; (b) the construction of 150 km of trans-
mission lines; (c) the expansion of 5-6 existing substations;
(d) the construction of 4-5 new ones; and (e) the rehabili-
tation and expansion of EPM's electricity distribution
network; the project also includes construction of a
regional energy control center which would enable EPM to
participate in the least-cost operation of the national
power system. Finally, through a training program for
highly specialized staff, EPM's technical capability would
be strengthened. Tariff measures provided for under the
project would support the Government's objective of
sound sector financing and economic structure of tariffs
to promote rational energy use. The project is subject
to the risks associated with civil works in difficult
terrain. However, all appropriate safeguards have been
provided for and the project is expected to be carried
out as scheduled.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost (net of taxes):              Local       Foreign      Total
--(US$ million equivalent)--
Guadalupe IV Hydro Station            28.4           58.3        86.7
Transmission Lines                     3.0            7.5        10.5
Substatiuas                            2.1           10.1        12.2
Control Center                         0.3            5.9         6.2
Distribution and Equipment             2.4           11.1        13.5
Engineering, Administration, Study  8.8               2.1        10.9
Training                               0.3            0.8         1.1
Base Cost                           45.3          95.8       141.1
Physical Contingencies               6.8          12.1         18.9
Price Contingencies                 21.0          47.3        68.3
Total Project Cost            73.1          155.2       228.3
Note:  During the period 1980-84, EPM will carry out other power investments
with an estimated cost of US$347 million equivalent (including interest
during construction). It will also require an increase in working
capital estimated at US$39 million equivalent and will invest approxi-
mately US$81 million equivalent in Interconexion Electrica, S.A., in
which it is a shareholder.
Project Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign      Total
--(US$ million equivalent)--
Internal Cash Generation              73.1            -          73.1
Proposed IBRD Loan                      -          125.0        125.0
Suppliers' Credits/Other External
Borrowings                           -          30.2         30.2
73.1        155.2        228.3
1980-86 Investment Program Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign      Total
--(US$ million equivalent)--
Internal Cash Generation             533.0            -        533.0
Local Borrowings                      25.6            -          25.6
Existing IBRD Loan (874-CO)             -            3.9          3.9
Proposed IBRD Loan for
Guadalupe IV                          -         125.0        125.0
Suppliers' Credits/Other
External Borrowings                  7.5        227.8        235.3
Total                    566.1        356.7        922.8
Rate of Return (Financial): 13%
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2938b-CO, dated May 16, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
EMPRESAS PUBLICAS DE MEDELLIN WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA FOR THE
GUADALUPE IV HYDRO POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Empresas Publicas de Medellin, with the guarantee of the Republic of
Colombia, for the equivalent of US$125 million to help finance the Guadalupe
IV Hydro Power Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including
four years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report on Colombia (2535-CO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in June 1979. A small updating mission visited Colombia
in mid-December and this section on the economy reflects its major findings.
Country data sheets are provided in Annex I.
Background
3.        Colombia has made substantial progress over the past two decades in
the transition from a predominantly rural and agricultural economy scattered
among several isolated, but largely self-contained, regions to a more inte-
grated, urban industrial economy. The productive base of the economy has been
widened and diversified, and a modern sector relying heavily on imported
inputs has developed. The country's external sector has been strengthened by
the rapid growth of non-traditional exports. Fluctuations in domestic economic
conditions resulting from unpredictable shifts in world coffee prices, while
still considerable, have become more manageable.
4.        Following several years of erratic economic growth and high unemploy-
ment, the Colombian authorities introduced in 1967 a dramatic change in devel-
opment policy, shifting emphasis from a protectionist policy of import substi-
tution to measures designed to expand and diversify exports. With only minor
modifications, this export promotion strategy remained in effect until the
mid-1970s. These policies were successful in expanding non-coffee exports,
thereby alleviating the foreign exchange constraint to growth and making
possible a higher level of investment. As a consequence, real GDP growth
accelerated to an average 6.5% p.a. between 1968 and 1974, well above the
historic average, and non-coffee merchandise exports rose nearly threefold.
5.        Despite these advances, the economy showed signs of deteriorating
by late 1974. This was largely the result of slower growth in the industrial
economies, an inelastic tax system and imported inflation which led to a
weakening of the public finances and balance of payments and an acceleration
1/   This section is unchanged from that included in the President's Report for
the Bogota Power Distribution Project (Report No. 2676-CO).



- 2 -
of domestic inflation. In addition, the country was faced with a pending loss
of self-sufficiency in petroleum, its primary energy source. These develop-
ments prompted the authorities to introduce a stabilization program, accom-
panied by basic reforms of the fiscal, monetary and trade systems aimed at
restoring the basis for accelerated long-term growth. Concurrently, petroleum
pricing policy was modified to improve incentives for oil exploration and
development and policies were initiated to reduce the subsidy on local consump-
tion of petroleum products. These reforms were successful in improving the
public finances and reducing inflation in 1975, but initially caused economic
growth to slow (from 6.0% in 1974 to 3.8% in 1975) as the economy adjusted to
the changing domestic and international circumstances.
Recent Economic Developments
6.        During the three years 1976-78 the Colombian economy was subject to
severe inflationary pressures which caused the Government to focus economic
policy on short term stabilization rather than on long term development issues.
The origin of these pressures was the exceptionally high world coffee price
prevailing during this period which caused Colombia's export earnings from
coffee to increase to US$1.8 billion and US$2.1 billion in 1977 and 1978,
respectively (from an average US$725 million in 1974-75), producing an unpre-
cedented rise in incomes and internal demand. The supply of consumer goods,
particularly of basic foodstuffs which was adversely affected by drought
conditions in most of the country, lagged behind the growth in demand and
inflation accelerated to the unprecedented rate of 44% in the twelve months
ending June 1977, from 26% the preceding year. The authorities responded
rapidly by introducing a broad range of fiscal, monetary and trade policies
designed to gain control over the explosive increase in prices. As a conse-
quence of these measures and of a favorable second semester harvest, inflation
declined sharply throughout most of the following 18 months, with the annual
inflation rate leveling off at 29% in 1977 and falling to 18% in 1978.
7.        Because of the lack of dynamism in world markets and modest increases
in domestic investment, the Colombian economy expanded only moderately in 1976
and 1977, with real GDP growing by 4.6% and 4.8%, respectively, in those two
years. In 1978, however, real GDP rose by an estimated 8.5% in response to
continued strong growth in aggregate demand, supported by expanded private
investment financed increasingly through a rapidly growing extra-bank market
and by favorable agricultural conditions. Since growth was concentrated in
the relatively labor intensive sectors of the economy--personal services,
trade, transport and communications, and small-scale manufacturing and agri-
culture--unemployment declined sharply during this period. In 1978, unemploy-
ment in the four major cities averaged about 8% of the labor force, compared
with an average of about 12% a few years earlier.  Both the balance of payments
and the public finances generated large current surpluses in the 1976-78
period. Largely as a result of increased coffee export receipts, Colombia's
net official international reserves had risen from US$573 million at the end
of 1975 to US$2.5 billion by the end of 1978, equivalent to about nine months
imports of goods and non-factor services.  This increase in reserves occurred
despite nearly 12% p.a. real growth in imports and slow growth in manufactured
exports. Curbs on public investment and higher revenues from the coffee tax
and from earnings on international reserves made possible unprecedented
overall surpluses in the public finances.



-3-
8.        Despite continuation of the stabilization policies in effect since
early 1977, inflationary pressures increased somewhat in 1979. A mild frost
in Brazil's coffee areas caused world coffee prices to rise early in the
year, resulting in an acceleration in reserve accumulation and in aggregate
demand growth. Widening interest rate differentials favoring Colombia and
real appreciation of the peso generated short-term capital inflows which,
together with delays in import payments, led to further reserve increases.
Receipts from illegal exports provided an additional source of funds for the
already overly liquid economy. In all, net official reserves rose by approxi-
mately US$1.6 billion for the year, reaching the equivalent of 11 months
imports at year end. About mid-year the authorities issued a new series of
short term securities carrying highly competitive interest rates in an effort
to absorb some of the excess liquidity existing in the formal and informal
credit markets. This issue, which represents a significant break with past
open market operations that were not interest-competitive and were forced onto
financial institution portfolios, was successful in attracting funds equivalent
to 5.4% of the monetary base by year end, helping to reduce money supply growth
(M2) in the formal market from 30% in 1978 to 24% in 1979. Nevertheless, large
wage increases and higher energy costs, together with rapid growth in domestic
demand, pushed inflation up to 30% for the year. Economic growth was strong
again in 1979, with real GDP rising by an estimated 5.5%, and unemployment
remained low. Inflation has slowed thus far in 1980 (on an annual basis the
increase in the cost of living was 24.9% through March), and the Government
is committed to reducing further the rate of inflation in coming months.
Distribution and Welfare
9.        The steady gains in per capita income, together with rapid rural/
urban migration and expanded employment opportunities for women over the past
quarter century, caused a dramatic drop in the crude birth rate. The achieve-
ment of lower birth rates was facilitated by expanded family planning programs.
Consequently, Colombia's population growth rate declined sharply, from over
3% in the late 1950s, to about 2.8% in the early 1970s and to an estimated
2.1% at present. Although 66% of the population lives in urban centers,
there are now 22 cities with populations exceeding 100,000 persons. Some of
the major cities have serious transportation, housing and urban congestion
problems, however, and large numbers of persons live under poor conditions.
10.       Available evidence suggests that the welfare of all income groups
in Colombia has increased significantly since the 1950s and that the propor-
tion of the population living in absolute poverty has declined. These gains
were in part a consequence of reasonably good economic growth and of efforts
to raise welfare through investment in health, education, low income housing,
water and sewerage, and other social services. Existing data on income dis-
tribution trends present a less clear picture. It is probable that some
improvement occurred in income distribution between 1950 and the mid-1960s
as a result of a strong shift of the labor force from rural areas to higher
productivity jobs in urban industry and services and of relative wage gains
for urban unskilled workers. Accelerated inflation through the early and mid-
1970s caused real wages to increase less rapidly than returns to non-labor
factors of production. While the trends in income distribution during
this period are unclear, it seems unlikely that any significant improvement
occurred. Since 1977, however, rural wages have risen in real terms and



- 4 -
unemployment has declined notably, supporting the presumption of some
distributional improvement.
Development Strategy of the Current Administration
11.       The development strategy of the present Government is essentially
unchanged from that of the previous administration, with the most significant
variation being a greater emphasis on expanding economic and social infrastruc-
ture. The key elements of this strategy are the promotion of non-coffee
exports and investment, supported by measures to increase allocative and
productive efficiency. Factor (particularly capital) and product markets are
to be freed from unnecessary controls in order to increase efficiency and
lower costs, and tariff and non-tariff barriers to imports are to be reduced
to provide greater competition to domestic industry. These steps, along with
periodic exchange rate adjustments as required by relative cost differences,
tax rebates and favorable access to credit, are expected to provide the
stimulus for rapid growth in non-coffee exports and in private investment.
Public investment is to be accelerated, with particular stress on improving
and extending the transportation network and on resolving the country's rapidly
growing energy problem. Investments in transportation are expected to lower
freight costs substantially and those in telecommunications to facilitate
economic activity as well as to minimize the unnecessary use of transport;
both are aimed at integrating regional growth centers into a national market.
Complementary measures to encourage industry to locate outside the four major
metropolitan areas have been introduced.
12.       Raising investment and productivity in agriculture and industry are
important objectives of the Government's plans to expand growth and employment.
Substantial increases in credit are being provided to agriculture. Extension
programs are to be expanded to cover larger numbers of small and medium scale
farms and widened to include farm management and broader dissemination of crop
research. Innovative programs such as the integrated rural development (DRI)
and nutrition (PAN) projects financed by the Bank are expected to receive
continued high priority. Low income rural areas are to be helped through
rural electrification, health and education programs and through an expanded
feeder roads program. Industry, which is experiencing high capacity utiliza-
tion ratios because of lagging investment in recent years, is expected to
benefit from improved functioning of domestic capital markets, as controls
are eliminated from these markets, and from increased incentives for exports
as the real effective exchange rate recovers to pre-1976 levels. This, plus
increased competition from imports as tariff and non-tariff barriers are
lowered, should provide the stimulus for greater industrial investment and
bring about more rapid technological change.
13.       Projections of Colombia's energy balance indicate a rapidly growing
deficit which is expected to reach significant proportions in the mid-1980s
in the absence of an aggressive energy development program. High priority is
being given to the development of additional energy resources in order to
avoid the constraint on growth that large scale shortages of energy would
entail. The strategy adopted is designed to reduce the country's dependence
on petroleum as an energy source by developing substitutes. Major projects



- 5 -
are being executed and others prepared to expand hydroelectric power genera-
tion, and incentives are being given to private foreign companies for accel-
erated exploration and development of the country's petroleum, coal and
natural gas potential. Exports of coal and natural gas are expected to offset
a large portion of the petroleum imports projected for the mid to late 1980s.
Higher energy prices are expected to slow the growth in energy demand. While
the total investment cost of future energy development is still being deter-
mined, preliminary estimates indicate that the required investment could run
as high as US$8.0 billion in 1979 prices over the next decade. Even under the
most optimistic assumptions regarding development of energy resources, however,
Colombia will continue to rely heavily on energy imports until the mid-1980s
when exports of coal and natural gas begin to reduce the nation's net energy
deficit.
14.       With Colombia's long term growth prospects enhanced by the increased
availability of foreign exchange and with inflation expected to moderate, the
authorities are beginning to focus policies on a number of issues that need to
be addressed if the country is to achieve its full growth potential and poverty
is to be alleviated at a more rapid pace. These issues include the reduced
competitiveness of Colombian goods in external markets brought about in recent
years by the relatively high domestic inflation uncompensated by foreign
exchange adjustments, and the slow modernization and lowered efficiency of
domestic industry resulting from low investment levels and limited foreign
competition. Public investment has not increased significantly in the past
few years and domestic resource mobilization is still insufficient, particu-
larly in comparison to the expansion required in public investment. While
income distribution and welfare trends appear favorable, substantial efforts
will have to be made to reduce the widespread poverty still existing in the
country.
15.       Economic policy is presently in a period of transition as the
authorities attempt to combine stabilization and growth measures so as to arrest
inflation while still permitting the economy to expand. Some advances have
already been made in dismantling the existing stabilization program and in bring-
ing about conditions favorable to increased investment and growth. For example,
the 100% marginal reserve requirement imposed on commercial banks has been
rescinded and the Government has taken a more active role in the capital market
through open market operations. The transition process, however, has been
moving slowly in certain respects and the Government recognizes the importance
of acting quickly in finding appropriate solutions to these potential constraints
to growth. Exchange rate adjustments are expected once again to become a tool
of development, rather than a component of stabilization policy, and further
measures to stimulate private investment and encourage technological change are
proposed. As inflationary pressures continue to recede, controls on interest
rates and credit, which have already been relaxed somewhat, are expected to be
further reduced as are tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade. Such measures,
once fully effective, could be expected to produce a sizeable jump in private
investment and in economic efficiency. Delays in carrying out economic and
social infrastructure investments could adversely affect growth of the pro-
ductive sectors and reduce economic welfare. Thus public investment is to be
accelerated at the maximum consistent with continued progress toward economic
stability. The Government is particularly concerned with the slow growth of
energy sector investment (with the exception of investment in hydropower).



- 6 -
Although some progress has been achieved as capital outlays by foreign oil
companies have risen as a result of more profitable wellhead prices and the
growth in demand for petroleum products has been slowed by higher retail prices,
the Government intends to advance development of the country's other energy
resources, i.e., coal and natural gas.
16.       Since in the absence of corrective measures both the current account
of the balance of payments and public sector savings are expected to weaken
over the next few years, mobilization of domestic resources to support the
strong expansion required in public investment is likely to be a critical
issue in carrying out the Government's strategy.  The authorities are already
moving ahead on this issue, having taken measures to improve tax administration
and enforcement and to generate resources through large real increases in
charges for public services. Additional tax measures will probably be needed,
however. Capital market improvements, including realistic interest rates on
savings deposits, are expected to stimulate private savings. These efforts are
being complemented by measures to encourage the production of basic foodstuffs--
which weigh heavily in the consumer market basket--as a means of reducing infla-
tionary pressures and moderating inflationary expectations, which should have a
further favorable effect on savings.
17.       Given the country's strong resource base and with continued sound
economic management, Colombia is expected to achieve annual real GDP growth
averaging about 6% during the 1980-85 period. However, because of the expected
decline in coffee prices and with accelerating oil imports and the high import
content of future investment, the current account of the balance of payments
is expected to be in deficit throughout the early to mid-1980s. Colombia is
expected, therefore, to continue to be a large net importer of capital for
some time to come. Even assuming that the Colombian authorities permit a
drawdown of international reserves to the equivalent of three months' imports
in the years immediately ahead, gross external capital requirements are
projected at US$10 billion between 1980 and 1985, or an annual average of
about US$1.7 billion. An increasing proportion of this capital inflow is
expected to be provided by foreign commercial and financial sources.
18.       Colombia's public external debt repayable in foreign currency amounted
to an estimated US$4.4 billion at the end of 1978, equivalent to about 18% of
GDP, of which US$2.8 billion was disbursed and outstanding. The Bank/IDA share
of this external debt was 26.5% in 1978. Because of the expected decline in
commitments from bilateral sources and corresponding recent acceleration in Bank
lending, this share is expected to exceed 30% in the early 1980s, before falling
to about 27% by 1985. Although the public debt service ratio fell in recent years
as export growth accelerated, this ratio is expected to increase from 10% in 1978
to about 15% in 1985. The World Bank's share in public debt service is expected
to rise to 26% in 1985 from 24% in 1978. Balance of payments prospects beyond
the early 1980s will depend heavily on the timely development of domestic energy
sources and on progress made in executing several natural resource-based export-
oriented projects currently under preparation. Given the expected continuation
of sound economic and financial management and timely execution of the country's
energy program, Colombia is considered creditworthy for the required external
borrowing on conventional terms.



PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
19.       The proposed loan, the 88th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$2,707.6 million (net of cancella-
tions). Of this amount the Bank held, as of March 31, 1980, US$1,924.1
million; IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in 1961. Disburse-
ments have been completed on 49 loans and the IDA credit. During 1972-77
disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, then declined
slightly to US$74 million in 1978 but increased sharply to US$135 million
in 1979. The improved performance of social sector institutions in the
execution of Bank-financed projects, the gradual containment of inflationary
pressures which should allow relaxation of fiscal restraint and the recent
Bank lending for infrastructure projects, all point to higher levels of
disbursements in the future. IFC has made investments and underwriting com-
mitments of US$53.9 million in 24 enterprises and, as of March 31, 1980,
it held US$16.5 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans,
the IDA credit and IFC investments as of March 31, 1980. The Annex also
contains summaries on the execution of the 36 ongoing projects.
20.       In response to the priority objectives established by successive
Governments (self-sustained economic growth, increased employment and improved
income distribution), since 1966, Bank lending to Colombia has become increas-
ingly diversified and has been concentrated on production-oriented programs
and activities which emphasized social as well as economic benefits.
All three loans for education have been made during this period, and so have
twelve of the fourteen loans for industry, eleven of the thirteen agricultural
loans, one loan for a nutrition project, two loans for urban development
projects and all nine loans for water supply and sewerage. During the same
period, fifteen loans were made in the power and transport sectors, while
before 1966, twenty-two out of a total of twenty-five loans were made to
these sectors.
21.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY79 consisted of two loans each for
water supply/sewerage and power, and one each for urban development, aviation
development and agricultural credit, totalling US$311.5 million equivalent.
In addition to the loan proposed in this report, the FY80 program includes
already approved loans for a nickel project, telecommunications, power dis-
tribution, and credit to small-scale industry and to development finance
companies for medium and large-scale industry. Work is also under way on
projects for secondary oil recovery and exploration, land settlement,
vocational training, agro-industries, railways, ports, feeder and rural
roads, further mining development, power (including village electrification),
irrigation, agricultural credit, water supply and sewerage, urban development
and environmental improvement, for possible consideration by the Executive
Directors during the next two years.



- 8 -
22.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy which is attuned to the requirements of the era that
began with the 1973 price rise of internationally traded petroleum. To help
Colombia develop domestic sources of energy, a sizeable part of the proposed
lending would be for hydropower. The Bank intends to assist the development
of coal mine., and petroleum, which hold potential in helping Colombia meet
part of its energy requirements and in diversifying exports. Bank involvement
in the energy sector would help mobilize additional external financing as some
of the projects would require co-financing. Other future loans would finance
agriculture and industry (including agro-industry) to assist the Government in
its efforts to raise overall productivity, income and employment, and to
strengthen and diversify exports. Closely related to these objectives would
be the proposed Bank lending for transport infrastructure. In this context,
the Bank is assisting the Government in preparing a rural and feeder roads
project to integrate the more backward areas of the country into the modern
economy. Other loans under preparation for ports and railroads are aimed at
helping Colombia handle larger volumes of non-traditional exports and the
imported inputs on which the modern sector of its economy relies for expansion.
Lending for telecommunications would assist the Government in its efforts to
integrate cities and towns into the national economy and reduce the congestion
in existing networks. Finally, a relatively large number of loans are
being prepared in support of the Government's efforts to help the lowest 50%
of the Colombian population. Lending for urban development and slum improve-
ment, rural electrification, agricultural credit, land settlement, water
supply and sewerage, irrigation and environmental improvement projects is
principally designed to improve the standard of living of the poor.
23.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex I.
While IBRD, IDB, and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total external
financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased since
then to approximately 50% for the 1975-77 period and it is expected that
during the period 1979-83 this share will decline further to about 38% of
external capital requirements. Like the Bank, IDB has given increased emphasis
to social projects and has financed projects in low cost housing, urban and
rural development, agrarian reform, university education, water supply, rural
electrification and land erosion control. In the future, it proposes to
assist Colombia to develop sources of domestic energy and to expand the
activity of the productive sectors to help generate increased employment.
USAID has supported programs in education, urban development and small farm
development, but is phasing out its aid program in Colombia over the next
few years with about US$10 million remaining to be disbursed on previous
loans. The Governments of Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany and the
Netherlands have also provided concessional financing for social and regional
integration projects.



- 9 -
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND POWER REQUIREMENTS
Energy Resources and Requirements
24.       Colombia is endowed with substantial primary energy resources
(hydropower, natural gas, petroleum and coal). Low cost hydropower, with a
potential estimated at 100 GW, has been developed on a limited basis to date
(3 GW). Coal resources are believed to be considerable, with reserves ranging
from 10-40 billion metric tons of both steaming and coking coal, but explora-
tion has been insufficient. The coal deposits identified are reported to be of
high quality, characterized by high caloric and low sulfur content. A recent
discovery of natural gas in the Guajira Peninsula, amounting to 3.5 trillion
cubic feet, has brought proven reserves to a level well above 4 trillion cubic
feet. However, known reserves of crude oil have been falling for several years
and are estimated to last less than 13 years at present extraction rates. Of
the country's 13 sedimentary basins, few have been systematically explored;
thus, there is potential for new oil discoveries. In an attempt to find addi-
tional crude oil reserves, the state-owned oil company, ECOPETROL, in part with
proposed Bank financing, plans to investigate several basins and undertake de-
tailed explorations of promising areas. It is also carrying out explorations
and development in association with foreign oil companies.
25.       Since 1965, output of primary energy has lagged behind overall
economic growth, mainly because of declining crude oil output. By 1978,
production of crude (267 trillion Btu) had fallen to 65% of 1965 output.
While during 1965-78 total energy output increased by 12%, from 578 trillion
Btu to 650 trillion Btu annually, energy consumption increased by 132%, rising
from 271 trillion Btu to 628 trillion Btu. (Exports and losses account for
the difference between production and consumption figures.) By 1979, hydro-
carbon imports exceeded exports by US$362 million equivalent. Projections
of Colombia's energy balance indicate an expanding deficit that could become
so large in the 1980s as to become a constraint on economic growth
(paragraphs 13 and 15).
Energy Development Objectives and Strategy
26.       As stated, the Government's objective is to overcome the energy
deficit by developing domestic energy sources and by promoting rational use
of them. To this end, it has adopted several measures. First, it has recast
its hydrocarbon pricing and regulation policy to stimulate output of petro-
leum, natural gas and coal. Foreign oil companies, in response to these
measures, have initiated new explorations based on association contracts
(paragraph 15). Second, the Government has been moving domestic consumer
prices for hydrocarbons toward international levels, and has adopted a policy
calling for charging consumers the full cost of electric energy, in order to
promote efficient energy use and self-generate an important share of the
financing required for investment (paragraph 31). Third, CARBOCOL, a Government
agency established to develop the country's coal resources, has concluded
contracts with various foreign companies to explore and develop several coal
fields, particularly El Cerrejon, in the Guajira region. Fourth, considerable



- 10 -
substitution of gas for petroleum products in industry and thermal power
generation is being carried out on the Atlantic Coast. Fifth, a program for
rapid expansion of power generation and transmission facilities to meet
forecast demand over the 1978-85 period is being carried out. Lastly,
the Government has concluded a contract with the French Minatome Group to
explore the country's uranium potential. Although these measurps have already
yielded positive results, the Government recognizes that its planning and
policy efforts have been insufficiently coordinated among the various energy
subsectors. To remedy this, the Government has begun a study to evaluate the
country's options in developing domestic energy resources (mainly hydro-power,
coal, oil and natural gas). The study will also focus on the policy measures
that can maximize the benefits to be derived from recommended investments,
based on least cost solutions. The Bank is working closely with the Government
in this endeavor and would continue to do so during implementation of the
proposed project. In the interim, the project would assist the Government in
increasing output of low-cost hydroelectric energy.
The Power Market, Service Levels and Institutional Framework
27.       Electric power is the fastest-growing form of energy use in Colombia.
Its share of total energy consumption has risen from 14% in 1960 to 23% in
1978. Colombia's installed capacity at the end of 1978 was about 3,900 MW,
including self production; hydro stations account for 69% of total power
generated. Since 1971, production of electricity has been growing at an
annual rate of 9.7%, i.e., one and a half times as fast as the growth rate of
GDP. Power sales have also been rising rapidly (9.2% per annum since 1972).
Annual per capita electricity generation stands at 670 kWh, which is below the
average for Latin America. Households (44% of the total), industry (32%) and
commerce (14%) are the major electricity users.
28.       About 62% of Colombia's 25.2 million population has electric power,
compared to 26% in 1950 and 45% in 1970. The urban population, comprising
about 66% of the population, has greater access to electricity. 1/ In 1976,
for example, 85% of households in large cities (population of 50,000 or more)
had electrical service while in rural towns (population between 500-2,500) the
corresponding figure was 36%; in other rural areas, 16%. With the assistance
of external lenders, the Government is carrying out programs to increase the
supply of electricity to rural areas.
29.       The Ministry of Mines and Energy is charged with formulating
national policy for power generation, transmission and distribution. In
defining investment priorities, it shares responsibility with the National
Planning Department (DNP). The Government cannot enforce its policies directly
on the municipally controlled power companies, but Interconexion Electrica,
S.A. (ISA), a generating and transmission company, of which the shareholders
are the largest municipal power companies and the Government-owned national
1/   Residents of cities with 2,500 or more inhabitants.



- 11 -
power companies, 1/ provides a mechanism for reaching agreement on major
issues affecting the sector. ISA defines the generation and transmission
expansion program for the interconnected s)stem; after approval by DNP, this
becomes the national power expansion program. Public utility tariffs are
regulated by the Junta Nacional de Tarifas de Servicios Publicos (JNT) in
DNP. JNT, which was established in the late sixties with Bank support, has
the power to approve requests from the power companies for tariff increases.
The power companies, however, are free to set rates lower than those approved.
Power Development and Its Financing
30.       Colombia's power sector has developed rapidly.  Between 1950-1977
installed generating capacity increased by 3,690 MW or about sixteenfold,
electricity service has been provided to one-third more of the population
(paragraph 28) and the task of interconnecting the country's regional systems
to form an integrated national network is nearing completion (paragraph 39).
A substantial part of this expansion was financed with internal cash generation
(in the case of the large municipal companies, about 40% of total capital outlays)
and with contributions from the National Treasury, chiefly to ICEL, CVC and
CORELCA. The Bank and IDB were the main sources of foreign financing for the
power sector, although in recent years suppliers' credits and external
commercial banks have increased their participation.
31.       During 1971-74, power tariff adjustments lagged behind cost increases
and the companies' finances deteriorated, with the result that construction
of needed works was delayed and the operating efficiency of the companies
suffered. However, investment outlays have picked up sharply since 1977, when
the Government and the major power companies initiated a program of tariff
increases with the aim of generating an adequate portion of investment funds
for planned expansion (paragraph 26). They propose to continue adjusting
tariffs as necessary to generate sufficient resources for investment. Also,
to promote rational energy use, the power companies and the Government, under the
San Carlos I Hydro Power Project (1582-CO), are studying the internal structure
of rates with a view toward bringing them more in line with the cost of supply
to each consumer category. The study is taking into account the Government's
social welfare policies with respect to rates to be charged to low income
consumers, which include cross-subsidies between the high and low income
electricity users (paragraph 56).
Power Requirements and Proposed Investments
32.       To catch up with rising power requirements, in view of the under-
investment in new facilities during the first half of the 1970s and to sub-
stitute some electricity for more costly forms of energy, effective generating
1/   Empresas Publicas de Medellin (EPM), Empresa de Energia Electrica de Bogota
(EEEB), Corporacion Electrica de la Costa Atlantica (CORELCA), Corporacion
Autonoma Regional del Valle del Rio Cauca (CVC), and Instituto Colombiano
de Energia Electrica (ICEL).



- 12 -
capacity is planned to be increased by 115%, or about 4,300 MW, by 1985.
Of this total, about 3,200 MW are under construction.
33.       Investments in generation and transmission through 1985 are expected
to amount to about US$4.2 billion in mid-1979 prices, of which some 60% would
be foreign exchange. Thus, in accordance with national policy of financing
only foreign-costs with external borrowings, external financing on the order
of US$600 million equivalent on average per annum, in nominal terms, would be
required. A substantial share of such borrowings is expected to come from
foreign capital markets, which have recently been providing increased financing
to the power sector, including to Bank-financed projects. Future distribution
investments are estimated to amount to at least 25% of total investments.
34.       To provide for future sector expansion, ISA and its shareholders,
under San Carlos I, are preparing a Master Plan for generation and transmission
facilities covering the period 1980-1990 in detail, and 1991-2000 in more
general terms. This plan is being supplemented by a Master Plan for distri-
bution covering the same period. This combined effort should encourage
not only improved investment planning but also greater attention to system
design, operation and maintenance in light of modern techniques with a view
toward enhancing the quality and reliability of service to consumers. Overall,
the consolidated master plan is expected to provide a valuable framework for
long-range decisions on sector expansion, including rural electrification,
financing and pricing.
Recent Sector Developments
35.       In recognition of the power sector's important role in Colombia's
development process, in the mid-1970s the Government and the main power
companies established a framework, the Sochagota Agreement, for orderly and
efficient sector expansion. To enable equitable sharing among the regions of
the financial burden of the large investments contemplated, to foster least-
cost development of high priority generating plants, and to assure that
adequate supply from these plants would reach all regions, the Agreement
envisaged that ISA would be responsible for planning, building and owning all
plants of national interest. Since then, ISA has functioned on this basis.
However, in 1979, the shareholders of ISA expressed reservations about the
concentration almost 70% of planned expansion in generating facilities through
1985 in the national company and the associated loss of parity among themselves
in relative generating capacity. Another worrisome aspect has been the
fact that ISA's construction capacity is nearly fully committed over the next
few years with works in progress (1,910 MW of hydro plant, numerous 230-kV
lines and a 500-kV line). These reservations have given rise to a proposal
that the four plants in ISA's 1980-85 Investment Program be constructed, owned
and operated by individual shareholders. Although these plants represent less
than 1% of the hydroelectric resources that Colombia will develop over the
next 20-30 years, the Government feels that it should maintain a sound pattern
of development and use of the country's electric energy resources. Therefore,
it has confirmed-in principle that (a) ISA would have ownership of a substan-
tial portion of total sector capacity sufficient to enable it to function



- 13 -
effectively as the planning, coordinating and future dispatch agency for the
national system, (b) the regions would continue to share, through investments
in ISA, in the cost and benefits of relatively low-cost hydro-electric resources,
which are geographically concentrated in only a few regions, and (c) viable
financing plans would precede the undertaking of any major plant investments.
The Bank has been working closely with the Government and the companies in
defining the specific long-term arrangements that would enable Colombia to
make further progress along the lines reflected in the Sochagota Agreement,
while taking due account of the realities attendant upon the heavy investments
planned. Another matter under discussion between the Government and the Bank
has been the rapid growth in overdue payments to ISA by the largely rural-based
ICEL, which depends upon national budgetary resources to meet a substantial
portion of its financial obligations to ISA. The Government realizes that, if
not resolved, this problem could constrain the sector's development capacity.
Thus, in seeking a means to overcome it, it is actively considering the
establishment of an Electricity Development Fund to assist in financing the
sector's development (a surtax on electricity use would be the principal
source of revenue for the fund).
The Power Market of Medellin and of the Surrounding Area
36.       Medellin is the capital and principal center of Antioquia, the
most heavily populated state in Colombia. Medellin and its immediate
suburbs, situated in the Aburra Valley of the Central Mountain range, account
for about one-half of the department's estimated 3.5 million people.
Colombia's industrialization began in Medellin which for many years was the
leading industrial and commercial center in the country. Though it has been
overtaken by the rapidly growing Bogota, it is still the major industrial
center for production of a large range of commodities, including textiles,
garments and leather goods, and accounts for about 23% of the country's
industrial employment and 19% of its output. Surrounding Medellin is also a
rich agricultural area farmed by notably efficient small owner-operators (many
of whom are being provided with assistance under a loan for Integrated Rural
Development, 1352-CO) producing flowers, beans, vegetables and a variety
of other food crops. Colombia's major coffee producing region is also nearby.
37.       The area within about a 35 km radius of Medellin includes a large
number of towns ranging in population from about 10,000 to over 100,000
inhabitants. These towns have been growing rapidly since the physical growth
potential of Medellin is approaching its limits. Two major developments are
expected to influence greatly the spatial development of the entire southern
region of the department. Construction of a new Medellin airport at Rio
Negro, in the valley adjacent to the Aburra Valley, is currently underway with
the assistance of a Bank loan (1624-CO). An industrial and free trade zone is
also planned for construction close to the airport. Together, these develop-
ments are expected to result in a rapid growth of industry, population,
housing and services. Another urban complex is also planned north of Medellin
adjacent to Bello, a town with over 100,000 population, which may nearly
double the population of that area by 1990. The demand for public services,
including electricity, can be expected to grow rapidly in areas further away
from Medellin.



- 14 -
38.       EPM supplies electricity to the city of Medellin, to 35 of the
above-mentioned towns and, through sales to the Electrificadora de Antioquia,
to 67 small municipalities. In 1978, EPM served directly 270,000 customers,
plus a further 100,000 users through sales to the Electrificadora, who in
that same year consumed 3,035 GWh. Households (44%), industrial (30%),
commercial (7%) and bulk sales (14%) are EPM's major customers   Reflecting
the robust growth of industrial, commercial and agricultural activity, the
company's sales have been growing rapidly at an annual rate of 9.6% since
1968. For the reasons cited above, it is expected that EPM's sales will
continue to grow during the period 1978-86 (about 9% per annum). To serve the
expanding market and improve the coverage and quality of services in rural
areas, EPM will undertake substantial investments in new facilities, both
directly and through participation in ISA. The expansion program (1980-86)
includes the proposed project, which would enable EPM to increase its generat-
ing capacity, subtransmission and distribution system, to supply inexpensive
electricity to rural areas in place of some costly and unreliable power now
provided from small local diesel plants, and to provide part of the electricity
required by the interconnected system. Further, the construction of a regional
energy control center would enable EPM to participate, together with ISA and
its other partners, in an effort to achieve least-cost operation of the
national electricity network. Finally, the capability of EPM's professional
staff would be enhanced under the project.
Bank Participation in the Power Sector
39.       Since 1950, the Bank has supported Colombia's power sector with
loans totalling US$763 million which have assisted the expansion of generating
capacity and transmission and distribution facilities in the systems serving
Bogota, Medellin, Cali, Cartagena, Bucaramanga and Manizales, including
expansion of electricity distribution to low income areas (874-CO, 1973).
The recently approved Bogota Power Distribution Project (US$87 million,
March 1980) is the first Bank loan to Colombia to support exclusively distribu-
tion expansion and, in addition to other beneficiaries, would directly benefit
about 340,000 lower income consumers. In addition, the Bank has supported
rural electrification under 246-CO (1960) and 313-CO (1962) and under the
ongoing Integrated Rural Development Project (1352-CO, 1977). The most recent
loans included the 500-kV Interconnection Line (1583-CO, 1978) and the San
Carlos I and II Hydropower Projects (Loans 1582-CO, 1978; 1725-CO, 1979) which
would, respectively, complete the task of interconnecting the country's
regional power systems begun under 575-CO (1968), and add 1240 MW of capacity
to the national interconnected system. EEEB's Mesitas Hydropower Project
(1628-CO, 1979) would meet about 95% of projected incremental demand in the
Bogota system during 1982-84.  Taken together, the abovementioned projects
reflect the Bank's participation in overall power development in Colombia,
from the planning stage through financing and construction of generation and
transmission facilities, to delivery of service to the final consumer. It is
envisaged that the proposed project would be followed in the coming year by a
project in support of village electrification in northern Colombia and further
projects for hydro power development to assist Colombia in developing renewable
domestic sources of energy.



- 15 -
40.        Past Bank lending to Colombia's power sector has been found gen-
erally successful in several OED reports. For instance, the most recent
report, "Power Interconnection (Loan 575-CO) and Chivor Hydroelectric Projects
(Loan 681-CO)" (Report No. 2720, October 29, 1979), commented upon the Bank's
participation in Colombia's successful effort to evolve a stronger and more
efficient power sector organization. Through the creation of ISA in conjunc-
tion with these projects, and the steps taken to overcome financial and
institutional difficulties, real progress was made toward more coordinated
sector development. Despite implementation delays and increased costs, both
projects were successfully implemented. Also, the report entitled "Bank
Operations in Colombia, an Evaluation" (Report No. Z-18) of May 25, 1972,
concluded that Bank financing was successful in assisting the power companies
to develop hydroelectric plants at lower unit cost than they otherwise would
have been able to do. In turn, this permitted greater urban coverage as well
as cheaper and more reliable electricity to supply to industry. The report
commended Bank efforts in the establishment of JNT and the central intercon-
nected system which facilitated further power sector development. Among other
things, the report recommended that in the future the Bank pay increased
attention to the companies' financial planning, tariff structures, distribu-
tion programs and energy losses. These points have been addressed under the
aforementioned recent loans, and complementary measures are provided for under
the proposed project.
41.        EPM has received five Bank loans, totalling US$135 million for
power development and a recently-approved loan of US$44 million for telecom-
munications. The previous power loans have assisted with expansion of
generation, transmission and distribution capacity. An OED report, "Third
Medellin Power Project - Loan 369-Co" (Report No. 450, May 24, 1974) concluded
that the project had been very well executed despite cosiderable geological
difficulties.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Objectives
42.        The project, prepared by EPM, with the assistance of consultants,
comprises part of its 1980-86 investment program, and covers planned 1980-84
hydro power, transmission and urban distribution system expansion. The
project was appraised by a Bank mission which visited Colombia in November/
December 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington D.C., during the week
of April 28, 1980, with a Colombian delegation led by Dr. Virgilio Barco,
Ambassador of Colombia to the United States, and Dr. Diego Calle, General
Manager of EPM.
43.        Project objectives are:  (a) to provide the power capacity and
facilities necessary to supply electricity to an estimated 330,000 urban
consumers by 1984, including about 60,000 new industrial, commercial and
residential users; (b) to expand electricity supply to rural areas, as well



- 16 -
as to enable substitution of relatively inexpensive hydro-based electricity
for costly and unreliable diesel plant generation; (c) to enable EPM to
participate in a program for least-cost operation of the national power
system; (d) to assist EPM in forming the specialized technical expertise
needed to cope with its increasingly complex responsibilities; and (e) to
continue support of the Government's objective of sound sector financing
through maintenance of adequate tariff levels and economic structure of
tariffs to promote rational energy use.
Project Description
44.       The physical facilities comprise:
(a) Guadalupe IV Power Plant: the 213-MW hydroelectric generating
plant, to be constructed on the Guadalupe River, would operate
under a gross head of 417 m and generate an average of 1,077 GWh
per annum. It would consist of a power tunnel (6.5 km), two surface
penstocks, a surface power station with 3 vertical turbines and
generators (3x71 MW) and a substation with two banks of 3 single-
phase transformers of 59 MVA each;
(b)  Transmission and Subtransmission:  10 km of single circuit 44-kV
lines, 30 km of single circuit and 15 km of double circuit llO-kV
lines, and 93 km of double circuit 230-kV lines;
(c) Substations: expansion of 5-6 existing and construction of 4-5 new
substations, together with about 420 MVA of transformer capacity;
(d) Urban Power Distribution: renovation and expansion of EPM's urban
distribution network, consisting of about 129 km of 13.2-kV overhead
lines, 111 km of 13.2-kV underground cables, 2.2 km of 44-kV overhead
cables, 111 km LT lines, 11 MVA in distribution transformers and
miscellaneous specialized equipment;
(e) Energy Dispatch Center: construction of a regional control center
which, together with similar centers to be constructed by EEEB and
CORELCA, would function as local satellites of ISA's national
energy control center. In order to realize the full benefits of
least cost operation of the national grid, the centers would have
to be completed as soon as possible. The required detailed studies
for EEEB's center are being carried out under 1807-CO; ISA's national
center is under construction and CORELCA has recently awarded a
supply-and-erect contract. Designs for all the facilities are
compatible with each other; and
(f) Training: 8 scholarships in each of the years 1981-84 would be
provided for specialized training of EPM's professional staff,
in the areas of hydrology, soil and rock mechanics, geomorphology,
seismology, energy planning and dispatch, specialized equipment
and civil works. Also, EPM's power planning staff would receive
training at suitable foreign public utilities in order to update
their expertise. This program would be carried out in coordination
with ISA, which is studying its similar manpower requirements and
possible training resources (under 1725-CO).



- 17 -
Costs and Financing
45.       Total project cost is estimated at US$228.3 million equivalent, of
which US$155.2 million equivalent, or 68%, correspond to the foreign exchange
component. During project execution (1980-84), EPM plans to carry out other
investments at a cost of US$467 million equivalent, including interest during
construction and investments in ISA, and will require an increase in working
capital of US$39 million equivalent. Project costs are based upon estimates
prepared by EPM and include physical contingencies amounting to approximately
13% and price contingencies equivalent to about 48% of base costs. The cost
of consultant services for engineering supervision includes 3,200 man-months
at an average of US$1,100 per man-month for the Guadalupe hydro plant and 20
man-months for the transmission study at an average cost of US$10,000 per
man-month. All such services would be provided by consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience, and terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory
to the Bank and EPM (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
46.       The proposed loan of US$125 million would finance 55% of the total
funds required for the project, i.e., 80% of the project's foreign exchange
cost. The remaining costs (US$103.3 million) would be financed by EPM's
internal cash generation (32% of total cost), commercial borrowings and
suppliers' credits (13%).
The Borrower, EPM
47.       EPM is an autonomous company owned by the Municipality of Medellin.
It was established in 1955 and is responsible for providing Medellin and
nearby areas with electricity, water, sewerage, and telephone services.
48.       EPM is administered by a seven-member Board of Directors and
a General Manager appointed by the Board. The General Manager is responsible
for day-to-day operations and is assisted by four Assistant Managers heading,
respectively, the administrative, financial and commercial, technical and
operational branches of the organization. Additionally, a secretary general
in charge of legal matters and office records and a planning director report
directly to the General Manager. Below the level of the managers, each of
whom is responsible for all three services, the organization is administered
separately for each service. The corresponding three branches of EPM function
independently of each other. The Board of Directors is headed by the Mayor
of Medellin who selects the remaining members at large.
49.       EPM's management and staff are, in general, well-qualified and
competent. Average length of employment is 10 years, as turnover is low.
Pay scales are attractive on the whole. EPM has a satisfactory training
program for existing and new operational staff; in 1979, 950 participants
each obtained about 60 hours of instruction. However, EPM's professional
staff requires some post-graduate work in highly specialized areas to enable
the entity to reduce reliance on consultants for detailed design, procurement
and construction supervision. Financing for this has thus been included in
the proposed project (paragraph 44).



- 18 -
50.       EPM had 3,618 employees at the beginning of 1979 of which 1,700 are
directly concerned with the Power Department. The latter includes a technical
staff of 56, and 759 operations personnel, as well as 33 construction staff.
The history of the company's staff growth over the past ten years, in relation
to number of customers served and energy sold, shows a steadily improving
trend: 167 customers and 2.9 GWh per employee in 1979, compare-d with 138
customers and 1.4 GWh per employee in 1970. These figures compare favorably
with those of other electric utilities serving similar markets.
51.       EPM's accounting and internal audit systems are satisfactory.
Independent external auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, would carry out annual
audits under the proposed loan (Section 5.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Billing and collection procedures are sound; on average during 1973-79, accounts
receivable as a percentage of annual sales have not exceeded 19.2%. EPM has
already started improving the insurance coverage of its power assets. In line
with this, it has agreed to maintain adequate insurance in the future (Section
4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Finances
52.       EPM has in general maintained a satisfactory financial position
throughout its 21-year relationship with the Bank. The measures it has taken
under the San Carlos projects, including full revaluation of assets for monitor-
ing financial performance, have strengthened EPM's financial structure. At
the end of 1978, EPM's debt to equity ratio was 36/64, calculated on the basis
of revalued assets and the coverage ratio of debt service plus investments in
ISA was 1.4. The company's cash flow and working capital flow have been
adequate in recent years, with the current ratio rising from 1.5 in 1976 to
3.3 in 1978. EPM's 1980-84 investment program amounts to US$695 million
equivalent, of which US$228.3 million pertain to the proposed project. In
line with Government policy to finance the local cost of investments only from
domestic sources, EPM would be required to generate internally 57% of the
funds required during this period, taking into account the limited availability
of financing in the domestic capital market. The proposed loan represents 18%
of the investment program's requirements. Approximately 36% of total investments
would be financed from other external sources. The favorable structure of EPM's
debt and its program of tariff increases (paragraph 56) place it in a good
position to obtain the additional financing it will need over and above that
provided by the Bank. For example, EPM has recently signed a loan with the
Bank of America for US$32 million for transmission and substation system
expansion (with a term of 10 years including 5 years of grace; interest, LIBOR
plus 5/8% for the first 2 years, 3/4% thereafter; management charges 1/2%,
commitment 1/4%, government guarantee not required). Prior to effectiveness
of the proposed loan, EPM would make satisfactory arrangements for the balance
of financing required to carry out scheduled investments during 1980-82
(Section 8.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       The projected cash generation in EPM's financing plan is based
upon the company's planned tariff increases. The plan assumes continuance
through 1983 of the recently re-instated 2.2% monthly tariff increase (Section
5.08 of the draft Loan Agreement), which had been reduced to 1.5% (residential)



- 19 -
and 1.8% (all other customers) in 1979, plus a further increase estimated at
10% in June 1981, in order to generate adequate cash.
54.        Based on the above, EPM's projected net operating income would
produce minimum annual rates of return on fully revalued assets ranging from
9% in 1980 (as provided under 1582-Co), to 10.5% in 1981, 13% in each of the
years 1982 and 1983, and 10% in 1984 and annually thereafter (Section 5.07(b)
of the draft Loan Agreement), compared with the 9% yearly agreed under the San
Carlos loans. (During 1978 and 1979, EPM exceeded the agreed annual targets.)
These returns are consistent with the aforementioned internal cash generation
(paragraph 52).
55.        EPM's debt service coverage ratio during 1980-84 would range from
1.5 in 1980 to 2.6 in 1984 as a result of the substantial revenue increase
and the grace period of foreign borrowings. In subsequent years, the ratio
is expected to fall no lower than a satisfactory 2.2. EPM has confirmed
that, unless the Bank should otherwise agree, it would not incur debt in
any fiscal year which would reduce the coverage of its maximum future debt
service by internal cash generation below 1.5 times (Section 5.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement). It is expected that the company's debt/equity ratio
will improve slightly from the current proportion of approximately 36/64
during the next two years, reaching 33/67 by the end of 1984. Lastly, to
ensure adherence to the financing plan as well as to the national least-
cost power expansion program, until project completion, EPM has agreed not
to undertake without prior concurrence of the Bank, aggregate investments
in any year in excess of 1% of the value of its net fixed assets in service
other than for: (a) the proposed project; (b) generation expansion included
in the national expansion program (with the exception that plants of 100 MW or
less could be undertaken under the 1% limitation referred to above), provided
that adequate financing would be available; (c) its obligations to ISA; and
(d) other investments in its agreed 1980-84 program (Section 5.10 of the draft
Loan Agreement). In addition, EPM would not incur, without Bank concurrence,
investments unrelated to the operations of its departments (Section 5.09 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
56.        Tariff Structure and Rates.  EPM's average rate has been rising in
real terms and is scheduled to continue doing so over the next three years.
However, its charges to industrial and commercial consumers are higher than
to households, even though the cost of servicing the latter is estimated
to be at least equal to the cost of the former. Since late 1977, the
difference between residential and other rates has widened by the alloca-
tion of a smaller portion of overall rate increases to the residential
category. A study on cost of service to final consumers and pricing implica-
tions, being carried out under San Carlos I, is expected to detail the precise
dimensions of the structural imbalance. In view of the importance to the
energy sector, and to the Colombian economy as a whole, of minimizing dis-
tortions in energy pricing structure, EPM would take account of the study's
recommendations and establish a related program in agreement with the Bank.
The revised tariffs would take account of the government's social welfare
policies with respect to the lowest-income consumers. Should the study be
delayed, EPM would implement an interim program to correct the most obvious
rate differentials (Section 5.12 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 20 -
Procurement, Implementation and Disbursements
57.       All the items to be financed by the proposed loan (except consult-
ing services) would be procured by international competitive bidding (ICB)
under Bank guidelines. Colombian manufacturers would receive a margin
of preference of 15% or the applicable import duties, whichever is the
lower, for purposes of bid evaluation. The cost estimate assumes that
local manufacturers would supply conductors, constructional steel, tower
and miscellaneous distribution equipment, at an aggregate cost of about
US$10 million equivalent. Project works would begin in June 1980 and be
completed by end-1984.
58.       Disbursements would be made against:  (a) 52% of total expenditures
for civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
equipment and 94% of the ex-factory cost of locally-manufactured materials
and equipment; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures for foreign consultants and
50% of local expenditures for local consultants; and (d) 100% of foreign
expenditures for training. Retroactive financing in the amount of US$500,000
has been included in the proposed loan to avoid delays in EPM's construction
program. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1985.
Benefits and Risks
59.       The project would have a considerable impact upon the State of
Antioquia, and particularly upon the municipality of Medellin and the surround-
ing areas. Through provision of needed electricity services to industrial
and commercial establishments, the project would facilitate continued growth
of economic activity in the area and support the Government's objective of
stimulating development of townships in Medellin's sphere of influence.
Increased employment opportunities are expected to result from supplying
electricity to about 6,000 new industrial and commercial users. Moreover, the
standard of living of the substantial number of lower-income people who would
be connected for the first time to electricity service would be enhanced.
The increased bulk sales to other areas of Antioquia would provide support
to the Government's aim of substituting hydro-based energy for costly power
currently supplied from local diesel plants, as well as to the aim of increasing
the access of the rural population to basic services. It has been found in
the Medellin area that provision of reliable electricity supply to small-scale
economic activity improves efficiency and productivity.
60.       A return on investment was calculated by relating the combined
costs (capital and incremental operating/maintenance costs) of EPM's 1979-86
development program to estimated incremental revenues at levels that would
prevail over the period (as a proxy for benefits). On this basis, the return
on investment would be 13%, i.e., above the estimated opportunity cost of
capital in Colombia. The incremental revenues, however, which are based on
tariffs rather than on the--unmeasurable--consumers' willingness to pay,
underestimate the benefits to subscribers, particularly in commerce and
industry. The measurable benefits also exclude the social benefits accruing
from connecting more than 50,000 households for the first time.



- 21 -
Ecology
61.       EPM has carried out previous projects with due regard to environ-
mental protection and safety considerations. Under the proposed project, the
works will be carried out in a like manner, consistent with the aim of minimal
effect on land usage and adverse visual impact.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and EPM, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank and the
report of the Committee provided for the Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
63.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III.
An additional condition of effectiveness would be that EPM has made satisfactory
arrangements to secure financing for the balance of its 1980-82 investment
program (paragraph 52).
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 19, 1980



-22-                                         ANNEX I
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET           Page  I  of  5
COLOMBIA                  REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AylRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KK.)                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL           1138.9                                                 SAME         SAME    NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     225.6                               MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REBION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 240.0       380.0    870.0           1124.4    1097.7       1942.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    491.0       606.0    685.0            943.1      730.7       1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, KID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     15.8        21.3      24.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 48.2        59.8      65.5            59.3       49.0        51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     38.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        55.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       14.0        19.0      22.0            23.5       44.6        28.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     71.0        93.0    109.0            80.5       140.7       100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        46.0        46.8       38.0           40.9        41.3        35.4
15-64 YRS.                        51.0        50.5      59.0            54.4       55.3        56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0         2.7       3.0             3.9        3.5         5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
IOTAL                              3.1         3.0       2.1             2.4        2.4         1.7
URBAN                              6.0L.       5.2       3.9             3.7        4.5         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.0         36.0      30.0            32.8       31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     14.0        11.0       8.0             8.5        9.2         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.2          3.2       1.8             2.4        2.2         1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..        115.4    263.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..      48.6             17.7       34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         97.0        99.0    107.0             99.4       104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   94.0        92.0      94.0 /k        107.0      105.3       120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          50.0        51.0      45.5 /k         60.4       64.4        80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       28.0        29.0      36.8 /k         28.3       23.5        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     17.0        13.0       9.0             6.7        8.6         5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   53.0         58.5      62.0            63.6       60.2        65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..         ..       98.0/j          76.1       46.7        45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *-       63.0       64.0            63.4       60.8        69.4
URBAN                               ..         ..       73.0           79.5        75.7        85.1
RURAL                               ..         ..       46.0            38.6       40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        47.0      48.0            58.8       46.0        70.1
URBAN                               ..        75.0      73.0           77.8       46.0         88.3
RURAL                               ..         8.0      13.0            24.5       22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2400.0      2170.0    1820.0          1841.9    2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    3740.0      2040.0        ..            933.7     1195.4      765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           580.0       510.0    530.0            563.4      453.4        197.6
URBAN                               ..         ..    320.0            279.4      253.1        260.2
RURAL                               ..         ..   9670.0            1140.9    2732.4       1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        23.0      25.0            25.7       22.1        17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         6.0       5.7/1          5.0         5.3         4.7
URBAN                               ..         ..        5.S/j           4.8        5.2         4.4
RURAL                               ..         ..       5.9s             5.3       5.4          5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         ..        -.8/            1.3        1.9         1.1
URBAN                               ..         ..        1 .6f           1.3        1.6         1.2
RURAL                              ..          ..                        1          2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            47.0/f        ..       58.1/1          54.3       50.0        66.0
URBAN                            83.d7F         ..      87 .5           80.1       71.7        85.1
RURAL                              8.07         ..      13.2j           14.2       17.3



-23-                                            ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COLOMBA                   REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAME        SANE      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIMATE lb       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 77.0        100.0      106.0           107.3       102.5        101.7
MALE                  77.0        96.0      103.0            109.1      103.6        110.0
FEMALE                77.0       102.0      109.0            107.4       97.1         92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 12.0         23.0      35.0             40.5        33.5         51.2
MALE                  13.0        23.0       35.0             40.4        38.4        56.4
FEMALE                11.0        22.0       35.0             39.0        30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  31.0/h        21.0       17.0             18.5       11.5         18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            38.0         38.0       30.0            37.1        35.8         27.1
SECONDARY                          11.0         17.0       19.0            17.9        22.9         25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        63.0         73.0       81.0             77.4       64.0         86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.0         11.0       16.5            29.1        13.5         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        139.0        105.0      119.0           172.1       122.7        225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         11.0         38.0      51.0             67.9        38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  56.0                    69.0             76.1       40.0         78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        6.8              4.2        3.7          3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      5100.0/f    6200.0    6700.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   18.         24.6      24.6             21.5        25.0         24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              51.4         37.9      31.0             30.2        43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.2         21.0      23.0             23.8        21.5         30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.6         29.7       29.7             30.9       33.5         33.8
MALE                                  49.8        44.9       44.7             47.3       48.0         51.3
FEMALE                                11.6        14.6       14.6             13.3       16.8         16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.7/f       1.7        1.6              1.5        1.4          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.2/fi    31.9/i          .,            23.7        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  67.7/f i    60.iTi                       58.7        52.1         57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.17T         3.5/i       .               2.9        3.9          3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.8Ti        10.17? i                    9.9        12.6         11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     214.0            265.6       270.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      197.0           185.1       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     267.0            396.3       282.5        550.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     122.0            308.1       248.9        403.4
ESTIMATED PoPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      34.0             35.2        20.5
RIURAL                               ..           ..         ..            46.6        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwtse noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Latin America & Caribbean:;  d  Intersediate tiddle Income (5551-1135 per capita, 1976);
/e  Upper Middle Income (51136-2500 por capita, 1976); If  1966; a.  1951-64; L   Includes
teacher-training at the third level; /i Economically active population; Li 1973. /1 National
data, not strictly comparable vith previous years. Recent PAO data show 102.0, 52.0 and 26.0,
respectively for these three measures.-
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
Revised October 1979



ANNEX I
-24-                                                        Page 3 of 5
DUnI3TIOUS Or SOCIAL CISICATORS
Notes:  Although the data are draw  from sores generally judged the most authoritative and reliable, it should also be noted that they MaY not be  uten--
tti ..Lly comparable because of the lack of standardloed definitions and nonCepta used by different countries in collecting the data. The data are, nontheless,
se flh.1 to deooribe orders of magnitude, indiotte treds, and oharactei.e osrtato major differences hetoren countries.
The, djuotod group aveage  for each indicator are population-wighted no-tcici  means, eoo]od.tg the eutreme value  of the indinator and the mast Populated
countrydo eahgoP.  ma to lack of data, grop avrages of all indicators for Capital Surpius Oil tporters and of Indicators of Access no Water and ESnerta
Dinposal, Rousing, Income Distribution  and Poverty for other country groups nr. ppo.lation-eighted geometric ne-n  sithout exclusion of the conrem   vles               and
the most populated coutry.  Since the coverage of countries gposg the indicators depends on wavalabIlity of data ed is not unform  caution must be exerised
in reisigaeae   foeindicator to enother.  These merages are mostly use ful as aproaimations of "expected" values V whe   copaing the Values of one
indic"ato   ttimesngth  n.-try nod -refeence grouse.
LAR  AREA (thousand oq.as.)                                                               Acess8 to  lEcreta Dispesal (percent of Poplto)-oa,urn.edual-
Ttl-Ttal surfac  area. coprising lend area and island eaters.,me  fpoi   ttl   ra,sdrrl  s-erd by ari A disposl an
Agric-ltural -  M.st recent estimate of agricultural1 aras used temporarily               Peretages of their respective pepul-ixn. berets disposal esy inclde
or peranet ly for croPs, Pastures, sachet endl kitchen gardens or to                    the ce1.e-tlon end disopeal, with or without treatment, of humac  . eoreta
lie fallow                                                                              end sane-eater by water-borne nystemg or the nor of pit privies und s-ilar
GN? PR CATTA  US$)- GN  peL pit...tl-.. a  oneeat  arke  prie.,)Installations.
- iS   paPaiaetmae tcretsaktpie,                                7p4glapio.  jhysMlyj.pn   Population dlridd by nuber of practining physicians
o  oul"ted o  same converso  method as World lank Atlas (1976-78 basis)                   qi fi d teW7Wm   diial school t  university level.
1960, 1970, end 19178 data.                                                             Population per pursing Person - Population dirided by outelr of praticing male
McmvY C:5RiWTN PEA fAPTTh -Annaml, consumption of onaseial    -                              and female gradate nurses, practical nurses, and assistantnus.
(oladlnite,ptroem,ntural gas and hydro-, nuclear end gee-                        Population err noeita  B.d - toa.  urban  an  rra  - Population (total, urban,
thraelectrcitiyP) in  ilogras  of coal equialent par capita; 1960,                        sadn l   iie   yterrsetv   ubr o  hos.                      a   esealbei
1970  and 1976 data.                                                                      puhliteand private general and specialied hostpital asnd rehabtilitation centers.
R.spitals ace. establishmests permanently staffed by at least one physician
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              Estblishments providing principally Custodial care ar  not molded. Rural
Total Population. Nid-YeaiNii=lIions) -As of July i; 1960, 1970, and                      hospitals, howeve, include health end medical centers sot peranntly utaffed
1977 data,                                                                              bY a physician (boo by a medical assistant, nurse,  ldetfe, etc.) which iffee
Urban Popuatin(prcet of total) - Ratio of urhi  to total PpopattiPn;                       in-patient nocomodation and procide a limited range of medical facilitie..
different definitions of  m d area  say affect comp-rahility of data          Adm'I'issionsper Hoseital Bed - Totl nuber of admiusioss to or dischargen from
sagconris  16,97,ad975 dat.                                                                osita   diided by the number of bed..
Population inyear2000 - Curret Population projections are based no                  HOUS5N5
1975   total pultion by  ge end sex snd their -rtallty  And fertili ty              Average lice of Household (,ors,ms per houn,ehold)-total,  rban  and rural -
rates. Projection Parsamters for esrtality rates comprise of three                    A household -oosivtu  fag of       ofidoiu          ho sar  living quartern and
levels assuming life expectany at birch increasing with country's                     their main mean .  A hoarder or lodger may or may sot ho included on the
Per capita incoe  lecel, and feml  life expectancy  tabilising at                     household for statiuti-Il Purposes.
77.5 fer."    Th _arntero for fertility rate also hav  three levels                 Average nubro   esn   e  om- totl                 butn  and rrl-Acrae ounte
asouwing  ecline infertility   -rcoding to income leve  and past                 ofPersnpe room isal. uba.ndrua  occupie   onot-iol dselliog,
famIly csnn  perforsmanc. Each coatry in then assigned ocr of thewe                   respectively.  D.eIlingo  o-lude non-peraent stritures and unccpied porto.
nin  cobiatinsof mortality and fertility trends for projection                 Accens 1toi ilectricity (percent ofidoellingo)1 - tonal,  -In. said r-al1        fo.
Puross                                                                                ctca  dwlings nith eletricity  inivig quartero at per-utege o
dtwtiooory population - Is a stationar y Population there is no groeth                  total, urban, nod rural doellinga reop-otively.
.ninc the birth rate is equal to the death rate, and aLso the age
structur  reaici o...utent. Thin in achieved only aftor fertilitty rates         EiRifATI105
ocolloc to the replacemet leve  of unit net reproduction rate, shou                 Adjusted Enrolinet Ont'co
each generation of .omm  repae   Itnf  -oscly.  The stationary popo-                  Frimaury schoo  -  totl aeadf feal  - Groon total, male en  icoale   -11-
atIoc vice sa  es...timated othehaul  of the projected characteriutica                  mant of all ages at the piryle-ria  percentages of reopoctl- Primar y
of the popolation in the year 2000, and the rate of decliss of fertility                school-age pplati..ss; normally includes otild-  aged 6-li yearn but
rate to reclanreent level.                                       ~~~~adjusted for different Ivogtho of pinacy education; for o_triv-  ith
fastaticeny  pultio 1ein moohed - The year when stationary population                  universal education enrollment ma   -eoed 100 p-erot since some po.pilo
nice has been reached.                                                                  urn below  or ohov  the official -ci-c  age.
Poculatio  benicy                                                                         loec..d,cuhcol -  totl. eal  and female - Computd ni nice; oooocosry
Per to. inP. - Md-year population Per square Ailoeter (iio heotsren) of                   edction requiren at l,east four yesos of approvd pri mary irtrctio-;
total  re                                                                               prociden geacral voctional , or teacher training inotructiot  :"o proilo
Per ou. to. ori-o1tural bend  -Coputed en above for agricultural land                     usualy of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence  ...ne  ore gt-ersaly
only.                                                                                   occluded.
PonltocAeStutr  (peret  -  hildren (U-14 yearn), working-age                              Vocational enrollmet (percent of  -ecodary  - Pocatiova1 foutitotion -o ndoo
15-tbyar)  an   eird syer  nod over) as percentages of mid-pear                          thia,duntrial, or other progras  ohich operate iodeped ent ly or s
populntiot; 1960, .1970, and 1977 data.                                                   de-tsmsttn of uccondary inutitoti on..
Population ircoth Hate (orront) - total -Annua growth rates of total mid-       Neltahrrtio - orima-;no  ucondory - Total stuin-to c-1oid in
year pplati..n  for i950-hb       6-0  en  19_77-.                                        primay and secodary level  divided by tubert of tractors oi  thcore
Rooolat ioo Groth Oats  norent   -uban - Annual-~ g           -wrto  of urban                spendin `leo-lo.
-opulati~ons for 1950-We, 1960- 70, and 1970-75.                                        Adult literay rate  (percet) - Literate wdultt   sI  to  da toooto, no
crdSinth Rate  Poer thousnd   -Anua  lIve birthn  per thousad of mid-                       --.eretngc of total adult population aged 15 yeur  nd over.
year population; 190  1970, nod 1977 data.
Crude loath Rate (pelr thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of Pud-pear             CONSt'IrION
poplaio; l0,190,  nd197data.                                                     asne-ger Cre- 'per th-uond population) - Panenger van.  -cpe i- actor  -ns
Croon ReproductIon RateOverae oubro  sihesanaadiha                                    eating lets than eight per....s; ocloden anilaco-n, beao-  and rilitucy
it, h-v  oroa  reproductive perIod if sic  -np-i-ncos pren..nt oRe-                     vehicles.
upe-ific fertility votes; usoolly five-year  -rages ending in 1960,                   Radio Receivero (ocr tbhuoand  Aoooio      ll typro ofreevrfordo
1970, and 1975.                                                                         broadowuts to general publiv pev thounend of popolation; voclods onlienur
RsdyRioio- Acctn.    o  Annal  thousands) -koAnnI number of                        -e      - coer   -otutiou and in yeses nheregisotration of radio octo na  o
1cetr  o   it-cnrldeie ner nupooo   ninlfnl                                           ffect; into for recent years ray tot be ocp-rale oioe n-t  -ocoiro
plancoog, proeno                                                                        abolislhed lccog
Po_  y     .Pnnig s-Oerspreto    are   or (-Pre0aeo   ure                                V Reevr __  Per tiuano poultion) - T/ reriecro  fo  r htootut to d,eori
scorn  f child-hearn-   g   l-hyus   to one birtD-cotrol devices                      public per thoussai  popuotion; ncludes unlic-osed Tvrerivero  in v-utri-u
to  l earned woe  ic tsr wge grou.                                                      and in yearn  hen vegistration of TV setc nan in effect.
Neevy apr Circltion ',per ,thbnusad p20 tilmtc         iba -teoerage  lc.        t
POOP AND1 NtUoTRlOl                                                                         ofdaily gn-a  oeeinuppv,O iedsuperidicaI pohli-t-ai
Ioden of Food ProductIo    e  ou  )         -7i-Ii() - Ioden of prPon ita                 'evotd primsciiy to recording geneal ne-.  it in otnoidered to bc "doily'
-oua..   cucio    fn.1food ca ities. Production e-luda seedad                           if it npp.-s ut leat four ties u ner.K
feed and o i   calendar year basic.  Cosndities cover1 primnry goeCas   nulAtcec   e   abnoeft       ne   ntecne         bt
(.suga-aceinstead of sugar) chic  are ediblead cotain nuridt                         sold during the year, inciuding udiunoons to drive-in cioceacoocoli
(e.g. o_ffeo  ndtea _reeuduit).  Aggregate production of .s.. ch   ay  ount.
it haned on neticnal averag  prducr  rie-        rghs
Per  -aito supply of clre  (Pe   _ec  of reuiresuseno  - Computed from              LABOR FPORCE
v-ery equinln t  f vtfood copplice avalble in coutry Per capita                     Tn,talLao  FoTe (thousndo  -'  ...noeioally active Persons, inoludoo  need
per dyp.  A-vailanl  ouPPl1en  -oepiar dneotic production, imprts icon                focsad gueployed ht eoldi Zgicnica  studeot-, etc. iefti.i;ovt
-opoIs, and eh-sgreioLatuco.  Set oupplirn eon lde animal feed, seedo,                i Vuri..a.o-otvieo  are, votenp.rile.
octten used in food proceuing, nd bones 10 dintrihution. Require-                 7 Iygjercet)-  eae labo.~rbfre ao percen.tage of total labor f,cr
entt -rem  estimated by FAO baui  nphsilgialcedo for normal                         6fctv,(or            )- Labor force in faring, forestry, hunting nod
notivity and health  -onidering  -nirllnnts.l tempovauer, body ceighto,               fiuhing nu pe-etage of total labor force.
agetand  -e  dintribotinos of populatico, and aloning 10 percent for                Industr   peet) -Labor f-crr onminieg,  ontutic aufact-rlg v-d
os ete 01household lec-l.                                                             electricity, oster and gas an perentage of total Labor force.
bvr vuito supply of' orstin  groan per day) -Prtein con tent of per                   PanctosRt  pren)-ttl  mae,ad Cemale - Participation c
onpito cci ouppir of food per imp. Pact vo~~~~~pply of food in def'ined noacivit  eten  aecmputed so total!,a ,cofelebrfoeas                              -
above. Peqoironestu for nIl- coutries entablished by USDA prccide for a               cetages of total,  "sic an  female ropulntion of wll ugetre-pevtivly;
vi nil.i allowane of 60 groa  of total protedn per day end 20 grsa  of                1960, 1970, end 1975 iota.d These ure 1100s partlvi.ptio  eaten reflecting
animal and puloc proteio, of oich 10 grsms should be anial protein,                   age-sea structur  of the population, and long ItIm  trend. AI fe_ e_timaten
Threneitan d   are Loner then those of 75 gr-n  of total protein sad                  are from nat ioa  sou. en
25 gren  of animal protein .s en avrae for the word, Proposed by, PAl               inn-omi lependecy Ratio -  Ratio of populatIon  -dcv 15 end 65 nd over to
in the Third Wo1rld1 Food  urocy                                                      the Isio  force- inag  group of 15-64 years.
Percpt   -vtiotooPl  from animal and puine - Protein supply of food
deio    ro   nnl adple  i   ra     r dyu.                                   INCOPC DISTRMiTI0n-h d  i)- .idbyiht
Ili.   4v, eeu-o frur  = t`talli  vae  or thootend   - Annual d-athn Per thousand       Percentage of Private      ..   ..on   Clth ionsiaddv)-Occvdb   ihn
ic ngc gevop 1-4 year, to ohildve- ii thin ag .goP; for anst dc-I                       5 percet, rlobest 20 percent, poorest 20 percevi, and pooret vi percent
opiog  -.otroc  onto dortoed fete lift tabien    or                                      f households.
RiALCH                                                                                  POVERTY TAOGST lP=?
life lo,eotny on Oirth 'ycart) - A-eroe  -ober ofyearn of lifo                          Estimated Absolute Pocerty. I-con  leve   009 ccvL    -ita  - rban nod rurl 
cennici   ivlio  l          _i 970, nov 1977. onto.                                     Abooiote p-vty icv-n  !ovel it tInt locoo  Iro-i bbo- ohioh  tanlon
lofant  liruft aRte   c  tbhuoamd(  A-.Iuta  icatbi of infants under one                  nutritio-ally od-vbote diet Pltmo en titl ton-food -eqoirer-- .- cot
ferofc    e  th..en   Ive birtc..                                                    nffordblc.
Aveotoio   te ceonofoIutit  -  otl,oran  an  rya  -                                   ti-and Pelative Pcvcr -ty Iccoa  Lov-l  cis$ Per onpite  - orbn  and ccvii
iine   f peocl-  total  .orha, ad rua    ibrnonbe0m i                                 ivlrltv    ooeyboeio   onon-tir f averag  per -npita
o-fe naive oyp~ly . oiolodet trentedtufo   aeror uncreted bun                  t          enooI inton  of tbe ountry. frIo  level iv derooco f.ro-teoa  level
-             j-hslvt    ter00   ac  in   fro   prteote  icrholec,  pyrogo,     ioth edjnto...t for bighber cc-t of Livooc in urban  -ren
andonit-y o-in so  er-ettg-o of their r                  -ovoi vpuintlooc. 1t       Ontomatd fopontoo- Beioc Aboolute Poverty  ovn  Level  ~per-et) (   oanto
anuban arme i pvbll  fortoin or standipost locutd cot core Than                       rura  -  eroec.t f popu_nolo  ,urba  and rucol( tic  -e    bout   0c.
270 aetees  r-tci.cv-  -oy be voncidered an being unithio rean...aile
o~-f tih   eve    u  ua f                 -iucnaoble  -omn  nov1  imply                                                                    -1Dt
toot  h vie . loccfe  rc n crc of thetovebod dv oct have to np-oo u.f.c...O  end lv                                                                tnioto
ourpoitnn  ;trt of the _0cy in fenvhlog the f-nllys soateruPevo                                                    ooccbayi ndEPy(cio epurtoot
ivovt 10



- 25 
EGONOOGCDE 0514t855   10.. o   4 of 3
Actoel                7sttssred       Oto soocol~~~-1.j~-  A,,r,,e Aoot,1 Grow-   Ott               As P--ot  of GOP
196 7-63                                                                                   (1967-69)-       975-   1980-
Ao--ge       1975       1976       1977       19:6       1979       1980       1985             74         79       85           1975       1979      1585
-4506L ACCOUNTS5                                                         1976 Polte   -d0 E,,th.o 060
Gros  Domesic Produc                         9,660     14,567    65,236    1,91         17,2~29    18,282    19,379    23,933                 1.5      5.8     6.0         1000        09.       100.0
Orbs Ororo Or,,os oc credo (.00   ~~~~~-751  -699         -          687         24         93       -264       -4342              -                              4,8        2.         17
Gross  . -oosi  Iow.-                    6,609      17,868    15,236    16-,668    1 7,753 1-    8 ,36 5    09,115    25-,499              7,4    -7.3    -5.9          875 .2     10-0.5      99.3
Import (tool. 8707               ~~~~~~     ~~~~1,491  2,007  2,302  2,418    2,895      3,161      3,411      5,012               7.5    12 7      6.7          14,1       17,4       16.3
(IotWIol 45    e. Osre-loy)     -1.419      -2i29!    -272        -,9         354       -,1          ,6           9                6.5     0.6      5.4          15.8       16.1       17.3
seooorGp                                   70         238      -480       -681       -289       -133        -53        514                -        -       -           -1.7       -0.7        2.0
G....teprto  Eopscdttores                   7,5622     10,90  11,5:78       11,560      '193,77   13,0514    14,527    19,055                6.       6.4     56           74.9       76.3        75.:4
Icoestosco lopsodltoocs  (5orl. S5ooAs7   1,~661  2,710 3,7        5427       363       4,278      4,3        698                117      721      9.0           18.       23.4       26.9
floesetfo toosoos                1~~~~~~~~~~,589  2,960  3,437     4,108      4,262      4,411      4'a.8     6464              01.1    10.l5      7.1          103        24.1       24.9
Netlorol Osologs           0,509       2,824     ~~~~~      ~          ~~~~~~339  ,9  4,226  4,256  4,298  5,817           11.1    70.        63           194        23         22.4
,spC so  Good                                 290        583         670       "20      1,293      1,;770     2,13       s,0143             10.4    32.0    14.4           40.7.      44.6~      42.0
Iolsrmdti-  Goods (Eool. Fo1.)               254         59         73         70         090     122         ,415      0,623              21.4    20.      151           477         1.         77.
Poets                             ~     ~    ~~~       ~~~~       ~~~~       ~~~~~3 25  129  184  244  370  760  2,170         (2.2   110.5    22.0             1.0      14.:3      (.
Cooepsti-o Goods                              41         21         21        335        29    30              438        1                 03      41      1.3           15.3        9.3        0.2
T.ol1 ttethediss IVsort  (027)              60         ,.5       1,747      2 , 120    2-,I17     3T,5 73    4, 724     8,402             16.4    29.2    1.              3.         0.         0.
cojor Ilorotootorod ooods         12         324~~~~~'   392       3082       144        615       079       1.788             35.0    17.4    18.             19.        14.2       02.4
Ott- Eopuro                                  553      1,9         104       2,42       2,8152     3,716      3,762       16,37             145     7.       218            1.I0,                7 6
0f001042   (Cotlee-                          3410        764)   1  '2,29)  1,780)  6,84)  02,637)72,lo 2,               2,124)12 1,57  36'30.)7  5.2)                    144.5)   2 0.92        37.4)
1  561   7    907  7  ~~~113    6 ()  6  7567       2027)    270)        7051           (-35.61  6_27.651  20.41          5.7)        4,08       8.41
Foro1 Ilerh-ri- Eopor-                       006      2,717      2,255      2,796      3,798      4,331      5,536      8,361              76.2    26.0    12.0          700.0      102.0      270.0
oot  r-rldro                            21.2        7~3.9     103.0      141.6      231.3      147.7    2144.7       164.6
Imoor  PrIo  Ird-o3 54.                                   85,8      187.8       L 01.     72.8      242.       15 8.4     233.1
loo-  of  rsde Ordoo                          62.         77.1      103.8      178.1      7180.7    103.0       91.4       79.2
VA'"62 55013 13 0E0T00 (ooro  Cos)                             A-1oe tt- at1976- frlis  sod E-ohoo-  Aoe-1ro dro Oro-h tos                                                    cPetoe    of TotlI
Agrloulto-                                2,923       4,~145     4,224,     4130'1     4,2201     4,956      5,204      6,737               2.      46        .3306                  29.3       28.21
Pedocroy                       ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~2,427  3,833  ,3 ,6      4,034      4,668      4,5':4167                               52I.                   63        76        7.
OOOoo                         ...k.~~~~~~~~~~~~4249  .112!  5,945  6.347    6.163       7.291      7.769    10,498               5.9      7.U.2                 4.        43.61      43.7
Toro1                                     8,509      13,536    24,107      24,764    16,018    16,926    77,931    23,0996                  5.1     5.7      t.           3. 0.0               100.0
-r-ro   eolte                          413       2,502      1,673      2,050      2,346      3,335     4,302    10,129               20.3    20.1    25.0            10.3       10.8'      1,2.4
Correct Osreodirores             ~~~~        ~~~~262  702  751      931     2.229      1.552      2.126      6,233              16.1    20.9    24.0            4.8        5.0         .9
Bodgetery Sorlogs        151         880~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  929  1,119  1,833  1,763  2,.1 76  4,904           26.2    22.2    24. 3a                       .          .
Othor toOllo Seotot Osuloss      ~~~~~434    167        -0         -s           9        .           23        67.                                               .          -          .
PublIctool      Svsow                       612          917     I,15       1,12       1,s36      1,975      1,507    10,36'               6.6    21.2    32,0             6.3        4.4        9.8
421.8oTmo 1300940009              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1965.70    1375-79   19t-s8
To, oots,eot, loosed Ooo Oror)  ~~~~~     ~~~~~~4.53  6.12  3.73
MegoIDmsl   Solse Rar                02.0        1.'32      229
900019s1 509200s2 Osooros lste      2~~~ ~ ~~                ~~.74  2.2 22 4
A.e f,9  OT-7        75 I ~f`lost
1964            1973         1964           2937         1964-73                                                 -roI   slrs2  901
Aoolool6,oo                  ~~~~~~           ~~~~~~        ~~2.427  2.057  473 30.2    -1.6ldsO7s,dOtog9                                                                                                           2
I900etoy                      8~~~~     ~     ~~~~~~       ~~.958  1.21  167 I7.8        2.                                                    Pos42  2                                                             0.
Oe-ie                                   1.749           3,542          34.0           52.0         6.2                                                   -rorrod 4c.1010                                 4013'
50201                                   3.134            6.812        120.2          20 .0                                                               OrOco 214.                                                          19 
720.1 Ooro9dlt,orrs          7001                ~~~~100.0
1904           1973               1964           1977            1964-73
Agrloost're                 90~~~~~~~~~~13  1,517            66.4            694              5.                                                msto9ooos1  7                                                      704
Oouero1,37                                         2,513.2                           148.:6             3.7                                              0.0cr                                          it.o                 10.4
Oeroulo                             1,030          1,546              127.3           90.0            -1.2                                               T-1s Fto9oc                                    0-0 0                 02.
T-1e                                1,359          1,717              100.00         180.0             2.0
Golotomosb olo
7000907 1, 1900



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(A-tots in Millions of US Dullars at Current Prices)
Actual                             Esti-aed                  Proected
1970     1975        1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982         1985
SMiARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
E.p-rts (incl. NFS)                   1,000    2,165       2,782      3,397      3,992      5,226      5,644      6,138      7,001       10,606
Im-ts (i-l. NFS)                     1.149    2,030       2.302       2,723      3.414      4.789      5.681      6,796      7,881      11,515
Resource Balance (X-N)                 -149       135        480        674        578        437        -37       -658        -880        -909
Factor Services (Not)                  -180      -263       -279       -264       -156        -97       -119       -172       -275         -678
Profits                           (  -64)      -74)   ( -115)       -114)   ( -_l1)   ( -130)   ( -145)   ( -163)   ( -182)   (  -233)
Other                             0 -116)  0 -189)   ( -164)   ( -150)   (  -30)   (   33)   <   26)   (   -9)   (  -93)   (  -445)
Current Tr-nsfers (Net)                  27        48         21         29         20         21         22          24         25          30
Balance On Current Accoun.t            -30T       -80        222        439        442        361       -134       ,-806    -1,130       -1,557
Private Direct In-estment                39        32         14         42         47         65         80        100        130          300
PiblI  hALT loan
Disbuments                           235       383         241        374        341        887        552        651        980       1,369
- Repaym.ets                            -75     -135        -152       -174       -231       -458       -319       -330       -385         -552
Net Dis.brsnaeute                    160       248          89        200        110        429        233        321        595          817
Other MALT Lo...
.isboe--ents                         101       141         109         85        110        282        212        250        275          365
- RepauMents                            -59       -N7        -07        -09        -96       -116       -141       -165       -170         -225
Net Disbursesents                     42        54          22         -4         14        166         71         85        105          140
Capital Transacti-ns n.e.i.                55      -115        215        173         60        291         -          -          -           -
Change in Net Reserves
T- = Increas..                           6      -139       -562       -850        -673    -1,312        -250        300        300         300
GRANT AND LOAN COMMIT2MENTS        1972         1973        1974        1975        1976        1977        1978
Offinial Grants ted
Grant-like                        -           -           -            -           -           -
Pbli and MALT Lo.nu
IBRN                               74         162           8           88          80         306         475
ISA                               -           -           -            -           -           -           -
Other niltilateral                 39          29           65           5          93          61          71
Gov-rDuensI                       114          72           52          66         132          65         113
Suppliers                          39          31           50          74          44          31          90
Private Banks                      93         190          61          164         169          65         146
onds                              -            45
Publ6   LOanS ..e.i.              -             1         _           _            _           _           _
Total Public ?edi.u  - and
LMng-tern Loans                     359          530         236         397         518         528         895
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                            Ootst.nding on 12/31177                          Outstanding 00 12/31/78
(Repayable in F-reign Ccrrency)             Disbursed ODIV             Percnt               Diubursed  Only             Percnc
World Ba-k                                  716.2                    26.7                    751.5                   26.5
IDA                                          22.3                     0.8                     21.8                    0.8
Other Multilat-eal                          195.5                      7.3                   243.1                    8.6
Governments                                 928.4                    34.6                    983.8                   34.7
Suppliers                                   207.4                     7.7                    209.4                    7.4
Private Eanks                               551.0                    20.6                   567.9                    207.
Bonds                                        47.7                     1.8                     45.4                    1.6
Public Dbois n.i.1.                          OL.                     0.5                      9.7                    0.3
Total Public Medium- and
Loeg-tern  Loans                            2,680.0                   100.0                  2,832.6                  100.0
Actual
1972          0973          1974          1975           1976           1977          1978
DEBT AND DEST SRRVICE
Public Dbt
00 tstaedtoa and Disbursed /1               1,626.5        1,901.7       2,070.0       2,318.0        2,403.2       2,680.0        2,832.6
Interest on Public DObt                        57.6           77.2         101.1          111.7         122.8         138.2          171.8
Rlpaynestt ott Public DObt                      96.3         131.4         207.5          135.3         151.8          176.1         230.5
Total Public Debt Service                     153.9          208.6         308.6          247.0         274.6         314,3          402.3
Other Dbt Service (Net)                       155.1          126.6         118.6           S7.0          87.0          89.1           96.0
Total Debt Service (Not)                      309.0          335.2         427.2          334.0         361.6         403.4          498.3
Surde- o- Euport Ear-ings (')
P.hlic Debt Service                          12.8           13.5          16.6          11.4           9.9            9.3          10l.
Total Debt S_evice                           25.6           21.7          23.0          15.4           13.0          11.9           12.5
T.tul Debt Service Plus Net
Foeign I_vstur-- Inctme                    31.5          26.2           25.9          18.8          17.1           15.2          15.4
Average Terms of Pub01c Debt
InterestI as XPrior Your
Debt Otstaoding a-d
Disbursed                                   4.2           4.7            5.3           5.4            5.3           5.8           6.4
At.or.iation as X Priot YToo
D5bt Outstanding cod
Disbursed                                   7.0           0.1           10.9           6.5            6.5           7.3           8.6
IBRDD Debt Outstandiog and
Disbursed /1                                453,4          504.5         561.7         633.5          671.6         716.2         751.5
IBRD a- %. Public Debt  Cut-ding
and Disbursed                                27.9           26.5          27.1          27.3           27.9          26.7          26.5
I0RD us 7 Public D5f  S.ervice                30.9           29.1          24.1           31.7          31.2          29.6          23.7
I0A Debt Outstanding and
Disbursed /1                                 20.9           23.0          22.0          22.5           22.3         22.0           21.8
IDA as % Public Debt 01rstu-diog
asd Disbursed                                 1.3            1.2           1.1            1.0           0.9           0.8           0.8
IDA 00 X P.bic Debt Sfrvic-                     0.3            0.2           0.1            0.2           0.2           7.1           0.1
Colodp db   Dboiv n
/I  fod of period.                                                                                                         February 1, 2900



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1980)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                             Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                           Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
49 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                       784.5      23.5 /1   --
680     1970  Colombia                           Roads              32.0               1.5
738     1971  Empresas Municipales de
Palmira                        Water Supply        2.0                 .1
741     1971  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota       Water Supply       88.0                2.5
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria             Irrigation          2.2                 .7
860     1972  Instituto de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply        9.1                2.6
874     1973  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                 56.0                3.8
903     1973  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.   60.0                   .1
920     1973  Colombia                           Education          21.2              10.4
926     1973  Ferrocarriles Nacionales           Railways          25.0                 .2
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       27.0               14.2
1073    1975  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones             Communications   15.0                   .6
1118    1975  Colombia                           Rural Settlement 19.5                 8.6
1163    1975  Colombia                           Agriculture        21.0              14.9
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.   80.0                 8.8
1352    1977  Colombia                           Rural Dev.         52.0              37.0
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica              Agricultural Cr. 64.0                27.0
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de                Communications   60.0                54.4
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de la Republica              Industrial Cr.   15.0                 7.9
1471    1977  Colombia                           Highways          90.0               82.3
1487    1978  Colombia                           Nutrition         25.0               22.8
1523    1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply           13.8              13.4
1558    1978  Colombia                           Urban Develop-
ment            24.8               24.2
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                126.0              110.8
1583    1978  Colombia                           Power             50.0               32.6



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1980) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose             Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial            Industrial
y Comercial de Cartagena         Export          15.0               14.2
1598    1978  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.  100.0                74.0
1624    1979  Colombia                          Airports           61.0              56.8
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power             84.0               71.0
1694 /2 1979  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment            13.5              13.5
1697 /2 1979  Empresa de Acueducto
y Alcantarillado
de Bogota                      Water Supply      30.0               30.0
1725 /2 1979  Interconexion
Electrica, S.A.                Power             72.0               72.0
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de
Fomento Municipal              Water Supply      31.0               31.0
1737 /2 1979  Instituto Colombiano
de la Reforma Agraria          Agriculture Cr.  20.0                20.0
1762 /2 1979  Cerro Matoso, S.A.                Mining-Nickel    80.0                80.0
1807 /3 1980  Empresa de Energia Electrica   Power                87.0               87.0
de Bogota
1825 /3 1980  Empresas Publicas de              Communications   44.0                44.0
Medellin
TOTAL                                           2,400.6      23.5
Of which has been repaid                          455.6       2.0
Total now outstanding                           1,945.0      21.5
Amount sold                         50.5
of which has been repaid            29.6           20.9
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  1,924.1      21.5
Total undisbursed                                                  1,074.9
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
/2   Not yet effective.
73   Not yet signed.



- 29 -                              ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1980)
Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                     Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.            Fiber-board      0.50       -       0.50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products   1.99   0.08         2.07
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.          Metal cans        0.70       -       0.70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                     Home furniture  0.08   0.09         0.17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.           Electrical
equipment      0.50       -      0.50
1962        Corporacion Financiera             Development
Colombiana                        financing          -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera             Development          -   2.04        2.04
Nacional                           financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de              Textiles         1.98   0.15        2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de          Development
Caldas                            financing          -   0.81       0.81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.            Steel forging       -   1.27        1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de              Warehousing      1.00       -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966        Industria Ganadera                Livestock         1.00   0.58        1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.              Textiles         5.00   2.60        7.60
1969        Compania de Desarrollo de          Tourism             -   0.01        0.01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del          Development         -   0.45        0.45
Norte                              financing
1969        Corporacion Financiera del         Development         -   0.43        0.43
Valle                              financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de             Tourism          0.23   0.11        0.34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                  Tourism           0.80   0.25        1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de           Housing             -   0.46        0.46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.               Cement           1.50       -       1.50
1975        Cementos del Caribe, S.A.          Cement           3.60       -       3.60
1976       Las Brisas                          Mining           6.00       -       6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities        13.00   2.00      15.00
1977        Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                 Construction
lIaterial      2.43   0.30        2.73
Total Gross Commitments                            40.31  13.65       53.96
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             29.16   8.26      37.42
Total commitments now held by IFC                  11.15   5.39       16.54
Total undisbursed                                    -        -         -



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
1.   Ln No. 680 Highways VI; US$32 million, June 4, 1970.
Effective date: March 29, 1971
Closing date:    original - November 30, 1974
current - November 30, 1980
The project is nearing completion; the paving program, which is the
largest component of the project, has experienced considerable cost increases
and delays. The disbursement percentages for the relevant categories of the
loan have been adjusted to spread remaining loan funds over the paving works
implementation period. Project completion is now expected for end-1980. As
of March 31, 1980, US$30.5 million (95% of the total) had been disbursed.
2.   Ln No. 738 Palmira Water Supply and Sewerage; US$2 million, May  28, 1971.
Effective date: December 29, 1971
Closing Date:    original - March 1, 1975
current - June 30, 1980
The original project works were completed at lower cost than originally
estimated. The savings of about US$348,000 are being used to finance supple-
mentary sewerage works which were already identified during project appraisal.
Work on the project additions is well advanced and funds should be fully dis-
bursed by the loan closing date. As of March 31, 1980, about 96% of the loan
amount was disbursed.
3.   Ln No. 741 Water Supply (Bogota II); US$88 million, May 28, 1971.
Effective date: August 16, 1971
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1978
current - December 31, 1980
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily and the Borrower
continues to perform well. Completion of the Chuza-Ventana tunnel section,
which was delayed by a methane explosion, is expected to be completed by
mid-1982; all other project elements will be completed by the end of 1981.
Disbursements up to March 31, 1980, amounted to about 97% of the loan amount.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
4.   Ln No. 849 Second Atlantico Development; US$5 million, June 30, 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    original - March 31, 1978
current - December 31, 1979
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production. At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million was cancelled
in February 1977. Settlement of farmers within the project areas is behind
schedule and the provision of technical assistance/farm credit needs improve-
ment. Because heavy rainfall in May and again in November resulted in flooding
which destroyed crops in the project area, a study is to be carried out to
determine possible deficiencies in design and a least cost solution for
correcting them. The closing date would be extended once consultants are
employed to carry out the study. The results are expected to be ready for
Bank review by September, 1980.
5.   Ln No. 860 Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$9.1
million, October 10, 1972.
Effective date: March 7, 1973
Closing Date:    original - September 30, 1976
current - September 30, 1980
As of March 31, 1980, about 71% of the loan amount was disbursed.
Management problems affected the initiation of the project, but execution
has since improved. Delay in receiving budgetary funds as a result of the
Government's economic stabilization measures also slowed down project execution;
however during 1979, execution improved. INSFOPAL has prepared a new implemen-
tation program for each city and works are now expected to be completed by
December 1980. The closing date will be extended in due time.
6.   Ln No. 874 Guatape II Hydroelectric Power Project; US$56 million,
January 12, 1973.
Effective date: March 13, 1973
Closing Date:    original - December 31, 1978
current - June 30, 1980
The project is virtually completed; the only remaining item is some
procurement of distribution equipment. After considerable delay in resettling
the people of El Penol and Guatape, filling of the Santa Rita reservoir was
carried out in May 1978, three years behind schedule. The revised project
cost is substantially above appraisal estimate, mainly occasioned by higher
cost of the civil works and resettlement. As of March 31, 1980, US$52.2
million or 93% of the loan amount had been disbursed.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
7.   Ln No. 903 Development Finance Companies V; US$60 million, June 11, 1973.
Effective date: November 9, 1973
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1979
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed within the next few months. As of March 31, 1980, only US$0.1
million remained undisbursed.
8. Ln No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 19, 1973.
Effective date: January 9, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1981
Project execution had been suspended in mid-1975 pending redefinition
of sector priorities by the Government. It resumed in 1977 but suffered
continuous delays. In June 1978, the Government submitted a proposal to
reduce the scope of the project and to cancel a large portion of the loan.
However, the new administration, which came to office in August 1978, retracted
the proposal and decided to proceed with the project as originally conceived.
Since reactivating the project, the Borrower has made progress in planning,
construction, educational programming and personnel training, and project
execution is proceeding normally.
9.   Ln. No. 926 Sixth Railway Project:  US$25 million, August 8, 1973.
Effective date: December 6, 1973
Closing date:  original - June 30, 1976
current - August 31, 1980
Because of severely constrained locomotive availability, freight
traffic in 1979 decreased by 5%, compared to the previous year. The Government
has provided substantial funds to assist CNR in obtaining necessary equipment
and spare parts to improve motive availability. Thus, performance is expected
to improve over the next few months. Together with the Bank, the Government
is studying further corrective measures aimed at enabling the railway to
fulfill its important role in facilitating continued economic growth in
Colombia, including provision of necessary services for the planned exploita-
tion of coal for export. As of March 31, 1980 only about US$200,000 of the
loan amount remained undisbursed.



- 33 -                                ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
10. Ln No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$27
million, January 16, 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    June 30, 1980
There were substantial delays in making the eight subloans effective.
The last subloan (Barranquilla) was made effective on September 9, 1976. In
spite of the fiscal restraint imposed by the Government's economic stabiliza-
tion measures, project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in most
cities. Works are expected to be completed by December 1980. Sub-borrowers
have not been implementing tariff adjustments as agreed, therefore, INSPOPAL
is proceeding to take corrective measures. As of March 31, 1980, US$12.8
million or 47% of the loan had been disbursed.
11. Ln No. 1073 Telecommunications III; US$15 million, January 16, 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    Original - December 31, 1978
Current - June 30, 1980
Contracts for all Bank-financed goods have been awarded, and work
is proceeding satisfactorily. Though many of the project works have been
commissioned and are earning revenue, project completion is not expected until
June 1981 because of earlier delays in procurement and building construction.
As of March 31, 1980, only US$600,000 million or 49% of the loan remained
undisbursed.
12. Ln No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million, June 2, 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    Original - October 31, 1979
Current - December 31, 1981
The loan became effective on April 1. 1976, after a six-month delay.
Project execution has proceeded rapidly and some of the lost time regained.
Road and bridge construction is well ahead of schedule (79 km have been
completed). School construction and the provision of sufficient credit are
lagging because of slow transfer of funds by the Government. As of March 31,
1980, US$8.6 million or 44% of the loan remained undisbursed.
13. Ln No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 million,
September 12, 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project and implementation is still behind
schedule. Maintenance of roads and drains constructed under the loan and
technical assistance to farmers are inadequate; however, corrective measures
are expected to be taken shortly. As of March 31, 1980, US$6.2 million of the
loan amount had been disbursed.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
14. Ln No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 million,
March 31, 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1980
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and virtually all loan
funds are committed. As of March 31, 1980, about 89% of the loan had been
disbursed.
15. Ln No, 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 7, 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is now in its fourth year of implementation and proceed-
ing satisfactorily in spite of its complexity. The project's components of
credit, technical assistance and training are proceeding satisfactorily, while
institutional coordination continues to be effective. The forestry and water
supply components have suffered some delays. Administrative procedures, such
as procurement and disbursement, continue to present some difficulties, but
they are much less serious than initially. Control and monitoring of project
execution is comprehensive, and first stage evaluation is currently underway.
As of March 31, 1980, US$15.0 million, or 29% of the loan had been disbursed.
16. Ln No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million, February 4,
1977.
Effective Date:   September 6, 1977
Closing Date:      December 31, 1981
The funds assigned to medium and large farmers are now fully committed.
Subloans made to small farmers have recently picked up and this portion of the
loan is expected to be fully committed by 1981. Concern over possible diversion
and substitution of subloan funds led the Borrower to increase substantially
its end-use supervision. About 73% of loan funds for credit to agroindustries
have been committed for 82 subprojects. As of March 31, 1980, US$37.1 million,
or 58% of the loan had been disbursed.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
17.  in. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$60 million, July 7, 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
The project has been delayed as a result of several personnel
changes in the Borrower. Current activities are concentrated on the procure-
ment of project goods, the planning of cable networks, trunk exchange expansion,
and design of buildings to house equipment. The Borrower is studying possible
ways to make up some of the time lost. As of March 31, 1980, US$54.4, or 91%
of the loan, remained undisbursed.
18. Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 27, 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1980
After initial delays in loan effectiveness mainly due to management
changeover, project implementation is proceeding well and loan funds should be
fully committed by June 30, 1980. As of March 31, 1980, US$7.1 million had
been disbursed.
19. Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 5, 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project comprises three main programs: rehabilitation, main-
tenance, and vehicle weight control. After initial delays, the project is now
developing satisfactorily. Stabilization and drainage works are progressing
well; contracts for 14 of the 32 construction lots have been signed and works
have commenced. The maintenance program began in January 1980, and consultants
to assist MOPT in executing the program have been retained. The vehicle
weight control program has experienced a 12-month delay but progress is now
satisfactory. As of March 31, 1980, about US$7.7 million had been disbursed.
20. Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
November 10, 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Significant progress has been achieved in the major components of
health, nutrition education and water supply. Initial delays occurred in two
subsidiary components--home food production and food quality control--but
activities are now underway. Project management and coordination have been
sound, flexible and effective. Evaluation systems are operating effectively.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 1?
21.        Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 20, 1978.
Effvctive Date: January 31, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
After an initial delay, project implementation is now satisfactory.
EMCALI's weak financial position remains the most critical issue in the
implementation of the project. EMCALI has agreed to take corrective measures
to restore the entity's financial viability and to improve management and
administrative procedures. The Bank is following up project execution and
financial management closely.
22.       Ln. No. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July
21, 1978.
Effective Date:  December 1. 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
The 1978 change of Government led to corresponding staff turnover
in the executing agency and to slow project start. While project execution
and coordination has recently improved, overall progress is still running
behind schedule. Project implementation plans in 16 of the 23 cities have
been approved by the Bank. Implementation plans in the next five project
zones are under preparation and expected to be ready for review by October
1980. The first disbursement application has been received and two more are
forthcoming. The new Directora General of SIP intends to accelerate project
implementation and has established a working unit in SIP for monitoring and
operational evaluation of the project.
23.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Hydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 14, 1978.
Effective Date:  April 5, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Project works are proceeding on schedule.
24.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million, July 14,
1978.
Effective Date: October 17, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Project works have recently been initiated. The Bank-financed
component (transmission line) is proceeding on schedule, at lower-than-
anticipated cost. However, project completion is likely to be delayed by
about one year as a result of the re-issuance of bids for the KfW-financed
component (substations).



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
25.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1, 1978.
Effective Date: January 30, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
After an initial delay due to procurement problems, project implemen-
tation is now running smoothly. A number of contracts have been signed, and
work is proceeding without delay.
26.       In. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project;
US$100 million, July 27, 1978.
Effective Date: November 28, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
By the end of March 31, 1980, about US$77.0 million had been committed
and an additional US$2.1 million, which has been approved by BR for subloans,
is presently being processed.
27.       Ln. No. 1624 Airports Project; US$61 million, December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: July 24, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
Project implementation is proceeding well.
28.       In. No. 1628 Mesitas Hydroelectric Power Project; US$84 million,
April 9, 1979.
Effective Date: August 21, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
Project works are well under way, although at higher-than-anticipated
cost.
29.       In. No. 1694 Second (Cartagena) Urban Development; US$13.5 million,
August 31, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
30.       Ln. No. 1697 Third Bogota Water Supply; US$30 million, November 30, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
31.       In. No. 1725 San Carlos II Hydro Power; US$72 million, November 30, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
32.       In. No. 1726 Third Water and Sewerage; US$31 million, November 30, 1979.
Execution of the project is scheduled to begin by June 1980.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
33.        Ln. No. 1737 Third Agricultural Credit; US$20 million, November 30, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
34.        Ln. No. 1762-CO Cerro Matoso Nickel; US$80 million, December 20, 1979.
This loan has not yet become effective.
35.        Ln. No. 1807-CO Bogota Power Distribution; US$87 million.
This loan was approved on March 13, 1980 but ig not yet signed.
36.        Ln. No. 1825-CO Fifth Telecommunications; US$44 million.
This loan was approved on March 27, 1980 but is not yet signed.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
GUADALUPE IV HYDRO POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 30 months
(b) Agency which prepared project: Empresas Publicas de Medellin
(c) First presentation to Bank: June 1977
(d) First mission to review project: August 1977
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission: November 25, 1979
(f) Completion of negotiations: May 6, 1980
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: November 30, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Assurances have been obtained that:
(a) annual audits of accounts for each of EPM's departments will be
carried out by independent external auditors satisfactory to the
Bank (paragraph 51);
(b) EPM would earn an annual rate of return on its revalued assets of
9% in 1980, 10.5% in 1981, 13% in 1982 and 1983, and 10% in 1984
and thereafter (paragraph 54);
(c) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EPM will not incur debt
in any fiscal year which would reduce the coverage of its maximum
future debt service by internal cash generation below 1.5 times
(paragraph 55);



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) without prior concurrence of the Bank, EPM will not make any
capital expenditures not directly related to the operations of
any of its departments (paragraph 55); and
(e) EPM will carry out a program to overcome the imbalance in its
energy pricing structure (paragraph 56).
A special condition of effectiveness is that EPM will make arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank to secure financing for the balance of its 1980-82
investment program (paragraph 52).



I           0ti>                                          \            <   <JV  
ILL
,   .  /f 2 i ,,i                                                      1
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C      0~~~~~~~~C
4i~~~~,- 
-C  E./                                                       115~~~~~~~ ~ C 
Mc  0--w  AIa
-o    ,  o  z  ,                                             4- ?
'  9,NV-



