OFFICTAL         LOAN NUMBER 1868 CO
Loan Agreement
(Guadalupe IV Hydro Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EMPRESAS PUBLICAS DE MEDELLIN
Dated                  b9             , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1868 CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    b   e enbe--  l1     , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and EMPRESAS PUBLICAS DE MEDELLIN (hereinafter
called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
Section 11.03 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 11.03. Action on behalf of the Borrower
or Guarantor. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be
executed, pursuant to the Loan Agreement or the Guaran-
tee Agreement, on behalf of the Borrower or the Guaran-
tor, may be taken or executed by the representative of
the Borrower, or of the Guarantor designated in the
Guarantee Agreement for the purposes of this Section, or
any person thereunto authorized in writing by such
representative. Any modification or amplification of
the provisions of the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee
Agreement may be agreed to on behalf of the Borrower or
the Guarantor by written instrument executed on behalf
of the Borrower or the Guarantor by such representatives
or any person thereunto authorized in writing by him;
provided that such modification or amplification is
reasonable in the circumstances and will not substan-
tially increase the obligations of the Borrower under
the Loan Agreement or of the Guarantor under the Guaran-
tee Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-2-
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Power Department" means the Borrower's power service
department;
(b) "Department" means one of the following of the Borrower's
departments: energla, telefonos, and acieducto and alcanta-
rillado;
(c) "Power Assets" means all electric power generating
plants, substations, transmission lines and related facilities and
assets assigned to the Power Department;
(d) "pesos" and "Col$" means pesos in the currency of the
Guarantor;
(e) "Estatutos" means the estatutos of the Borrower set
forth in Acuerdo No. 58 of 1955 of the Municipalidad de Medellin
issued in accordance with Decreto No. 1816 of 1955 as such estatu-
tos may be amended from time to time and such term shall include
all other applicable legislation of the Municipalidad de Medellin;
(f) "Telecommunications Loan Agreement" means the loan
agreement for Loan 1825-CO between the Bank and the Borrower, and
"Telecommunications Guarantee Agreement" means the guarantee
agreement for Loan 1825-CO between the Guarantor and the Bank;
(g) "First Power Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement
for Loan No. 225-CO of May 20, 1959 between the Bank and the
Borrower, and "First Power Guarantee Agreement" means the gia-
rantee agreement for Loan No. 225-CO of even date between the
Guarantor and the Bank;
(h) "Second Power Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement
for Loan No. 282-CO of May 12, 1961 between the Bank and the
Borrower, and "Second Power Guarantee Agreement" means the gua-
rantee agreement for Loan No. 282-CO of even date between the
Guarantor and the Bank;
(i) "Third Power Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement
for Loan No. 369-CO of February 7, 1964 between the Bank and the
Borrower, and "Third Power Guarantee Agreement" means the gua-
rante- agreement for Loan No. 369-CO of even date between the
Guarantor and the Bank;


﻿-3-
(j) "Fourth Power Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement
for Loan No. 874-CO of January 12, 1973 between the Bank and the
Borrower, and "Fourth Power Guarantee Agreement" means the gua-
rantee agreement for Loan No. 874-CO of even date between the
Guarantor and the Bank;
(k) "First Power Shareholder Agreement" means the share-
holder agreement for Loan 1582-CO of July 14, 1978 between the
Bank and the Borrower, and "Fifth Power Guarantee Agreement" means
the guarantee agreement for Loan 1582-CO of even date between the
Guarantor and the Bank;
(1) "Second Power Shareholder Agreement" means the share-
holder agreemeut for Loan 1725-CO of November 30, 1979 between the
Bank and the Borrower, and "Sixth Power Guarantee Agreement" means
the guarantee agreement for Loan 1725-CO of even date between the
Guarantor and the Bank;
(m) "Power Loan Agreements" means collectively the loan
agreements referred to in paragraphs (g), (h), (i) and (j) hereof;
(n) "Power Guarantee Agreements" means collectively the
guarantee agreements referred to in paragraphs (g), (h), (i), (j),
(k) and (1) hereof;
(o) "Power Shareholders' Agreements" means collectively
the shareholders' agreements referred to in paragraphs (k) and (1)
hereof; and
(p) "Investment Program" means the Borrower's investment
program set forth in Acta No. 931 of April 1979 of the Junta
Directiva of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to one hundred twenty-five million dollars ($125,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for


﻿-4-
expenditures made (or., if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank, to assist the Borrower in: (a)
the design and supervision of the carrying out of Part A of


﻿-5-
the Project, such consultants to be employed by the Borrower
not later than April 30, 1982; and
(b) the carrying out of the study referred to in Part F
(a) of the Project, such consultants to be employed by the Bor-
rower not later than December 31, 1981.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall by September 30, 1980,
employ consultants under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, in order to assist the Borrower in the design, procurement
and supervision for the carrying out of Part C of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to ensure that the Project is carried out with due regard to
ecological and environme tal factors.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable ir a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine


﻿-6-
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant reords
and documents.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the
construction and operation of the facilities included in the
Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acqui-
sition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations in accordance with appropriate
business, financial and public utility practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
adequate, experienced and competent staff.


﻿-7-
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall operate and maintain its
plants, equipment and property, and from time to time make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering standards; and shall at all times operate
its plants and equipment and maintain its financial position in
accordance with appropriate public utility and business practices.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the preceding para-
graph, the Borrower shall, under arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank, cause all of its dams, reservoir banks, waterways and
earthworks assigned to the Power Department to be periodically
inspected, in accordance with sound engineering practices, in
order to determine whether there are any deficiencies or potential
deficiencies in the condition of such structures and earthworks,
or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of
operation of such structures and earthworks which may endanger the
safety of such structures and earthworks.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall operate each of its Depart-
ments separately and shall, for the assets, revenues and expendi-
tures of each of its Departments, maintain separate records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations and financial condition
of such Departments.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) for each of its Depart-
ments, have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any


﻿-8-
case not later than five months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower's
Departments and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. Not later than three months after the end of
each calendar year, the Borrower shall for each of its Departments
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, showing
the Borrower's financial performance through the end of such year
and projected through the following twelve months.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank or
stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year. after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall not, without the consent
of the Bank, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially
all of its Power Assets or all or substantially all of the
property included in the Project or any plant included therein,
unless the Borrower shall first redeem and pay, or make adequate
provision satisfactory to the Bank for redemption or payments
of, all of the Loan which shall then be outstanding and unpaid.


﻿-9-
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt for the benefit of the opera-
tions of any Department, unless the net revenues earned on the
operations of such Department for the fiscal year next preceding
such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to
such incurrence, whichever amount is greater, shall be not less
than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirement for any
succeeding fiscal year on all debt, including the debt to be
incurred, to be serviced with revenues generated by the operations
of such Department. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) the term "debt" shall mean all debt of the Borrower,
including debt for the service of which the Borrower is respon-
sible, maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a con-
tract, loan agreement or other instrument providing for such debt
or for the modification of its terms of payment, on the date of
such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
has been entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed
debt is outstanding;
(c) the term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues
from all sources, adjusted to take account of the Borrower's
tariffs in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even
though they were not in effect during the fiscal year or twelve-
month period to which such revenues relate, less all operating and
administrative expenses and provision for taxes, if any, but
before provision covering depreciation, interest and other charges
on debt;
(d) (i) the term "debt service requirement" shall mean
the aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking fund
payments, if any), interest and other charges on debt; provided,
however, that in respect of the Borrower's Power Department this
term shall also include all amounts to be payable by the Borrower
to Interconexi6n El6ctrica S.A. (hereinafter called ISA) in
exchange for shares and bonds of ISA, as required by the Estatutos
of ISA (ii) for the purpose of sub-paragraph (i) hereof, the term
"Estatutos" means the estatutos of ISA dated September 14, 1967,
as amended as of the date of this Agreement and as further amended
from time to time, under which ISA was established and operates,
and the term "bonds" means titulos issued by ISA pursuant
to paragraph (b) of Article 12 of the Estatutos; and


﻿- 10 -
(e) whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor,
debt payable in another currency such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank and the Borrower, with the
concurrence of the Guarantor, shall otherwise agree:
(a) the Borrower shall establish and maintain for the
-services provided by each Department tariffs which will provide
revenues at least sufficient to cover its administrative and
operating expenses (including taxes, if any, contributions to the
Municipalidad de Medellin and adequate provision for maintenance
and depreciation), debt service in excess of depreciation, and a
reasonable contribution towards new capital investments of that
Department; provided, however, that the provisions of this para-
graph shall not be construed, under any circumstances, as limiting
the rate of return requirements for the Borrower's telephone
operations, as set forth in the Telecommunications Loan Agreement.
(b) without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower ir.
the carrying out of its power operations shall take all such steps
as shall be necessary (including adjustment of tariffs) in order
to generate an annual return at a rate of at least ten and a half
per cent (10.5%) in the year 1981, thirteen per cent (13%) in the
years 1982 and 1983 and ten per cent (10%) in the year 1984 and
thereafter, on the average net current value of its fixed Power
Assets in operation calculated in accordance with the method
outlined in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(c) the Borrower shall, within the first two months of, each
calendar quarter:
(i) calculate in respect of its Power Department:
(A) the actual return earned in the course of
the twelve-month period immediately preceding
such quarter;
(B) the return which, on the basis of reasonable
estimates, is expected to be earned in the
course of the twelve-month period beginning
with such quarter, after adding to or sub-
stracting from the estimated operating income
for such period any overrun or shortfall in


﻿- 11 -
the actual return for the preceding twelve-
month period; and
(ii) furnish to the Bank the assumptions for and the
results of such calculations; and
(d) if any such calculation shall show that the Borrower
cannot be expected to earn in respect of its Power Department the
return required under paragraph (b) during the twelve-month period
commencing with the calendar quarter in which the calculation is
made, the Borrower shall adjust its electric power tariffs
accordingly, and the adjusted tariffs shall be brought into effect
not later than the end of the following calendar quarter.
Section 5.08. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 5.07 of this Agreement, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall maintain the current 2.2%
monthly tariff increases through December 31, 1983.
Section 5.09. The Borrower shall obtain the concurrence of
the Bank before committing itself to, or making, any capital
expenditure not directly related to the operations of any of its
Departments.
Section 5.10. Until the Project shall have been completed:
(a) The Borrower shall: (i) inform the Bank on any proposal
of the Borrower to make any capital expenditure (not required for
the Project) for increasing its power generating capacity by more
than one-hundred megawatts; (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to comment on any such proposal; and (iii) not commit
itself to, nor make, any such capital expenditure unless the
proposed expenditure is economically justified as part of the
national power expansion program of Interconexi6n El6ctrica
S.A. and the Borrower has obtained financing under terms and
conditions which will not affect its financial condition, the
carrying out of the Project and the performance of its obligations
under the Power Shareholders' Agreements; and
(b) The Borrower shall obtain the concurrence of the Bank
before committing itself to any capital expenditure for the
benefit of its power operations if the aggregate of such capital
expenditure and all such other capital expenditures made or to be
made in any one fiscal year (excluding those referred to in
paragraph (a) above and those required for (i) the Project, (ii)


﻿- 12 -
payments to Interconexi6n E14ctrica S.A., and (iii) investments
included in the Borrower's Investment Program) exceed or will
exceed an amount equivalent to one per cent (1%) of the net
current value of the Borrower's fixed assets in operation,
as defined in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 5.11. The Borrower shall allocate all funds generated
by the Power Department exclusively to such Department and shall
not transfer such funds, or any portion thereof, to any of its
other Departments unless the funds proposed to be transferred
are in excess of those required by the Power Department to cover
all: (i) administrative, operating and maintenance expenses,
including the adequate funding of such reserves in respect of the
Borrower's power operations as shall be consistent with appro-
priate public utility and business practices; (ii) repayment of
loans (including sinking fund payments), interest and other
charges on debt; and (iii) capital expenditures, including the
Project; provided, however, that any such transfer shall be
treated as a loan from the Power Department to the other Depart-
ments, on commercial terms and conditions.
Section 5.12. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) for purposes of
revising the structure of the Borrower's tariffs and rates for its
services prepare, by March 31, 1981, a program satisfactory to
the Bank, such program to be prLpared taking into account the
conclusions of the study referred to in Sections 5.10 of the Power
Shareholders' Agreements and the comments of the Bank thereon; and
(ii) put into effect such program by May 30, 1981.
(b) In the event that the Borrower shall be unable to
prepare the program in paragraph (a) of this Section due to delays
in the conclusion of the study referred to in Sections 5.10 of the
Power Shareholders' Agreements the Borrower shall, by March 31,
1981, prepare an interim program, satisfactory to the Bank,
covering the period from May 30, 1981 through May 30, 1983, for
the same purposes as the program referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section and shall put into effect such interim program not
later than May 30, 1981; provided, however, that upon preparation
of the program referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, the
latter program shall be substituted for said interim program
and put into effect in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Amendment of the Fourth Power Loan Agreement
and Power Shareholders' Agreements
Section 6.01. The Fourth Power Loan Agreement is hereby
amended by the deletion of the text of Sections 4.04 (b) and 5.06
of such Agreement and the.substitution therefor of the text
of Sections 4.04 (b) and 5.07 of this Agreement, respectively.
Section 6.02. The Power Shareholders' Agreements are hereby
amended by the deletion of the text of Section 5.02 (a) (ii)
of each such Agreement and the substitution therefor of the
following text: "EPM, at least nine per cent (9%) in the year
1980, ten and a half per cent (10.5%) in the year 1981, thirteen
per cent (13%) in the years 1982 and 1983 and ten per cent (10%)
in the year 1984 and thereafter."
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Estatutos or any provision thereof shall have been
amended, suspended or abrogated, or new legislation shall have
been adopted by the Municipal Council of Medellfn which would
affect, materially and adversely, the operations or finan-
cial condition of the Borrower or the performance by the Borrower
of its obligations under the Loan Agreement; and
(b) a default shall have occurred in the performance of
any obligation (other than an obligation to pay monies) on the
part of the Borrower or the Guarantor under the Power Loan Agree-
ments, the Power Guarantee Agreements, the Power Shareholders'
Agreements, the Telecommunication Loan Agreement or the Tele-
communication Guarantee Agreement.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the events specified
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, have been
made in order to meet the Borrower's financing requirements for
the years 1980 through 1982.
Section 8.02. The date    1ewC      1) 1q)         is hereby
specified for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Empresas Pfblicas de Medellin
Calle 53, No. 52-16
Medellin
Colombia
Cable address:                      Telex:
EMPRESAS                           06649
Medellin


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  1I" t'JI'caYS      /A+ l4""e
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESAS PUBLICAS DE MEDELLIN
By                               RepresnTai
Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 37,000,000         52%
for Part A of
the Project
(2) Electro-                    21,000,000         100% of foreign
mechanical                                    expenditures
equipment                                     and 94% of the
(excluding                                    ex-factory cost
turbines and                                  of locally
generators) for                               manufactured
Part A of the                                 goods
Project
(3) Transmission                24,000,000         100% of foreign
lines and sub-                                expenditures
station mate-                                 and 94% of the
rial and equip-                               ex-factory cost
ment (Part B of                               of locally
the Project)                                  manufactured
goods
(4) Control Center               9,500,000         100% of foreign
(Part C of the                                expenditures
Project)                                      and 94% of the
ex-factory cost
of locally
manufactured
goods


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(5) Distribution                12,000,000         100% of foreign
equipment                                     expenditures
(Part D of the                                and 94% of the
Project)                                      ex-factory cost
of locally
manufactured
goods
(6) Special utility              1,500,000         100% of foreign
equipment (Part E                             expenditures
of the Project)                               and 94% of the
ex-factory cost
of locally
manufactured
goods
(7) Training                     1,000,000         100% of foreign
Part F of the                                 expenditures
Project
(8) Engineering                  6,000,000         100% of foreign
consulting                                    expend4tures
services                                      for foreign
consultants and
50% of local
expenditures
for local
consultants
(9) Unallocated                 13,000,000
TOTAL      125,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Guarantor; and


﻿- 18 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$500,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (3), (5) and
(6) of paragraph 1 above before that date but after May 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount


﻿- 19 -
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's development program and
consists of:
Part A:   Guadalupe IV Hydro Power Plant
Construction and equipping of the Guadalupe IV hydro elec-
tric station on the Guadalupe River comprising compensating tank,
intake works, power and pressure tunnels, surge tank and surface
penstocks; a surface type power house with three 71 MW turbo-
generator units operating under a head of 417 m and reserve
space for a fourth unit, together with accessory equipment;
and a substation including matched transformers and accessory
equipment.
Part B:   Transmission
(a) Acquisition and installation of about 50 km of 115 kV
transmission lines, and of about 100 km of 230 kV transmission
lines.
(b) Expansion of about five existing substations and
construction of about five new substations which would provide an
additional aggregate transformer capacity of about 420 MVA.
Part C:   Control Center
Part D:   Distribution
(a) Acquisition and installation of about: (i) 130 km of
overhead lines of 13.2 kV; (ii) 40 km of underground cables of
13.2 kV; (iii) 35 km of overhead lines of 44 kV; and (iv) 110 km
of LT lines.
(b) Acquisition and installation of distribution trans-
formers with an aggregate capacity of about 11 MVA.


﻿- 21 -
Part E:   Equipment
(a) Acquisition and utilization of special metering equip-
ment, including a cable fault locator, about 2,900 current sensors
and about 16 power registering meter systems.
(b) Acquisition and utilization of about 7 special utility
vehicles, line and cable tools, 30 mobile phones and 2 manhole
ventilatorso
Part F:   Studies, Training and Fellowships
(a) Carrying out, by September 30, 1982, a study of the
development of high voltage transmission facilities of the Bor-
rower.
(b) Carrying out, by December 31, 1984 a program, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, for the training of the Borrower's staff.
Part A of the Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1984, and Parts B, C, D, E and F are expected to be completed by
December 31, 1984.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment .f Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1984
through   September 15, 1996                4,810,000
On March 15, 1997                                4,750,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 23 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                              1.45%
before maturity
More than three years but not                          2.90%
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                            5.35%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                         7.30%
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years                                8.25%
before maturity


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender documents relating thereto, as the csp may
be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be pro-
cured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or &'e
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Colombia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 25 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Colombia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Colombia equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 26 -
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiv-
alent of US $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall


﻿- 27 -
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 5
Method for Calculating Rate of Return
1.   The annual return specified in Section 5.07 (b) of this
Agreement will be calculated, in each calendar quarter in respect
of the twelve-month period beginning with such quarter and the
twelve-month period immediately preceding, by using as the denom-
inator the average between the net current values of the respec-
tive fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at the end of
each such period and as numerator the operating income of the
Borrower for the same period.
2.   Any shortfall or overrun in the required annual return for
the twelve-month period immediately preceding the quarter in which
the calculation is to be made will be carried forward and sub-
tracted or added, as the case may be, to the numerator used for
the forthcoming twelve-month period.
3.   "Operating income" will be the difference between all reve-
nues from the sale of electricity, and all administrative and
operating costs relating thereto, including maintenance and
adequate provision for straight-line depreciation on the average
gross value of revalued fixed assets in operation.
4.   The net current value of fixed assets in operation will be at
any given date their gross value less accumulated depreciation to
such date, as revalued and depreciated in accordance with para-
graphs 5 and 7 below.
5.   Until another method for the maintenance of value of assets
of the Borrower shall have been established, the gross value of
the Borrower's fixed assets in operation and works in progress
will be revalued quarterly in accordance with the corresponding
variations in the Indice nacional de precios al consumidor - Nivel
1 - published by the Departamento Administrativo Nacional de
Estadistica of the Guarantor, to the last month preceding the
quarter in which the calculation is to be made. For the purposes
of this calculation as of December 31, 1976:
(a) the aggregate gross value of the Borrower's fixed
assets in operation will be fixed at eight thousand forty-four
million pesos (Col$8,044,000,000);
(b) the aggregate gross value of the Borrower's fixed
assets in construction will be fixed at three thousand one hundred
forty-eight million pesos (Col$3,148,000,000); and


﻿- 29 -
(c) the accumulated depreciation on the assets in (a)
hereof will be fixed at one thousand seven hundred seventy-nine
million pesos (Col$1,779,000,000).
6.   The Borrower will furnish to the Bank during the first
quarter of each fiscal year a report on the revaluation of assets
through the end of the preceding fiscal year.
7.   Depreciation will be charged on a straight-line basis over
the estimated useful life of the Borrower's fixed assets.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  L9      day of     . ,198 o_
FOR SECRETARY


