Page  1
CONFORMED 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3945 SL 
 
Project 
Agreement
 
(Power and Water Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
GUMA VALLEY WATER COMPANY 
 
Dated July 6, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3945 SL 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and GUMA VALLEY WATER 
COMPANY (GVWC). 
WHEREAS (A)  by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between Republic of Sierra Leone (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to twenty four million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 24,200,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
conditions that GVWC agree to undertake certain of such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B) 
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
GVWC (the GVWC Subsidiary Agreement), part of the proceeds of the Credit as 
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to GVWC 
on the terms and conditions set forth in said GVWC Subsidiary Agreement; and 
WHEREAS GVWC, in consideration of the Associ
ation’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) GVWC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end it shall 
carry out Part B.3 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices, provide or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the carrying out of Part B.3 of the Project.  
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and GVWC shall otherwise agree, GVWC shall carry out 
Part B.3 of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement, including the monitoring and 
reporting obligations set forth therein. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part B.3 of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, as said provisions may be further 
elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
Section 2.03. (a) GVWC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part B.3 of the Project. 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, GVWC shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and GVWC, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project objectives; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with GVWC on said plan. 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.04. GVWC shall duly perform all its obligations under the GVWC 
Subsidiary Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GVWC shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the GVWC Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) GVWC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part B.3 of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the GVWC Subsidiary 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
(b) 
GVWC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Part B.3 of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by GVWC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the GVWC Subsidiary Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of GVWC 
Section 3.01. GVWC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and public utility practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. GVWC shall at all times operate and maintain its buildings, office 
space, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make 
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and public utility practices. 
Section 3.03. GVWC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  GVWC shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in 
Page  5
-
4
-
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Association, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to Part B.3 of the Project 
and GVWC’s general operations. 
(b) GVWC 
shall: 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each FY audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon GVWC’s reporting obligations set out 
in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement, GVWC shall prepare and furnish to 
the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
Page  6
-
5
-
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such quarter.  
Section 4.03. GVWC shall:   
(a) 
Continue its program for the annual revaluation of its assets in 
accordance with consistently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to the 
Association. 
(b) 
Carry out a tariff study on the tariff structure and the required pattern of 
tariff increase to reach the financial equilibrium as defined through a financial model to 
be developed for this purpose, all under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. 
(c) 
Determine its tariff structure on the basis of metered water consumption 
and as a result, starting on January 1, 2006: (i) cease from billing households without 
connection on the general water rate category; and (ii) start billing households on the 
basis of metered water consumption.  
(d) 
Improve its commercial operating ratios based on the indicators to be 
developed as a result of the technical advisory services provided under Part B.3 of the 
Project and in consultation with the Association.      
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GVWC shall, 
with respect to its water operations, take all necessary action (including adjustment of its 
water tariffs) to earn for its fiscal year ending December 31, 2005 and each of its fiscal 
years following thereafter, an annual return before taxes to be calculated during Project 
implementation based on sound financial analysis acceptable to the Association, and as 
further detailed in subparagraphs (b) (i) through (vi) of this Section. 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
the annual return shall be calculated by dividing GVWC's net 
operating income for the fiscal year in question by one-half of 
Page  7
-
6
-
the sum of the current net value of GVWC's fixed assets in 
operation at the beginning and at the end of that fiscal year; 
(ii) 
the term "net operating income" means total operating revenues 
less total operating expenses; 
(iii) 
the term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations; 
(iv) 
the term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including  administration, adequate maintenance and 
provision for depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate of not 
less than 4% of the average current gross value of GVWC's fixed 
assets in operation, or other basis acceptable to the Association, 
but excluding interest and other charges on debt and taxes; 
(v) 
the average current gross value of GVWC's fixed assets in 
operation shall be calculated as one-half of the sum of the gross 
value of GVWC's fixed assets in operation at the beginning 
and at the end of the fiscal year, as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the Association; and 
(vi) 
the term "current net value of GVWC's fixed assets in operation" 
means the gross value of GVWC's fixed assets in operation less 
the amount of accumulated depreciation, as valued from time to 
time in accordance with sound and consistently maintained 
methods of valuation satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GVWC shall, 
with respect to its water and sewerage operations, take all necessary action (including 
adjustment of its sewerages charges, when applicable) to produce for each of its fiscal 
years total revenues from the said operations equivalent to not less than the sum of its 
total cash operating expenses and debt service payments related to its water and sewerage 
operations (the latter when applicable). 
(b) 
Before March 1 in each fiscal year referred to in paragraph (a) above, 
GVWC shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by GVWC and satisfactory to the 
Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in said paragraph in 
Page  8
-
7
-
respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the 
Association the results of such review upon its completion. 
(c) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
the term "total revenues" means the sum of total operating 
revenues and net non-operating income; 
(ii) 
the term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources relating to sewerage operations; 
(iii) 
the term "net non-operating income" means the difference 
between: 
(A) 
revenues from all sources not related to 
sewerage operations, and 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu 
of taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues 
in (A) above. 
(iv) 
the term "total cash operating expenses" means all expenses 
related to sewerage operations, including administration, 
adequate maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes 
but excluding provision for depreciation and interest and other 
charges on debt. 
Section 4.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GVWC shall not, 
for each of its fiscal years following next after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 
2005, incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of 
GVWC for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 
times the estimated debt service requirements of GVWC in such year on all debt of 
GVWC including the debt to be incurred. 
Section 4.07. For the purposes of Sections 4.05 and 4.06 of this Agreement: 
(ii) 
the term "debt" means any indebtedness of GVWC maturing by 
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(iii) 
debt shall be deemed to be incurred: 
(A) 
under a loan contract or agreement or other 
instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date 
of such contract, agreement or instrument, and 
(B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the 
agreement providing for such guarantee has 
been entered into. 
(iv) 
the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt; and 
(v) 
the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by 
GVWC not earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of 
the debt in question, which both the Association and GVWC 
accept as reasonable and as to which the Association has notified 
GVWC of it acceptability, provided that no event has occurred 
since such notification which has or may reasonably be expected 
in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial 
condition or future operating results of GVWC. 
Section 4.08. Whenever for the purposes of Sections 4.03, 4.04, 4.05, 4.06 and 
4.07 of this Agreement, it shall be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the 
Borrower, debt payable in another currency such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of such 
valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such 
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
GVWC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify GVWC of this event. 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are: 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  
64145 (MCI) 
 
For Guma Valley Water Company (GVWC): 
 
P.O.Box 700 
 
Lamina Sankoh St., Freetown 
 
Sierra Leone 
 
Cable address:  
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
GUWATER 
  (232) 
22-228394 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of GVWC, or by 
GVWC on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be 
taken or executed by the Managing Director of GVWC or such other person or persons as 
GVWC shall designate in writing, and GVWC shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By   
Authorized Representative 
 
GUMA VALLEY WATER COMPANY 
 
By  
Authorized Representative
 
