Page  1
CONFORMED 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3945 SL 
 
Project Agreement
 
(Power and Water Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
NATIONAL POWER AUTHORITY 
 
Dated July 6, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3945 SL 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and NATIONAL POWER 
AUTHORITY (NPA). 
 
WHEREAS (A)  by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between Republic of Sierra Leone (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to twenty four million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 24,200,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
conditions that NPA agree to undertake certain of such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and NPA (the NPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement), part of the proceeds of the 
Credit as provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available 
to NPA on the terms and conditions set forth in said NPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
and 
 
WHEREAS NPA, in consideration of
 the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) NPA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end it shall 
carry out Parts A.1 (d), A.2 (a), (b), (c) and (d), A.3 and A.4 of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering and public utility practices, provide or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the carrying out of 
Parts A.1 (d), A.2 (a), (b), (c) and (d), A.3 and A.4 of the Project.  
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and NPA shall otherwise agree, NPA shall carry out Parts 
A.1 (d), A.2 (a), (b), (c) and (d), A.3 and A.4 of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement, 
including the monitoring and reporting obligations set forth therein. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A.1 (d), A.2 (a), (b), (c) and (d), 
A.3 and A.4 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
Section 2.03. (a) NPA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A.1 (d), A.2 (a), 
(b), (c) and (d), A.3 and A.4 of the Project. 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, NPA shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and NPA, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project objectives; and 
Page  4
-
3
-
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with NPA on said plan. 
Section 2.04. NPA shall duly perform all its obligations under the NPA 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NPA shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the NPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) NPA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts A.1 (d), A.2 (a), (b), (c) and (d), 
A.3 and A.4  of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and 
under the NPA Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Credit. 
(b) 
NPA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Parts A.1 (d), A.2 (a), (b), (c) 
and (d), A.3 and A.4  of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or 
the performance by NPA of its obligations under this Agreement and under the NPA 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of NPA 
Section 3.01. NPA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and public utility practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. NPA shall at all times operate and maintain its buildings, office 
space, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make 
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and public utility practices. 
Section 3.03. NPA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  NPA shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Association, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to Part A of the Project and 
NPA’s general operations. 
(b) NPA 
shall: 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each FY audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon NPA’s reporting obligations set out in 
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement, NPA shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
Page  6
-
5
-
provided under the Credit, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances between 
the actual
 
and planned Project implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
Section 4.03. 
NPA shall:  
(a) Reduce its accounts receivables to at least: (i) 90 days in 2005; and (ii) 
60 days in 2006 and thereafter. 
(b) As of January 1, 2005, revaluate its assets, on an annual basis, in 
accordance with consistently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to the 
Association. 
(c) By September 1 of each fiscal year, provide to the Association for its 
review and comments, its rolling multi-year investment program. 
(d)  Not enter into any investment of $1,000,000 equivalent or more without 
undertaking consultations with the Association. 
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NPA shall 
produce for: (i) its fiscal year ending December 31, 2005, total revenues equivalent to not 
less than the sum of its total cash operating expenses (excluding interest and other 
charges on debt); and (ii) its fiscal year ending December 31, 2006, and thereafter, total 
revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its total cash operating expenses and 
interest and other charges on debt. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
Before December 31, 2005, NPA shall, on the basis of forecasts 
prepared by NPA and satisfactory to the Association, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) (i) 
of this Section in respect of fiscal year 2006 and shall furnish to the 
Association the results of such review upon its completion. 
(c) 
(c) For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
the term "total revenues" means the sum of total operating 
revenues and net non-operating income; 
(ii) 
the term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations; 
(iii) 
the term "net non-operating income" means the difference 
between: (A) revenues from all sources not related to operations; 
and (B) expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above; and 
(iv) 
the term "total cash operating expenses" means all expenses 
related to operations, including administration, adequate 
maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes but 
excluding provision for depreciation. 
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NPA shall 
produce for its fiscal year ending December 31, 2004 and each of its fiscal years 
following thereafter total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of its total 
operating expenses and interest and other charges on debt. 
(b) 
Before January 1, in each fiscal year referred to in paragraph (a) above, 
NPA shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by NPA and satisfactory to the Association, 
review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in said paragraph in respect of 
such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the 
results of such review upon its completion. 
(c) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
the term "total revenues" means the sum of total operating 
revenues and net non-operating income; 
Page  8
-
7
-
(ii) 
the term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations; 
(iii) 
the term "net non-operating income" means the difference 
between:  
(A)  revenues from all sources not related to operations; and 
(B) expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.  
(iv) 
the term "total operating expenses" means all expenses 
related to operations, including administration, adequate 
maintenance and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and 
provision for depreciation calculated on the basis of NPA's 
fixed assets in operation as revalued under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NPA shall take 
all necessary action to earn for its fiscal year ending December 31, 2005 and each of its 
fiscal years following thereafter, an annual return for: (i) fiscal year 2005 of not less than 
1% of the average current net value of NPA's fixed assets in operation; (i) fiscal year 
2006 of not less than 3% of the average current net value of NPA's fixed assets in 
operation; and (ii) each of the fiscal years following thereafter not less than 4% of the 
average current net value of said fixed assets. 
(b) 
Before January 1 in each fiscal year referred to in paragraph (a) above, 
NPA shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by NPA and satisfactory to the Association, 
review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in said paragraph in respect of 
such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the 
results of such review upon its completion. 
(c) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
The annual return shall be calculated by dividing NPA's net 
operating income for the fiscal year in question by one half of 
the sum of the current net value of NPA's fixed assets in 
operation at the beginning and at the end of that fiscal year; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(ii) 
the term "net operating income" means total operating revenues 
less total operating expenses; 
(iii) 
the term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations; 
(iv) 
the term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for 
depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate of: (i) for fiscal year 
2005, not less than 1% of the average current net value of NPA's 
fixed assets in operation; (ii) for fiscal year 2006, not less than 
3% of the average current net value of NPA's fixed assets in 
operation; and (iii) for each of the fiscal years following 
thereafter not less than 4% of the average current net value of 
said fixed assets in operation, or other basis acceptable to the 
Association, but excluding interest and other charges on debt; 
(v) 
the average current gross value of NPA's fixed assets in 
operation shall be calculated as one-half of the sum of the gross 
value of NPA's fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at 
the end of the fiscal year, as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the Association; and 
(vi) 
the term "current net value of NPA's fixed assets in operation" 
means the gross value of NPA's fixed assets in operation less the 
amount of accumulated depreciation, as valued from time to time 
in accordance with sound and consistently  maintained methods 
of valuation satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 4.07. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NPA shall not, 
for each of its fiscal years following next after its fiscal year ending on March 31, 2005, 
incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of NPA for 
each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the 
estimated debt service requirements of NPA in such year on all debt of NPA including 
the debt to be incurred. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
the term "debt" means any indebtedness of NPA maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred; 
(ii) 
debt shall be deemed to be incurred: 
(A) 
under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument 
providing for such debt or for the modification of its 
terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument, and 
(B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing for such guarantee has been entered into. 
(iii) 
the term "net revenues" means the difference between: 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations and net non-operating income, and 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate 
maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt. 
(iv) 
the term "net non-operating income" means the difference between: 
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
(v) 
the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges on, debt; and 
Page  11
-
10 - 
(vi) 
the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by NPA not 
earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both the Association and NPA accept as reasonable 
and as to which the Association has notified NPA of its acceptability, 
provided that no event has occurred since such notification which has, 
or may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material 
adverse effect on the financial condition or future operating results of 
NPA. 
Section 4.08. Whenever for the purposes of Sections 4.03, 4.04, 4.05, 4.06 and 
4.07 of this Agreement, it shall be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the 
Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of such 
valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt or, in the absence of such 
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association. 
Section 4.09. (a) NPA shall provide in its tariff structure for the adjustment, 
under a formula satisfactory to the Association, of its electricity rates to levels 
appropriate to changes that may occur: (i) in the rates of exchange between the dollar and 
the Leone; (ii) in fuel costs; and (iii) taking into account the thermal-hydro mix of power 
generation. 
(b) 
NPA shall: (i) review the levels and structure of its tariffs; and (ii) 
furnish to the Association semi-annually by June 30 and December 31 of each year a 
report on (A) the adequacy of its tariffs to meet NPA's financial objectives under the 
Project, and (B) the effects of its tariffs on autogeneration of electricity by consumers. 
Section 4.10. If any such review as is referred to in paragraph (b) of Sections 
4.04, 4.05, 4.06 and 4.09 above shows that NPA would not meet the requirements set 
forth in the said paragraph of the said Sections, NPA shall promptly take all necessary 
measures (including adjustments of the structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet 
such requirements. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
Page  12
-
11 - 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
NPA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement. 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify NPA of this event. 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are: 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  
64145 (MCI) 
 
For National Power Authority (NPA): 
 
National Power Authority 
 
Electricity House 
 
36
Siaka Stevens Street, Freetown 
 
Republic of sierra Leone 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
  Telex: 
  
Facsimile: 
 
ELECTRON FREETOWN 
3268 
 or 
(232) 22-224067 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of NPA, or by NPA 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the General Manager of NPA or such other person or persons as NPA shall 
designate in writing, and NPA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By   
Authorized Representative 
 
NATIONAL POWER AUTHORITY 
 
By  
Authorized Representative
 
