Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  11/20/2008 
Report No.:  AC3985
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Ethiopia 
Project ID:  P113156 
Project Name:  ETHIOPIA GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE PRO 
Task Team Leader:  Achim Fock 
Estimated Appraisal Date: November 19, 
2008 
Estimated Board Date: December 4, 2008 
Managing Unit:  AFTAR 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (100%) 
Theme:  Global food crisis response (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
250.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
1. 
This operation seeks to increase the likelihood that crop production in 2009 will 
remain on or near the growth trend of recent years.  To that end, the development 
objective is to contribute to the Government’s efforts to ensure availability of adequate 
supplies of fertilizers for the 2009 crop season. Key indicators of success would include 
(a) the quantity of fertilizer imported, (b) the timeliness of import and distribution of 
fertilizer and complementary inputs to end users, and (c) estimates of the costs and 
contribution of the fertilizer to production.   
 
3. Project Description 
The proposed instrument is an Emergency Recovery Operation to be processed under 
OP/BP 8.00.  Since such instrument can make funds available quickly, it is well-suited to 
respond to Ethiopia’s short-term needs for financing the import of chemical fertilizers. 
The operation is proposed to be financed through the reallocation of undisbursed IDA 
resources from Ethiopia’s ongoing IDA portfolio and new IDA commitments.  
 
The operation will provide Ethiopia with necessary foreign exchange to import chemical 
fertilizers over the next few months for distribution and application in next crop season.  
Page  2
Relying largely on Ethiopia’s national tender procedures, the foreign exchange will be 
allocated to the domestic importer(s) that has obtained the lowest price offer(s) from 
foreign fertilizer suppliers. Fertilizer import and distribution itself will be through 
importers, in particular farmer cooperatives and their unions.  This system, while not 
without flaws, is well established and able to ensure wide-spread distribution, with a 
focus on small-holder farmers.  In addition to the fertilizer component, a small but 
important monitoring and evaluation (M&E) activity is proposed to track the various 
steps along the input distribution system, and to assess the impact of the operation on 
farmers and women.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The Project will be country-wide; the distribution of the imported fertilizers is expected 
to be concentrated in the more highly productive crop production areas, especially in 
Oromia and Amhara Region States and, to a lesser extend, in SNNPR and Tigray 
Regional State.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Yasmin Tayyab (AFTCS) 
Mr Edward Felix Dwumfour (AFTEN) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Summary of Key Safeguard Issues  
 
1.
Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:  
 
While this project is unlikely to cause any significant adverse social safeguard impacts, 
it is likely to affect gender, health and safety if fertilizer storage, distribution, transport, 
application and disposal of leftovers and containers are not done properly. Experience has 
shown that women (particularly women-headed households) tend to be marginalized in 
Page  3
the supply and distribution of farm inputs such as fertilizers and pesticides. It is expected 
that the social assessment to be conducted as part of the EA will elaborate on these social 
impacts of project activities outside safeguards; clarify how rural women farmers can 
participate in project activities, including fertilizer supplies and distribution without any 
discrimination. The EA that is expected to be done by the client will establish a checklist 
of possible social impacts outside safeguard and  identify corresponding mitigation 
measures, including the identification of environmental training needs and capacity 
building measures, institutional arrangements and responsibilities for implementation and 
monitoring of mitigation plans.  
 
With regard to health and safety impacts, improper storage, distribution, use and 
application fertilizers as well as disposal of leftovers and containers can lead to pollution 
of the atmosphere, soils and water sources resulting in skin diseases, nausea and 
dizziness, inflammations of the nasal tract and poisoning as people come into direct 
contact with them or inhale fertilizer dust in the atmosphere.  
 
This project will benefit settler farmers in relatively accessible areas and is unlikely to 
work with pastoralist communities. Therefore OP 4.10 (Indigenous Peoples) will not be 
triggered.  
 
GFRP will not finance new construction of storage facilities since the imports to be 
financed by IDA is well below the annual amounts that come into the country. Existing 
storage facilities will be sufficient to accommodate the imports. In this regard, no 
environmental or social safeguard impacts are anticipated.  
 
Implementation of activities under the GFRP may pose some significant environmental 
risks that may be as a result of poor storage, distribution, transport, indiscriminate 
application and disposal of fertilizers and their containers. Potential impacts include 
leakage and drainage into soils and water bodies (including underground aquifers) 
causing saline conditions, acidification and nutrient accumulation, and resulting in 
emergence of noxious aquatic weeds such as algae and also affecting water quality by 
increasing turbidity and changing the taste of the water.  Although the GFRP facility will 
not finance the purchase and distribution of pesticides, it is expected that increased 
fertilizer use in crop production could lead to increased use of pesticides, including 
weedicides. Indiscriminate use of pesticides and disposal of leftovers and containers may 
adversely affect the environment (contamination of soil and water, pollution of the 
atmosphere, toxicity to non-target organisms, etc), health and safety of people using the 
chemicals and those in the vicinity of the project.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
N/A   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not relevant   
Page  4
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
There are two key public institutions that are directly responsible for monitoring 
environmental compliance. These are the Environmental Protection Authority (EPA) and 
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MoARD), which have so far 
decentralized to the regional level. In the case of MoARD, decentralization has gone 
further to the woreda and kebele levels. There exist a critical mass of capacity within the 
(MoARD) and EPA at the federal and decentralized levels to manage environmental and 
social safeguard issues and provide effective extension support to farmers and pastoralists 
in the application of agro-chemicals including fertilizers. MoARD will establish 
understanding with the 17 soil testing laboratories spread all over the country to provide 
soil testing support, including proposing appropriate doses for different soils so as to 
prevent overuse of fertilizer.  
 
As part of the overall effort to ensure that environmental and social safeguard is fully 
mainstreamed in the project, MoARD will continue its public education and awareness 
creation programs with the aim of reaching out to beneficiaries of the project, and 
training of key staff from MoARD, particularly at the woreda and kebele levels and other 
collaborating institutions, including civil society organizations, input suppliers and 
distributors as well as beneficiary farmers. MoARD has been conducting farmer field 
schools where farmers receive hands-on training on a number of agronomic practices 
including integrated pest management (IPM) and safe use of agrochemicals.  These 
farmer field schools will need to continue with financing from other ongoing IDA-
financed projects. Ideally, these processes should be started immediately, so that a critical 
mass of expertise would be already on the ground prior to roll out of project activities.  
 
MoARD has developed guidelines for agro-chemical and fertilizer application, which is 
widely used by the Development Agents at the woreda level as a guide in advising 
farmers on the distribution, transport, storage and application of agrochemicals as well as 
the disposal of leftovers and containers. These guidelines emphasize the large-scale 
adoption of integrated pest management (IPM) practices as the best appropriate, cost-
effective and environmentally safe option for disease and pest prevention and control. 
MoARD has under the Africa Stockpiles Program and through FAO technical assistance 
developed extensive capacity in the management and monitoring of agrochemical, 
particularly pesticides imports, collection (of banned and obsolete chemicals), storage, 
distribution, use and application as well as the disposal of leftovers and containers.  
 
Since this project is being processed under OP/BP 8.00 (Emergency Recovery Loan), 
the MoARD in collaboration with EPA will prepare an Environmental Assessment report 
within 2 months of effectiveness. This EA report will have, as attachment, simple 
guidance notes for safe management of the fertilizer consignment expected to arrive in 
the country, compliance monitoring arrangements and mechanisms, relevant institutional 
capacity building measures as well as relevant environmental awareness creation and 
training programs.   
 
Page  5
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The key stakeholders are the farmers, farmer cooperatives and their unions, and other 
importers. Consultations with these stakeholders are being conducted as part of the 
preparation. Further consultations will take place during the environmental and social 
assessment and the preparation of the environmental management plan.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
01/30/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
01/30/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
01/30/2009 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
01/30/2009 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
01/30/2009 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
01/30/2009 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
No 
Page  6
review and approve the EA report? 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
No 
OP 4.09 - Pest Management 
 
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? 
Yes 
Is a separate PMP required? 
No 
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or 
SM?  Are PMP requirements included in project design?  If yes, does the 
project team include a Pest Management Specialist? 
No 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
No 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
No 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Achim Fock 
11/20/2008 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Edward Felix Dwumfour 
11/20/2008 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Yasmin Tayyab 
11/20/2008 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
Ms Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt 
11/20/2008 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Ms Karen Mcconnell Brooks 
11/20/2008 
Comments:   
