Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17935
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 3073-CHA/CREDIT 2025-CHA)
June 1, 1998
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y) = 100 Fen
1989               $1= Y 3.76
1990              $1= Y 4.78
1991               $1= Y 5.32
1992               $1= Y 5.76
1994               $1= Y 8.60
1995               $1= Y 8.35
1996               $1= Y 8.30
1997               $1=Y8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)               =      3.28 feet (ft
1 kilometer (km)          =      0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)    =    0.4 square miles (mi )
1 hectare (ha) = 0.01 km  =      2.47 acres (ac) = 15 mu
2
1 mu                      =      666.7 m = 0.0667 ha
Vice President     Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director    Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager     Jeffrey Gutman, EASTR
Task Manager       Hatim Hajj, Principal Transport Specialist, EASTR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT    -  Average Daily Traffic
DF      -  Diversion Factor
E&M    -  Electronic, Electrical and Mechanical
ERR     -  Economic Rate of Return
FRR     -  Financial Rate of Return
HPDI   -  Highway Planning and Design Institute
HSRI        Highway Scientific Research Institute
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
ICR     -  Implementation Completion Report
JQE     -  Jinan-Qingdao Expressway
JQEMB  -  Jinan-Qingdao Expressway Management Bureau
LCB     -  Local Competitive Bidding
MOC    -  Ministry of Communications
NPV     -  Net Present Value
PCR     -  Project Completion Report
pkm     -  Passenger-kilometer
PMS    -  Pavement Management System
RDB    -  Road Data Bank
SAR     -  Staff Appraisal Report
SPTD    -  Shandong Provincial Transport Department
tkm     -  Ton-kilometer
TOR    -  Terms of Reference
vkm     -  Vehicle-kilometer
VOC    -  Vehicle Operating Cost
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CONTENTS
PREFACE ........................................................                                                         iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................................................v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..................................1
A. Project Objectives and Description ........................................................                1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ........................................................                 2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .............. 11
D. Project Sustainability .......................................................                            12
E. Bank Group Performance .......................................................                            13
F. Borrower Performance .......................................................                              14
G. Assessment of Outcome .......................................................                             15
H. Future Operations .......................................................                                 16
I. Key Lessons Learned .......................................................                               16
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .......................................................                                    18
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .......................................................                    ;.18
Table 2: Related Bank Group Loans/Credits ................................................... 19
Table 3: Project Timetable ......................................................                           20
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual ........... 20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ....................................... 21
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operations .............................................. 21
Table 7: Studies included in Project ......................................................                   21
Table 8a: Project Costs ......................................................                              22
Table 8b: Project Costs ......................................................                              23
Table 8c: Project Financing .......................................................                         24
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .......................................................                    24
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .......................................................                   25
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .......................... 26
Table 12: Bank Group Resources: Staff Inputs ............................................... 26
Table 13: Bank Group Resources: Missions .................................................... 26
ANNEX 1: ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL EVALUATION .............................. 27
TABLE 6: FINANCIAL EVALUATION ......................................................                                    44
ANNEX 2: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ............................. 46
ANNEX 3: APRIL 1997 SUPERVISION MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE .......... 57



I



- 111 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 3073-CHA/CREDIT 2025-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Shandong Provincial
Highway Project in China for which Loan 3073-CHA in the amount of $60 million
equivalent and Credit 2025-CHA in the amount of SDR 38.8 million ($50.0 million
equivalent) were approved on September 8, 1989 and made effective on December 11,
1989. The loan and credit were frilly disbursed and the last disbursement took place on
July 24, 1997.
The ICR, under the guidance of Messrs. Otto Raggambi (Consultant, Highway
Engineer) and Hatim Hajj (Task Manger), Transport Department (EASTR) of the East
Asia and Pacific Region was prepared by Manzoor Rehman (Consultant). Mr. Han-Kang
Yen (Research Analyst) carried out economic and financial analysis for the completed
project. The borrower's implementation evaluation summary for the project is annexed to
the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began in April 1997, and an ICR mission had discussions
with representatives of the Ministry of Communications (MOC) and the Shandong
Provincial Transport Department (SPTD) regarding the preparation of the ICR. The ICR
is based on discussions held in the field, materials available in the project file and
additional data provided by SPTD. SPTD has also submitted to the Bank Group a copy of
its evaluation report for the Jinan-Qingdao Expressway (JQE) and other project
components.






CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 3073-CHA/CREDIT 2025-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction and Project Objectives
1.   In response to increasing demand for road transport services arising from the
accelerated development of the economy during the early 1 980s the Chinese Government
decided to accord high priority to increasing road transport capacity in heavily trafficked
corridors connecting major cities and industrial centers in the various regions of the
country. The Shandong Provincial Highway Project was formulated to provide adequate
road transport capacity in the Jinan-Qingdao corridor through the construction of a new
high-class highway. In addition, the scope of project also included the following
components for technology transfer to provincial institutions involved in the road
transport subsector: (a) improving road planning techniques; (b) evaluating paved road
network condition and preparing pavement strengthening and maintenance management
programs; (c) developing institutional capacity for supervising road construction works;
(d) carrying out staff training; (e) strengthening highway research; and (f) improving road
safety.
2.    The objectives and the scope of the project reflected the road infrastructure
improvement priority of Shandong Province, the Central Government's developmental
strategy and the Bank Group's assistance strategy for the road transport subsector.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The main objective of the project of meeting road transport demand in the heavily
trafficked corridor between Jinan and Qingdao was achieved by completing the
construction of the 319 km Jinan-Qingdao Expressway (JQE) by the end of 1993. The
1997 average daily traffic on the Expressway was higher than that projected at appraisal.
However, because of the substantial increase in the overall investment in the JQE
compared to appraisal assumptions, the ICR's estimate of about 19 percent for the ERR
falls below the appraisal estimate of 23 percent. In addition to cost increases over and
above appraisal estimates, mostly due to the impact of high inflation during the
implementation period, additional items of works were undertaken and further
expenditures incurred, which were not taken into account at the time of project appraisal.
However, most of the additional investments were made in the interest of enhancing the
operational efficiency of the JQE. These included the cost of the installation of traffic



- vi -
monitoring, telecommunications and tolling systems, the construction of service and
maintenance facilities and fencing of the JQE's right-of-way along its entire length.
4.    Civil works were completed as scheduled and the JQE was opened to traffic at the
end of 1993. However, the completion of the project as a whole was delayed by about
two years, due primarily to the delayed completion of the installation of traffic
monitoring, telecommunications and tolling systems. The circumstances leading to the
delay were such that the Bank Group had no objection to extending the loan and credit
closing dates by two years to June 30, 1997.
5.    The key features of the implementation of the other project components are as
follows:
(a)   Equipment acquisition for the maintenance of the JQE was delayed by almost two
years and the type and number of units acquired were modified resulting in an
about 50 percent increase in cost. There was no substantial change in the
acquisition of equipment for road condition survey and road research. Equipment
for traffic monitoring, telecommunications and tolling systems were not procured
separately as originally planned. Instead, the Bank Group agreed to the financing
of a contract covering both the supply of equipment and the installation works for
establishing these systems. A small amount was used for acquiring safety
equipment following the recommendations of a study of the JQE's safety
problc
(b)   The staff training program was implemented more or less as planned and with
only minor deviation in cost. However, almost twice as many people were
involved in the training programs but over shorter periods of training.
(c)   A pilot study for pavement evaluation and formulation of road improvement and
management programs was satisfactorily completed under a Finnish bilateral aid.
The expansion of the program for the primary 17,000 km national and provincial
network of the Province commenced in the early 1990s and made good progress
to date.
(d)   Because of the excessively high rate of traffic accidents on the JQE a highway
safety study was conducted in early 1997. This study was a substitute for a pilot
road safety study originally formulated for addressing the road safety concerns on
the national/provincial road network of the province. The study's
recommendations are being followed up by the agencies responsible for the
management and traffic safety aspects of the JQE.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
6.    Notwithstanding some of the deficiencies noted during the implementation of the
JQE, the two-year delay in project completion and the significantly higher-than-
envisaged overall cost, the project was completed satisfactorily. The ICR estimate of the



- vii -
ERR, although lower than that at appraisal, confirms that the project's development
objectives were also achieved. Furthermore, the condition of the JQE's civil works and
the benefits emanating from the investment are sustainable, and are not expected to be
exposed to future risks.
7.    The Jinan-Qingdao Expressway Management Bureau (JQEMB), which was set up
as the agency responsible for the administration of the JQE at the end of 1993, is
adequately staffed and has the material and financial resources to ensure the satisfactory
operation and maintenance of the Expressway. The relatively high rate of accidents
remains a major concern despite the measures being taken by JQEMB, jointly with the
Traffic Safety Unit of the Public Security Administration, to mitigate accident hazards as
a follow-up to the findings and recommendations of the traffic safety study completed in
May 1997.
8.    The following lessons learned are relevant to the still ongoing and future Bank
Group-financed highway projects:
9.    Project Preparation and Costing. The scope of the highway component of the
project lacked clear definition and consistency. Thus, the project highway was not built
according to a well-conceived and well-defined concept; it rather "evolved" into an
expressway facility in the course of implementation. As it happened, this deficiency has
not been detrimental to the viability of the JQE. The higher cost of the JQE was
compensated by higher-than-expected stream of benefits on account of the higher-than-
expected diversion of the corridor traffic to the JQE. Nevertheless, the deficiency of the
formulation of the project has been transparent enough to put it on record, even if there
were mitigating circumstances for it at the time of project formulation: (a) the Borrower
had no clear policy for the development of the strategic highway network for the country;
(b) constraints on the availability of counterpart funding for the project must have been
seen as a major risk; and (c) limited experience with the design and operation of the
electronic, electrical and mechanical works (traffic monitoring, telecommunications and
tolling) for tolled highways that could explain the initial omission of some highway-
related expenditure items from the project. Notwithstanding these considerations, it could
be argued that the Bank Group could have been more alert to the potential disadvantages
in proceeding with the financing of the Jinan-Qingdao Highway with a vague definition
of its scope and ultimate objectives.
10.   Highway Safety. The traffic safety record of recently completed Bank Group-
financed highways has been a major cause for concern. The high rates of accidents on
recently built expressways also bring into question the conventional notion that
expressways are safer than the arterial roads of the network. Although there is no
conclusive statistical evidence either way, the indications are that the Chinese drivers'
lack of experience in handling vehicles at high speeds, combined with the relatively poor
condition of the vehicle fleet, have been the major causes of the excessive rate of
accidents on high-standard highways. Since the road safety is a complex issue, which
extends well beyond engineering aspects, the ICR issued for the Jiangxi Provincial



- viii -
Highway Project already highlighted the importance of formulating a comprehensive road
safety strategy for China and recommended to the Bank Group to intensify its dialogue
with the Central Government on the issues involved. Well-documented evidence of the
safety record of the JQE adds further urgency to the earlier recommendation regarding
highway safety issues.
11.   Preparation and Execution of Electronic, Electrical and Mechanical (E&M)
Works for Expressways. The two-year delay of the completion of the project is partly
attributable to the fact that initially the project covered only the acquisition of equipment
associated with traffic monitoring, telecommunications and tolling but not its installation.
Although, the decision to include the full extent of the works in the project under Bank
Group financing was made soon after the commencement of civil works, the preparation
and processing of the E&M works proceeded very slowly. Since similar delays occurred
under other Bank Group-financed highway projects under implementation in the early
1990s, the Bank Group, in consultation with MOC, initiated steps that now ensure that
the design and technical specifications for E&M works are completed more or less at the
same time as the design and the technical specifications for the civil works contracts.



CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 3073-CHA/CREDIT 2025-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.    China joined the World Bank Group in 1980 and lending operations began soon
after. However, Bank Group involvement with highway infrastructure only began in
April 1983, with the identification of the first Highway Project (Loan 2539/Credit 1954-
CHA). The project provided funding for the improvement of provincial roads and the
construction of critical missing links in nine provinces, particularly those that constrained
interprovincial road transport. Although the involvement was limited, this initial step
helped familiarize the Bank Group with the highway subsector issues in China and to
identify subsectoral priorities in subsequent projects. It became apparent that the shortage
of capacity in heavily congested corridors of the national and provincial road networks
constitutes one of the major impediments to the development of the country's economy at
an accelerated rate. Under the Seventh Five-Year Plan (7FYP, 1986-90) and subsequent
five-year plans, measures were taken to address the needs for road transport capacity
improvements in the key corridors of the national and provincial road networks. The
Bank Group was supportive of such objectives of the Government as reflected in the
Bank Group's lending strategy for the development of the highway subsector in China.
From FY85 until the present, in addition to this project, the Bank Group approved the
financing of 17 highway projects as listed in Table 2, Part II, of this report. A PCR was
issued for the first Highway Project, and ICRs have been issued for the Shaanxi, Jiangxi
and Sichuan provincial highway projects, the Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway Project
and the Jiangsu Provincial Transport Project.
2.    The existing arterial roads between Jinan and Qingdao were of low capacity and
became heavily congested by the end of the 1980s. The project's primary objective
therefore was to provide a high-capacity, high-standard highway in this important
corridor between Jinan the capital of Shandong Province and Qingdao, one of the main
ports in China. The project also aimed to achieve the following policy and institutional
development objectives: (a) improving road planning techniques; (b) evaluating
pavement conditions on selected sections on the road network and preparing a pilot
pavement strengthening and maintenance management programs; (c) developing
institutional capacity for supervising road construction works; (d) carrying out staff
training; (e) strengthening highway research; and (f) improving road safety.



- 2 -
3.    Under the overall supervision of the Ministry of Communications (MOC) and the
Shandong Provincial Government the Shandong Provincial Transport Department
(SPTD) was designated as the executing agency for administering the preparation, design
and implementation of the project. The project comprised: (a) the construction of a
319 km four-lane divided highway between Jinan and Qingdao; (b) consulting services to
assist SPTD in construction supervision and help train SPTD staff in day-to-day
supervision and quality control functions; (c) acquisition of road condition survey
equipment, evaluation of existing road pavements and preparation of a pavement
strengthening and maintenance management pilot program for 560-km of the road
network; (d) acquisition of equipment for road maintenance, traffic monitoring,
telecommunications and tolling systems, and road research; (e) conducting training
courses for SPTD staff; and (f) improving road safety.
4.    The Bank Group approved the Bank loan and the IDA credit for the project in
May 1989. The scope of the project was in line with investment priorities for road
transport infrastructure improvement in Shandong Province, and was also consistent with
the Central Government's policy and the Bank Group's assistance strategy for the
development of the road transport subsector in China.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.    Project objectives were substantially achieved as indicated by the implementation
summaries of the various project components in the following.
Jinan-Qingdao Expressway (JQE)
6.    Preparation, Design and Scope. The preliminary engineering and the economic
feasibility study for the highway was completed in the latter part of 1986, and the study's
recommendations were endorsed in principle shortly thereafter by the Central
Government. A Bank Group contact mission visited Shandong Province in February
1987, following which the survey and design institutes of MOC, located in Xian and
Beijing, and the Shandong Provincial Highway Design Institute proceeded with the
preparation of the engineering design for the highway. Later on a local/foreign joint
venture of consultants helped finalize the design and the preparation of bidding
documents. These services were partially financed under the US Trade Development
Program.
7.    Originally, the highway was designed to Class I highway standards, although
already during the project appraisal SPTD expressed its preference to change the
geometric standards of the highway from Class I to expressway standards. Since the
highway's alignment traverses flat terrain throughout its length, the only major difference
in geometric parameters between the two alternatives was the formation width, which
was 23 m for Class I highways and 26 m for expressways (Table 1.4 of SAR). In October
1987, the Shandong Provincial Transport Department requested the Bank Group's
assessment regarding the economic viability of building the Jinan-Qingdao highway to
expressway standards. In December 1987, the Bank Group advised SPTD as well as the



-3 -
Central Government that, according to its analysis, the expressway design option with
26 m formation width yielded a higher "net present value", and that, the Bank Group, in
general, was supportive of the concepts of longer-term objectives, and had no objection to
building the new highway with a 26 m wide formation. Considering that the difference in
the economic viability of the alternatives were not significant, the Bank Group also
indicated that it was prepared to finance either alternative. However, SPTD failed to
obtain Central Government endorsement for the change, seemingly for budgetary reasons.
A likely other reason for the Central Government's position could have been that it had
no strategy at that time for the development of an interprovincial expressway network for
the country and its standards, and that had not crystallized until the early 1990s. China
now has a clear strategy and well defined design standards for its expressway network.
8.    As a compromise, shortly before negotiations an understanding was reached
between SPTD and the Bank Group, with the consent of the Central Government, that the
most heavily trafficked section between Jinan and Zibo (120.3 km), would be built with
26 m formation width, while on the other segments of the highway the formation would
remain 23 m wide. While this was a relatively slight change in scope, the partial
acceptance of expressway geometric standards was significant because it opened the door
for the broadening of the scope of the works, and during implementation additional
investments were made to ensure that by the time all works were completed, the
requirements for operating the new highway as a tolled expressway are fully met.
9.    Civil Works. The JQE is located more or less centrally between the northern and
southern arterial roads and carries motorized vehicles only. The two parallel arterial roads
in the corridor will continue to serve motorized and nonmotorized local traffic. In
addition to serving a densely populated rural corridor, JQE links four major cities-Jinan,
Zibo, Weifang and Qingdao-with a population of 3.4, 2.7, 7.8 and 6.2 million,
respectively. There are 21 interchanges to connect JQE to the corridor's arterial and
secondary road network. Civil works were executed under eight contracts, of which seven
contracts were awarded following ICB procedures and one contract award was made
following national bidding.
10.   Compared to similar major highway projects constructed under Bank Group
financing, such as the Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway, and those in Shaanxi, Jiangxi
and Sichuan provinces (Table 1 of Part II), there were relatively few major deviations
from the original engineering design. The major additional works and variations that have
occurred included: (a) the change of the type of material for backfilling of embankments
at structures to reduce the risk of excessive settlements; (b) adding retaining walls to
bridge approaches to reduce the extent of acquisition of valuable agricultural land; (c)
building one additional interchange in the vicinity of Shouguang township at
km 158+640 to provide for traffic to be generated by new residential and commercial
developments; and (d) providing guard rails on embankments exceeding 3 m in height,
rather than 4 m in height as originally envisaged. The major works executed to meet
expressway operational requirements, which were originally not covered by the scope of
the project, included (a) the construction of roadside facilities along the Expressway,



-4 -
comprising 21 toll stations, 7 service areas and 11 buildings for general and toll
administration and maintenance depots; and (b) erecting protective fencing along the
Expressway.
11.  Implementation and Supervision. The Expressway was substantially completed
and opened to traffic in December 1993. The execution of the works was not proceeding
without problems. Although the local contractors were prequalified, they lacked
experience in carrying out major highway works of comparable magnitude and
complexity, managerial skills and material and financial resources. As highlighted in the
quarterly progress reports and observed during Bank Group supervision missions, the
civil works were not carried out consistently according to the technical specifications.
The Bank Group's April 1993 supervision mission, for example, noted defective
workmanship and materials during the execution of several phases of the ongoing works
as well as the lack of adequate supervision. Consequent on such observations, an
understanding was reached with SPTD about the measures to be taken for improving the
quality of construction and the effectiveness of supervision operations. The Bank Group
also insisted that a foreign supervisor be mobilized, in addition to two site supervision
engineers already on site, to assist with the quality control in general and with the critical
phase of asphalt paving works in particular. The executing agency complied with the
Bank Group's requests and also assured the Bank Group that the contractors, as instructed
by the supervision units, had corrected and will be correcting deficient works to ensure
that the technical specifications are met.
12.   A foreign consulting firm, engaged to assist SPTD in construction supervision,
provided 124 person-months of services. A combined team of SPTD and foreign and
local engineers were responsible for on-site supervision and quality control, and ensuring
that works on the JQE were carried out in full compliance with the technical
specifications. The supervision organization set up for this purpose comprised a Central
Supervision Unit, headed by the Chief Supervision Engineer, and five Resident
Supervision Units located along the alignment of the Expressway. The foreign
engineering personnel helped establish the framework and procedures for the supervisory
work and trained the SPTD staff, local engineers and technicians. Such training was not
only a significant means of technology transfer but also an essential measure for trying to
ensure effective control of the quality of JQE construction with adequately trained
personnel. The performance of the supervision units was generally satisfactory, except for
periodic lapses, as highlighted in para. 11. Despite these difficulties, the intervention of
SPTD and the supervision units eventually ensured that the quality of construction met
the technical requirements. Overall, the effectiveness of supervision seems to be proven
by the relatively infrequent and only minor correcting works emerged following the
completion of JQE.
13.   Traffic Monitoring, Telecommunications and Tolling Systems [Electronics,
Electrical and Mechanical (E&M) Worksl. The original scope of the project covered
only partially the equipment requirements of the E&M works and did not include at all
the systems' software development and installation works. However, the Bank Group



-5 -
already in the early phase of the implementation agreed to utilize a portion of the
unallocated loan/credit proceeds for financing a supply and installation contract to
undertake the entire E&M works. Because SPTD primarily focused on the timely
completion of JQE's civil works and it lacked experience with the type of E&M works
required for expressway operations, the formulation and design of this component was
delayed. The bidding documents were issued only in March 1995, and further delays
were encountered during ICB procurement, bid evaluation and clearance of the contract
award processes at provincial and national levels as well as in the Bank Group.
Consequently, the for E&M works supply and installation contract was awarded only in
May 1996. Moreover, there were delays in establishing the letter of credit for this
contract. The contractor's mobilization of sufficient manpower and other resources
proceeded slowly, and the installations of the systems suffered further delays. Thus, the
commissioning of systems was completed only at the end of June 1997 and trial
operations commenced in July 1997. Fortunately, the delays had no substantive adverse
effect on the operation of the JQE. Traffic has been using the Expressway since
December 1993, and tolls were collected since then using temporary toll collection
facilities. The supervision of the E&M works was carried out satisfactorily by a group of
local experts specially selected for the task from various institutions. The personnel and
the scope of sevices of the group was approved by the Bank Group.
14.  Improving Road Safety. Road accident statistics for the Province, which was
reviewed during project preparation revealed that road safety concerns warranted urgent
attention. It was therefore agreed at negotiations that a Road Safety Program will be
carried out under the project. The scope of the Program was designed to be in line with
the recommendations of the China Road Safety Project, which was financed under the
first Highway Project (Loan 2539-CHA/Credit 1594-CHA), and the experience gained
from the Sichuan Road Safety Pilot Program, executed by the Highway Scientific
Research Institute (HSRI) of MOC with the assistance of foreign experts during 1987.
The objective of the Shandong Road Safety Program was to collect and analyze traffic
accident data on two major provincial roads (200 km in total length), which would have
helped identify high frequency accident locations (black spots). Such data would have led
to the implementation of safety measures for reducing the number of traffic accidents
(Annex 3 of the SAR). This pilot exercise for identifying road safety measures was to be
eventually extended to cover the more heavily trafficked segments of the national and
provincial road network of the Province. However, SPTD had encountered administrative
difficulties in the execution of this project component since in the late 1980s the Central
Government decided to transfer the responsibility for traffic safety, including accident
data collection and decisions on improvement measures for accident reductions, from the
Provincial Transport departments to the Public Securities departments nationwide.
Initially, SPTD requested the Bank Group's concurrence to the deletion of this project
component. However, soon after the JQE was opened to traffic, there was a rapid buildup
of an alarmingly high number of accidents. Thus the Bank Group agreed to SPTD's
request that a comprehensive assessment should be made of the prime reasons for the
high accident rates on the JQE instead of the original pilot road safety program. During



- 6 -
1994-97, the average annual number of accidents was about 1,000, resulting in 300
injuries and 100 fatalities.
15.   With the support of SPTD, reputable international road safety experts carried out,
according to terms of reference approved by the Bank, a 45-day investigation during
February and March 1997. The experts' June 1997 report details the findings of the study
and also outlines a 13-point action plan for accident reduction measures. The report
identified poor driver behavior and excessive speed as the major causes of accidents. This
is also reflected in the high proportion (49 percent) of single-vehicle accidents of which
many resulted in fatalities. In addition to the drivers' lack of experience in traveling on
high-speed highways, overloaded vehicles and vehicle defects, narrow shoulders on the
23 m wide sections of the JQE, poor geometry of exit and entry points at interchanges,
and lack of safety provisions for maintenance crews were also substantive contributing
factors to the poor safety record of the JQE. The implementation of the recommended
safety plan for the JQE will require the coordinated effort of JQEMB and the Traffic
Police Unit of the Public Security Department. As a first step, JQEMB proceeded with
the acquisition of traffic safety-related goods and equipment, including computer
hardware and software, warning signals for vehicles, beacon lights, and reflective
clothing for expressway maintenance crews. Some of these equipment were financed
under the project.
16.   Land Acquisition and Resettlement. The cost of land acquisition and
resettlement related costs increased from Y 37.06 million to Y 262.00 million. The
expenses covered the removal and relocation of communication and electricity cables,
intersecting and service roads, drainage and irrigation systems, dwellings and other
buildings, and compensation payments for land and resettlement. Additional works were
required and higher cost incurred in infrastructure relocation and rehabilitation than
originally expected. Higher cost was also incurred at an archeological site to ensure the
adequacy of protection. The substantial difference between the estimated cost and
eventual expenditure can also be explained by the difficulties in making realistic cost
estimates during project preparation of a massive program involving the acquisition of
about 6,600 acres of land and relocation of about 30,000 individuals without prior
experience in carrying out a program of similar magnitude and complexity. Moreover,
because of the substantial interval between the time when the original estimates were
made and the time of compensation payments, inflation and property value appreciation
had a major impact on the final cost. As confirmed by the Bank Group's
November/December 1994 Resettlement Review Mission, the land acquisition,
resettlement and compensation procedures agreed at negotiations were substantially
followed.
17.   Environmental Protection. Since the JQE traverses flat terrain, the construction
of the JQE was expected to have only very limited adverse impact on the environment.
The engineering design and technical specifications provided specific treatments for the
protection of embankment slopes and roadside drainage, which were applied during
implementation. During the construction of the JQE, no adverse environmental problem



-7 -
emerged. Some erosion or slope failure could occur on the higher embankment section of
the JQE, with a risk of temporary disruption and potential pollution to irrigation channels.
However, JQEMB would be well equipped to handle such emergencies promptly and
efficiently. Also, it is plausible to assume that there has been a reduction of noise and air
pollution in towns and villages along the arterial roads because of the diversion of traffic
to the JQE from the parallel arterial roads.
18.  Investment Costs. In the SAR the civil works construction cost of the highway
was estimated at Y 1,603.24 million, including physical and price contingencies. A
comparable final cost of JQE's civil works was Y 1,975.94 million, representing a cost
increase of Y 372.70 million, about 23 percent, in current prices. Of this amount, about
40 percent was related to greater-than-expected physical quantities and extra works
carried out under variation orders, and the remaining amount was paid to the contractors
as compensation for price escalation. Other major Expressway-related expenditures
included (a) supply and installation of equipment for E&M works. (Y 125.34 million); (b)
consultant services for construction supervision (Y 40.50 million); (c) construction of
facilities along the Expressway, such as service areas, administration buildings and
maintenance depots (Y 203.50 million); (d) acquisition of equipment for the maintenance
of the Expressway (Y 51.13 million); (e) land acquisition and resettlement (Y 262.0
million.); (f) design and survey (Y 30.92 million); (g) administrative overhead (Y 52.02
million); and (h) foreign exchange adjustment cost (Y 99.26 million). Including the
above, and some other minor cost items, the final investment cost of the JQE in current
prices became Y 2,850.39 million, as detailed in Table 2A of Annex 1. This cost is not
directly comparable to the about Y 1,700.00 million investment cost for the highway
presented in the SAR because the substantial expansion of the scope of the highway
works to meet expressway operational requirements were not contemplated at the time of
project appraisal.
19.   Economic Evaluation. The ICR economic analysis is presented in Annex 1. The
ERR on the JQE investment is estimated at 19.1 percent versus the SAR estimate of 23.0
percent. The reestimation of the ERR was based on the JQE's final investment cost,
converted to economic cost at 1997 prices. The ICR analysis of ERR also included
revised indices for shadow pricing, actual corridor traffic data on the JQE reflecting the
split of traffic between the two parallel arterial roads and JQE during 1994-97, revised
traffic forecast during 1998-2015, and updated vehicle operation costs (VOCs). The
relatively small difference between the SAR and ICR estimates for ERR is the combined
effect of the higher cost being well compensated by the higher benefits accruing from the
greater-than-expected buildup of JQE traffic during the last four years, and the
expectation that a similar trend will continue during 1998-2015. The key conclusion of
the economic evaluation are:
(a)   The economic cost of Y 4,229.90 million arrived at in the ICR calculation is about
67.9 percent higher than the Y 2,520.00 million presented in the SAR, based on
December 1997 constant prices.



-8 -
(b)   The 1997 average daily traffic (ADT) in the corridor of the Expressway differed
only marginally from that forecast in the SAR. However, the split of traffic
between the two arterial roads located on the northern and southern side of the
JQE and on the JQE was somewhat different from that expected at appraisal. The
rate of diversion of traffic on Section I of the Expressway (Qingdao-Weifang)
was about 55 percent higher than forecast. On Section 2 (Weifang-Zibo) it was
about 8 percent higher, while on Section 3 (Zibo-Jinan) the difference was
insignificant.
(c)   The 1997 daily traffic on Sections 1 and 3 well exceeded SAR forecast but fell
below somewhat of the forecast level on Section 2. However, the net result was
that the 1997 ADT traffic on the JQE, in terms of the weighted average daily
traffic per kilometer on the three sections of the JQE, was 390,000 vehicle-
kilometer (vkm)/day higher than the SAR forecast, a difference of about 12
percent. Such increase represents a substantially higher level of VOC savings for
1997 than assumed during project appraisal.
(d)   Higher VOCs and associated benefits are expected to be sustainable in the future,
even with somewhat lower annual traffic growth rates than presented in the SAR
(para. 8 of Annex 1).
20.   Financial Evaluation. The toll revenue is the only source of income from the
JQE. The toll charges were changed once (in July 1995) since the opening of JQE to
traffic in December 1993 and are still in force. The revenues increased by an average of
38.3 percent a year during the first three years of operation (1994-96). The financial cost
of Y 3,063.65 million included the investment cost of Y 2,850.38 million for the JQE, as
well as Y 212.97 million, representing loan/credit servicing cost, taxes and the cost of
minor project components (Table 2A of Annex 1). The estimated financial rate of return
(FRR) against the financial costs is 8.8 percent. The revenue stream generated is expected
to cover future operating and maintenance costs of the JQE and also meet still
outstanding financial obligations on borrowings. The detailed financial analysis is
presented in Table 6 of Annex 1.
21.   Tolling. The expressway is operated as a closed toll system with 21 toll stations.
The toll rates are determined according to the types of vehicle and distance traveled. As
stipulated in Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement, the toll rates charged should not
exceed 30 percent of the VOC savings for the various groups of vehicles. On average, the
toll rates for large-size vehicles are comparable to, and on medium-size vehicles, tractor-
trailers, are only slightly higher than 30 percent of the VOC savings. However, the toll
rates for small-size vehicles well exceed 30 percent of the VOC savings. The sections of
the JQE on which the travel distance is significantly shorter than on the parallel arterial
roads, the 30 percent of VOC savings are close or even higher than the toll rates. This
could indicate that toll rates higher than 30 percent of VOC savings are not necessarily a
deterrent to road users, if it results from substantial distance and time savings. The
economic and financial VOCs and 30 percent of the VOC savings, as of 1997, are



- 9-
presented in Table 7 of Annex 1. The outcome of the analysis is approximate and
indicative only. A comprehensive origin and destination survey-based study of the JQE
traffic would be required for reaching more reliable conclusions regarding the
relationship between toll charges and VOC savings. Obviously, this could not be done
within the scope of this ICR.
Equipment Procurement
22.   The following groups of equipment were to be purchased under the project at an
estimated cost of $13.20 million, including physical and price contingencies: (a)
maintenance equipment, including five types, 25 units for $4.00 million; (b) instruments
and equipment for the road condition survey program, three types and four units for $0.25
million; (c) research equipment for central road laboratory, three types, 19 units for $0.80
million; and (d) equipment for traffic monitoring, telecommunications and tolling for
$8.15 million.
23.   The maintenance equipment acquired under item (a) exceeded the original
estimate in terms of types, number of units and cost. SPTD had requested and the Bank
Group agreed to the procurement of additional equipment and altogether 18 types, 28
units were acquired for $6.16 million. The about 50 percent increase in investment for
highway maintenance equipment was well justified, considering the close to 320 km
length of the JQE and SPTD's complete lack of modern maintenance equipment for high-
class highways. The additional cost was covered from the unallocated contingency
category of the loan proceeds.
24.   The acquisition cost of instruments and equipment for road condition survey and
Road Data Bank (RDB), item (b) above, as well as instruments and equipment for the
road laboratory, item (c) above, were within the budget allocated for these purposes. The
actual expenditures were $0.18 million and $0.49 million, respectively. However, the list
of items purchased differed somewhat from those listed in Tables 3.1 and 3.4 in the SAR
based on a further review of requirements during project implementation.
25.   As elaborated in para. 13, traffic monitoring, telecommunications and tolling
systems for the JQE were provided through a supply and install contract, and equipment
related to this component of the project was not procured separately.
26.   The road safety measure-related equipment acquisition was an addition to the
project, at a cost of $17,000, including computer hardware and software, warning signals
for vehicles, beacon lights and reflective clothing for expressway maintenance crews.
Staff Training
27.   Training of SPTD Staff. The training program implemented comprised training
courses and study tours conducted in several European countries, the United States,
Canada and Thailand. The training courses, under 15 separately organized programs,
covered the following topics: highway planning and design, highway and bridge



- 10-
construction, project, pavement, equipment, highway maintenance and financial
management, expressway operations including tolling and overall highway
administration, and RDB and Pavement Management System (PMS) programs and
applications. Most of the training courses were prepared and administered under an
MOC-coordinated program, involving the staff of several other provincial transport
departments, which were executing agencies of simultaneously ongoing Bank Group-
financed highway projects with staff training components. The training program
commenced in July 1991 and was completed during the first half of 1997.
28.   A total of 89 persons participated in the program, involving about 112 person-
months, at an overall cost of $920,000, i.e. about $8,200/person-month. The program as
envisaged would have included the training of 37 persons involving 150 person-months
at an estimated cost of $900,000, corresponding to $6,000/person-month. The training
program as executed involved more than twice as many trainees but with shorter periods
of training. This resulted in higher overall costs of travel and accommodation, which, in
addition to inflation, could explain the higher-than-expected per person-month cost of
training. The person-months cost of training is similar to those incurred under other
recently completed Bank Group-financed highway projects in China.
Pavement Evaluation, Road Data Bank and Pavement Management System
29.   Originally, the road pavement evaluation component of the project was to be
carried out by SPTD with the assistance of consultants financed from the proceeds of the
Bank Group loan/credit in accordance with the terms of reference presented in Annex 2
of the SAR. However, shortly before the conclusion of the loan/credit negotiations, an
agreement was reached between the Chinese and Finnish governments that this project
component will be undertaken by SPTD with the assistance of a Finnish technical team
under bilateral aid. Thus, SPTD and a team from the Finnish National Road
Administration proceeded with a pilot study during March 1989 and June 1990 to
evaluate existing pavement conditions of road segments totaling 560 km in the Jining
District of the Province. The report of the study was completed in April 1991. The pilot
study identified equipment, materials and manpower resources required for road
condition survey, prepared programs for pavement strengthening and maintenance
management for the pilot district. The comprehensive computerized system established
was suitable for determining investment priorities for the paved roads, and also laid the
groundwork for the development of a program for paved road strengthening and
maintenance management for Shandong Province.
30.   The system developed under the pilot study was functional and quite suitable for
applying it to the main paved network of the Province. However, it was decided to bring
the system developed under the pilot program in line with the nationwide programs,
which evolved in the interim based on the Chinese RDB and PMS. In the early 1990s
good progress was made on the development and pilot application of both programs by
the Highway Planning and Design Institute (HPDI) and the Highway Scientific Research
Institute (HSRI), respectively, under the guidance and coordination of MOC. The



merging of the Jining District pilot program and the nationwide programs took place
during 1991-93. Thereafter, the RDB has been built up gradually for the core 17, 000 km
national and provincial network, and the PMS has been introduced in all 17
prefectures/municipalities of the Province.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
31.   Although the overall completion of the project was delayed by about two years,
its main objective, i.e., to relieve traffic congestion in the Jinan-Qingdao corridor, was
achieved with the opening of the JQE to traffic at the end of 1993 as planned. The two-
year project completion delay was predominantly due to the delay in the preparation,
procurement and implementation of the E&M works. However, it was possible to
commence toll collection through taking temporary measures; thus, cost recovery
suffered no delays.
32.   Delays in the implementation of E&M works occurred for a number of reasons. It
seems that at the time of project preparation there was no firm timetable for operating the
Jinan-Qingdao Highway as a tolled facility. Such uncertainty is reflected in the scope of
works presented in the SAR, which did not cover the installation component of E&M
works, the construction of roadside facilities and fencing of the highway's right-of-way,
provisions that are normally required for the efficient operation of a tolled expressway.
One of the reasons for the somewhat vague definition of the scope of the Expressway
works could have been the absence of the Central Government's firm policies on tolled
expressways in the early 1990s. During implementation, at SPTD's request, the Bank
Group agreed to the financing of the foreign exchange components of a supply and
installation contract for the E&M works from the uncommitted balance of the loan/credit
proceeds. However, with the limited experience in China in the planning, design and
procurement of this type of works, the delays that occurred are understandable. Some
further delay occurred also during the execution of the contract.
33.   The additional investments for providing roadside facilities, covering the
construction of buildings for general and toll administration and maintenance depots, and
fencing of the JQE's right-of-way to ensure that motorized vehicle entry to and exit from
the JQE can take place only at interchanges, and to keep away pedestrians, tractors,
animal-drawn vehicles from the Expressway, were made by the Province under local
financing, following consultation with the Bank Group.
34.   Despite the limited experience of the civil works contractors in similar large-scale
highway works, the periodic lapses in performance and lack of consistency and
effectiveness of quality control by the supervision units the JQE was completed
satisfactorily. This is substantiated by the fact that no substantive technical deficiency
surfaced during the almost four-year operation of the JQE. However, the very high level
of accidents remains a major concern, although with the execution of the safety program
recommended by the recent safety study there is a good chance that the safety record of
the JQE would improve over time.



- 12-
35.   The timing of the completion of the relatively minor components of the project
shifted also because of the lower priority accorded these components after realizing that
an overall delay of about two years could no longer be avoided on account of the delay to
the E&M works. Thus, equipment acquisition and some of the training prograrn were
finalized only during the first half of 1997. Regarding the acquisition of maintenance
equipment for the JQE, delays were encountered during the preparation of bidding
documents by designated procurement agencies and internal clearance processes, which
required the submission of documentation for all imported equipment to a designated
State agency.
36.   The objectives of the pilot program for pavement evaluation and the development
of a methodology for the preparation of road investment and maintenance programs were
achieved, and its extension to the 17,000 km core arterial road network of the Province
proceeded well. Such progress was supported by the development of the RDB and PMS
programs nationwide under the Central Government's initiative and coordination and
their introduction to all prefectures and municipalities of the Province. The SAR did not
stipulate any particular timetable for such expansions of the programs but the advances
made to date by the Province in this respect are commendable.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
37.   The physical condition of the JQE has shown no signs of adverse deterioration
since it has been in service. The increase in corridor traffic is expected to continue in line
with the trend of the economic development in the influence area of the JQE, and the
Expressway's share of traffic is expected to remain significant. Thus, there is no
discernible risk to the steady growth in toll revenues, which should be adequate for
funding the administrative and maintenance expenses of the JQE, the servicing of debt
and the repayment of the loan and credit as scheduled.
38.   The maintenance equipment fleet acquired under the project should provide
adequate long-term service, since operators have been trained, sufficient stock of essential
spares have been purchased and maintenance facilities have been provided.
39.   The information from the staff training program is expected to be disseminated
within the provincial institutions involved, reach the majority of SPTD personnel and
have a long-term influence on provincial road administration and management methods
and highway-specific technology.
40.   The methodology of the pavement evaluation pilot study and application of the
Chinese RDB and PMS programs have been deployed in all prefectures and
municipalities of the Province. It is expected that, with the regularly collected input data,
the system will provide the necessary output information to help make improved
investment decisions for road improvement and maintenance as part of the budgetary
process.



- 13 -
E. BANK GROUP PERFORMANCE
41.   The scope of the project, in general, was in line with the sectoral investment
priorities and the development objectives of the Province and the Central Government
and with the Bank Group's assistance strategy for China in the late 1980s. However, the
formulation of the project lacked clarity regarding the requirements for the construction
of a new highway in the Jinan-Qingdao corridor. The Province was in favor of adopting
an expressway design standards for the new highway from the beginning; however,
during the project's preparation the Central Government was unwilling to endorse the
Province's request, seemingly for budgetary reasons, and Class I highway design
standards were adopted for the new highway over most of its length (para. 7 and 8).
During implementation, the scope of the Jinan-Qingdao Highway was expanded into a
full-fledged tolled expressway, except that the formation width remained 3 m narrower
over a 200 km section of the highway. It could be argued whether the Bank Group should
have had the foresight and firmness to formulate the highway component of the project
fully meeting expressway requirements from the beginning.
42.   A comparative economic evaluation for the highway design standard alternatives
was not carried out as part of the ICR evaluation. However, the traffic safety study (para.
15) identified the narrower shoulders and central medians as safety risk features with very
limited recourse for corrective measures. Since the width of the pavements are the same
for both a Class I highway and an expressway design alternative, the 3 m reduction in the
formation width required the narrowing of shoulders and central median. The other
negative aspect of the lack of clarity concerning the exact nature of the specifications for
the new highway was that substantive additional investments had to be made during
implementation, as detailed in para. 10, to achieve the requirements for operating the new
highway as a tolled expressway.
43.   Despite these negative aspects of the piecemeal adjustments made to the scope of
the JQE during its construction, it would be farfetched to level the blame on the Bank
Group for the way the highway was formulated. It should be recognized that the
development of the strategic interprovincial expressway system at the end of the 1980s
and the beginning of the 1990s was in a transitional phase. The Bank Group would not
have been prudent to insist on a higher-level investment in this project against the firm
views of the Central Government. Furthermore, the economic evaluation methodologies
were not sufficiently refined to draw firm conclusions from minor geometrical differences
on the overriding merits between the alternatives. As it happened, other than the safety
aspect referred to in para. 15, no adverse impact has been noticed regarding the operation
of the JQE as an effect of the manner the JQE was implemented.
44.   The Bank Group mounted 10 supervision missions during 1990-97, which is on
average just slightly more than one mission per year. On other Bank Group-financed
highway projects that were implemented more or less simultaneously with the Shandong
Provincial Highway Project, the frequency of supervision missions was closer to two per
year. A plausible explanation for this is that considering staff resource constraints and the



-14-
fact that most of the other ongoing highway projects encountered greater implementation
difficulties than this project, there was no major risk involved by lowering the frequency
of missions. Furthermore, SPTD gained experience during the execution of the Shandong
provincial road component of the first Highway Project, and the advantage of such
experience was well manifested in SPTD's ability to handle the execution of the project
without major risk and difficulty. Thus, the Bank Group's involvement in the
implementation of the project was adequate and commensurate with the level of local
experience and complexity of the project.
45.   The Bank Group has shown flexibility in dealing with the changes in the project's
scope, such as the financing of one additional interchange, the supply and installation
contract for E&M works and not just the equipment acquisition as originally planned, and
a safety study for the JQE instead of a pilot safety study for the provincial road network.
Also, in response to the Borrower's request to extend the closing date by one year, the
Bank Group concluded that a two-year extension was more realistic for completing the
still outstanding works. During this period SPTD also proceeded with the extension of the
scope of the JQE by providing administrative and maintenance facilities along the JQE
and fencing the right-of-way of the JQE. The Bank Group had no objection to carrying
out these works as part of the project, although these works had to be financed entirely by
the Province since the loan and credit funds had already been fully committed.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
46.   SPTD  under the first Highway Project was exposed to implementation
management practices normally associated with Bank Group-financed projects. The
benefit of that experience was apparent during the preparation and administration of the
project. Moreover, SPTD has had a reputation as one of the most experienced road
administrations in China with a well-constructed and well-maintained road network. The
Borrower and SPTD have complied substantially with the conditionalities of the loan,
credit and project agreements. The Bank Group's procedural requirements were
substantially followed, although there were gaps and delays in SPTD meeting progress
reporting requirements. The cooperation between the Borrower, the Executing Agency
and the Bank Group was cordial and professional throughout the preparation, appraisal
and implementation of the project.
47.   SPTD can take credit for the substantial completion of the JQE's civil works as
scheduled. As indicated in the preceding, the experience of civil works contractors in the
implementation of highway works to international specifications was limited. However,
despite the problems encountered by the contractors from time to time on account of a
shortage of material supplies, lack of financial resources and contract administration
skills, SPTD was able to help overcome such difficulties with its managerial and
technical experience and the support of the supervision units.
48.   Since the experience with the supply and installation of traffic monitoring,
telecommunications and tolling systems in China was very limited in the early 1 990s, it is



- 15 -
understandable that SPTD had problems in defining the scope of the required E&M
works for the JQE. Delays occurred not only in the preparation but also in the
procurement and execution of the works. The process for obtaining internal clearances for
the bidding documents was also much slower than expected due to the cumbersome
internal clearance process of equipment procurement involving some departments of the
Central Government.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
49.   The project was implemented satisfactorily and its objectives have been
substantially achieved. The main component of the project, the construction of the JQE,
was completed and opened to traffic at the end of December 1993, as scheduled. The
development objectives of the project have also been achieved and the economic
reevaluation presented in this report confirmed that the investment in the JQE was
economically viable, with a slightly lower estimate for the ERR than that of the SAR.
Furthermore, the economic benefits are considered to be sustainable without any
predictable elements of risk. Because of the favorable prospect for continued strong
economic activity in the influence area of the JQE, the road user benefits as well as toll
revenues are expected to increase proportionally with the rate of traffic growth.
50.   Overall, the contractors' performance was adequate despite periodic lapses in the
quality of works and recurrent problems with material and financial resources. The
executing agency's prior experience in the administration of Bank Group-financed road
works, combined with technical and administrative competence, was a major attribute to
the satisfactory outcome of the project. The supervision units also performed
satisfactorily, despite periodic lapses in their perseverance and effectiveness in
controlling quality.
51.   The level of impact of technology transfer through training is not easy to measure
due to a lack of well-defined baseline parameters. Nonetheless, the training courses and
study tours were a useful means of technology transfer and provided a satisfactory level
of exposure to new concepts and incentives for adoption in the Chinese environment.
Similarly, technology transfer through modern equipment for the operation and
maintenance of the JQE should achieve its objectives and ensure that the JQE will be
efficiently operated and adequately maintained.
52.   The pilot pavement evaluation study was implemented satisfactorily. The local
personnel participating in the pilot program gained valuable experience in the various
aspects of the system's development. The progress on sectoral development in the context
of the expansion of RDB and PMS programs for the core arterial road network of the
Province has been also good. This was achieved through the adoption of the Chinese
RDB and PMS programs, which were developed for nationwide applications and required
some adjustment to the system evolved from the Jining District pilot study. At present,
the RDB and PMS programs are operational in all 17 prefectures/municipalities of the
Province and cover the primary paved network of 17,000 km.



- 16-
53.   Overall, the project was implemented within the terms of the development credit
and loan agreements, and in substantial compliance with the Bank Group's procedural
requirements. The credit and loan proceeds were not extended to any component of the
project without obtaining prior clearance from the Bank Group.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
54.   Since the end of 1993 the operation and maintenance of the JQE, has been the
responsibility of JQEMB. As demonstrated over the last four years, JQEMB is a well-
organized and technically competent institution to have such responsibility. The
operational and financial parameters of the JQE, such as traffic volume, tolling revenues,
traffic accident records, annual maintenance fees and administrative overhead
expenditures will be monitored routinely, and the performance of the JQE will be
periodically reassessed in terms of ERR and FRR. JQEMB is in the process of
consolidating administrative and operational rules and regulations in staff manual
formats.
55.   SPTD will continue to make improvement to the RDB and PMS programs. A new
version of the computer model for PMS should be operational by the end of 1998. Having
the RDB and PMS programs in place, the appropriate application of these programs
should help optimize the benefits from road improvement and maintenance investments.
56.   There could be a major change in the ownership and management of the JQE if
Shandong Province succeeds in selling a portion (60 percent) of the JQE to a Hong Kong-
based financial institution. The remaining portion of the assets of the Expressway would
be administered by a stock holding company to be established, and the shares of the
company would be listed on one of the Chinese stock exchanges. The JQE was valued at
Y 5.2 billion in early 1997. The Bank Group has informed the Province and the Central
Govermment about its no-objection to such transformation of ownership for the JQE in
principle, subject to receiving specific documentation on the terms of the transactions and
regulations involved, as required by the Bank Group.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
57.   Project Preparation and Costing. The scope of the highway component of the
project lacked clear definition and consistency. Thus, the project highway was not built
according to a well-conceived and well-defined concept; it rather "evolved" into an
expressway facility in the course of implementation. As it happened, this deficiency has
not been detrimental to the viability of the JQE. The higher cost of the JQE was
compensated for by higher-than-expected stream of benefits on account of the higher-
than-expected diversion of corridor traffic to the JQE. Nevertheless, the deficiency of the
formulation of the project has been transparent enough to put it on record, even if there
were mitigating circumstances for it at the time of project formulation: (a) the Borrower
had no clear policy for the development of a strategic highway network for the country;
and (b) constraints on the availability of counterpart fumding for the project must have
been seen as a major risk; and (c) limited experience with the design and operation of



- 17-
electronic, electrical and mechanical works (traffic monitoring, telecommunications and
tolling) which could explain the initial omission of some highway-related expenditure
items from the project. Notwithstanding these considerations, it could be argued that the
Bank Group could have been more alert to the potential disadvantages in proceeding with
the financing of the Jinan-Qingdao highway with a vague definition of its scope and
ultimate objectives.
58.   Highway Safety. The traffic safety record of recently completed Bank Group-
financed highways has been a major cause for concern. The high rates of accidents on
recently built expressways also bring into question the conventional notion that
expressways are safer than arterial roads of the network. Although there is no conclusive
statistical evidence either way, the indications are that the Chinese drivers' lack of
experience in handling vehicles at high speeds, combined with the relatively poor
condition of the vehicle fleet, have been the major causes of the excessive rate of
accidents on high standard highways. Since road safety is a complex issue, which extends
well beyond engineering aspects, the ICR issued for the Jiangxi Provincial Highway
Project already highlighted the importance of formulating a comprehensive road safety
strategy for China and recommended to the Bank Group to intensify its dialogue with the
Central Government on the issues involved. Well-documented evidence of the safety
record of the JQE adds further urgency to the earlier recommendations regarding highway
safety issues.
59.   Preparation and Execution of E&M Works for Expressways. The two-year
delay of the completion of the project is partly attributable to the fact that initially the
project covered only the acquisition of equipment associated with traffic monitoring,
telecommunications and tolling, but not its installation. Although, the decision to include
the full extent of the works in the project under Bank Group financing was made soon
after the commencement of civil works, the preparation and processing of the E&M
works proceeded very slowly. Since similar delays occurred under other Bank Group-
financed highway projects under implementation in the early 1990s, the Bank Group, in
consultation with MOC, initiated steps that now ensure the design and technical
specifications for E&M works are completed more or less at the same time as the design
and the technical specifications for the civil works contracts.



- 18-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial     Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                               x
Sector policies                                        X
Financial objectives (cost recovery)     X
Institutional development                              X
Physical objectives                      X
Poverty reduction                                                                    X
Gender issues                                                                        X
Other social objectives                                                              X
Environmental objectives                 X
Public sector management                               X
Private sector development                                                           X
B. Project Sustainability                 Likely             Unlikely            Uncertain
x
C. Bank Group Performance             Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                                                      x
Preparation assistance                                              X
Appraisal                                                           X
Supervision                                                        X
D. Borrower Performance                Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                                         X
Implementation                                                      X
Covenant compliance                                                 X
Operation (if applicable)                                           X
E. Assessment of Outcome        Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory       Highly
Satisfactory                                      Unsatisfactory
x



- 19 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK GROUP LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/credit title                                      Purpose            approval       Status
Highway Project                                 Provincial road network    FY85        completed
Ln.2539-CHA/Cr. I 954-CHA                       expansion/ improvement
Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway Project           see footnote La        FY87        completed
Ln.281 I-CHA/ Cr. 1792-CHA
Sichuan Provincial Highway Project                  see footnote La        FY88        completed
Ln.295 I -CHA/ Cr. 1917-CHA
Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project                  see footnote La        FY88        completed
Ln.2592-CHA
Jiangxi Provincial Highway Project                  see footnote La        FY89        completed
Cr. 1984-CHA
Jiangsu Provincial Transport Project                see footnote La        FY91        completed
Ln.3316-CHA/Cr.2226-CHA
Zhejiang Provincial Highway Project                 see footnote La        FY92         ongoing
Ln.3471-CHA
Henan Provincial Highway Project                    see footnote /a        FY93         ongoing
Ln.3531-CHA
Guangdong Provincial Highway Project                see footnote La        FY93         ongoing
Ln.3530-CHA
Fujian Provincial Highway Project                   see footnote La        FY94         ongoing
Ln.3681 -CHA
Hebei/Henan National Highway Project                see footnote La        FY94         ongoing
Ln.3748-CHA
Xinjiang Highway Project I                          see footnote La        FY95         ongoing
Ln.3787-CHA
Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway Project                   see footnote La        FY96         ongoing
Ln.3929-CHA
Second Shaanxi provincial Highway Project           see footnote /a        FY96         ongoing
Ln.3986-CHA
Second Henan Provincial Highway Project             see footnote La        FY96         ongoing
Ln.4027-CHA
Second Xinjiang Highway Project                     see footnote La        FY97         ongoing
Ln.4099-CHA
Second National Highway Project                     see footnote La        FY97         ongoing
Ln.4124-CHA
/a  These highway projects, typically, have had the following components: (i) construction of a major highway; (i)
improvement of provincial roads; (iii) procurement of road maintenance equipment; and (iv) institutional
development components, such as RDB and PMS programs, staff training and selected subsector-oriented studies.



- 20 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                                  Date planned             Date actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                 08/87                    08/87
Preparation                                                10/87                    04/88
Appraisal                                                  01/88                    07/88
Negotiations                                               04/88                    04/89
Board presentation                                         06/88                    05/89
Signing                                                    09/89                    09/89
Effectiveness                                              12/89                    12/89
Project completion                                         12/94                    06/97
Loan closing                                               06/95                    06/97
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL
(US$ million)
FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93 FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98
Appraisal estimate              11.00  22.00  48.40  77.00 101.20 110.00
Actual                           7.00   18.05  46.29  74.03  87.76  89.95  94.00 105.73  110.00
Actual as % of adjusted estimate   64.0   82.0   95.0   96.0   86.0   82.0   85.5   96.1  100.00
Date of final disbursement    July 24, 1997



-21 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Estimated LZ                  Actual
Key implementation indicators in SAR       Start    Complete          Start     Complete
1. Highway Construction                      04/89       06/94           06/90       12/93
2. Equipment for Pavement Evaluation          06/89      04/90           01/92       02/93
3. Equipment for Road Maintenance             09/91       10/92          07/95       06/97
4. Equipment for Traffic Monitoring           05/93       05/93          06/96       06/97
5. Road Data Bank                             12/90       12/94          02/96       06/97
6. Consulting Services                        08/89       12/94          07/90       12/93
7. Staff Training Lb                          06/89       12/92          07/90       07/97
8. Road Safety                                NA          NA             02/97       06/97
La Pages 73-74 of the Staff Appraisal Report.
Lb  Most of the staff training program was completed by the end of 1996.
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
Length (Iam)             Traffic (1997 ADT)
Estimated    Actual         Estimated      Actual
Highway Construction
Qingdao-Weifeng                         100.00       100.00          7,541         10,763
Weifeng-Zibo                             98.00        98.00         11,946         10,609
Zibo-Jinan                              121.00       120.30         10,680         12,317
Total                               319.00       318.30
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study         Purpose as defined at Appraisal/Redefined    Status   Impact of Study
Pavement Management  SPTD proposed to evaluate the condition  Completed  Implemented in all 17 prefec-
and Strengthening Study of the paved roads in order to prepare a      tures and covers full length of
strengthening program and to review the         the 17,000 km paved road
organizational and operational aspects of       network.
paved roads maintenance to bring them up
to date.



- 22 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
(Y million)
Appraisal estimate            Actual/atest estimate
Item                                  Local   Foreign    Total      Local   Foreign      Total
Jinan-Qingdao highway                 563.28  585.89   1,149.17    1383.16    592.78   1,975.94
Consultant services for supervision    20.00    4.80    24.80       26.80     13.70      40.50
Equipment for road strengthening program  0.00    0.75    0.75        0.00     1.48       1.49
Road planning (Road Data Bank)          0.00    1.85      1.85        0.00     4.32       4.32
Road maintenance equipment              0.00   11.10     11.10       0.00     51.13      51.13
Research equipment for central road     0.00    2.22     2.22        0.00      4.07       4.07
laboratory
Traffic monitoring and communication    0.00   22.80    22.80       44.00     81.34     125.34
equipment
Staff training                          0.00    3.33     3.33        0.00      7.64       7.64
Technical assistance and road safety    0.00    0.37      0.37 0?00            0.83       0.83
equipment
Subtotal                            583.28  633.11   1,216.39    1,453.96    757.29   2,211.25
Additional Cost Items
Design and Survey                                                   30.92      0.00      30.92
Facilities along JQE                                               203.50      0.00    203.50
Research; test-section of JQE                                        4.88      0.00       4.88
Overhead                                                            52.02      0.00     52.02
Foreign exchange loss                                               99.26      0.00     99.26
Loan/credit serivicing and tax                                      199.82     0.00     199.82
Subtotal                                                        590.40      0.00    590.40
Base Cost                          583.28  633.11   1,216.39    2,044.36    757.29   2,801.65
Physical contingencies                 58.33   63.31    121.64
Price contingencies                   232.54   99.89    332.43
Subtotal                           874.15  796.31   1,670.46
Land acquisition cost                  37.06    -       37.06      262.00      0.00    262.00
Total Project Cost                 911.21  796.31   1,707.52    2,306.36    757.29   3,063.65



- 23 -
TABLE 8B: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate            Actual/latest estimate
Item                                 Local  Foreign    Total          Local   Foreign    Total
Jinan-Qingdao highway                152.24  158.35    310.59        346.56   148.53   495.09
Consultant services for supervision    5.40    1.30      6.70          3.23     1.65     4.88
Equipment for road strengthening program  -    0.20      0.20          0.00     0.18     0.18
Road planning (Road Data Bank)         -       0.50      0.50          0.00     0.52     0.52
Road maintenance equipment             -       3.00      3.00          0.00     6.16     6.16
Research equipment for central road    -       0.60      0.60          0.00     0.49     0.49
laboratory
Traffic monitoring and communication   -       6.15      6.15          5.30     9.80    15.10
equipment
Staff training                         -       0.90      0.90          0.00     0.92     0.92
Technical assistance and road safety   0.00    0.10      0.10          0.00     0.10     0.10
equipment
Subtotal                                                           355.09   168.35   523.44
Additional Cost Items
Design and Survey                                                      7.73     0.00     7.73
Facilities along JQE                                                 29.07      0.00    29.07
Research; test section of JQE                                          0.70     0.00     0.70
Overhead                                                              10.40     0.00    10.40
Foreign exchange loss                                                 19.85     0.00    19.85
Loan/credit servicing and tax                                         39.96     0.00    39.96
Subtotal                                                           107.72     0.00   107.72
Base Cost                         157.64  171.10    328.74        462.81   168.35   631.16
Physical contingencies                15.76   17.11     32.87
Price contingencies                   24.87   27.00     51.87
Subtotal                          198.27  215.21    413.48
Land acquisition cost                 10.02    -        10.02         70.81     0.00    70.81
Total Project Cost                208.29  215.21    423.50        532.62   168.35   701.97



- 24 -
TABLE 8c: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate                Actual/late estimate
Source              Local     Foreign     Total        Local    Foreign    Total
IBRD/IDA                         0.00     110.00    110.00          0.00    110.00    110.00
Central Government              40.50      0.00      40.50        191.69     0.00    191.69
Provincial Government          167.79     105.21    273.00        345.93    58.35    400.28
Total                       208.29     215.21    423.50        533.62    168.35    701.97
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Costs La    Benefits Lb    NPV k    ERR (%)
Jinan-Qingdao Highway
The ICR                                      4,229.90     411.70     2,689.80       19.1
The SAR                                      2,520.00     397.80     4,771.20       23.00
La December 1997 prices. See table 2A of Annex 1.
& First-year benefits (December 1997 prices). See Table 5 of Annex 1.
LI Discount rate = 12 percent.



- 25 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-             Original    Revised
Agree-            nant   Present  fulfillment  fulfillment
ment   Section   type    Status     date        date                Description of covenant         Comments
Credit  2.02(b)     I       C                             Open Special Account and operate it according to
Schedule 4 of the Development Credit Agreement
3.01(a)     5       C                             Commitment to project objectives and meeting
obligations by Beneficiary under the Project
Agreement
3.01(b)     3       C                             Satisfactory onlending arrangement to Beneficiary
3.02        5       C                             Compliance with Schedule 3 of the Development
Credit Agreement
3.03        5       C                             Meeting requirement of General Conditions,
Section 9.03-9.08
4.01        I       C                             Maintaining adequate financial recording and
auditing reporting requirements
Project 2.01       5        C                             Commitment to project objectives and meeting
obligations by Beneficiary under the Project
Agreement
2.02        5       C                             Compliance with Schedule 3 of the Development
Credit Agreement
2.03        5       C                             Meeting requirement of General Conditions,
Section 9.03-9.08
2.04(a)    9        C                             Exchange of views with the Bank Group
2.04(b)     9       C                             Information on interference with project
implementation
2.05       12       C                             Carry out Resettlement Plan
2.06        9       CP                            Toll charges not to exceed 30% of vehicle
operating cost savings
Covenant Class:                                                               Status:
I = Accounts/audits               8 = Indigenous people                    C   = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10 = Project implementation not       CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project    covered by categories 1-9
funds                        11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the          allocation
project or executing agency  12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants           regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement      13 = Other



- 26 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Group Operational
Manual Statement (OD or OP/BP)
TABLE 12: BANK GROUP RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned                                      Actual
Stage of project cycle                       Weeks            $                          Weeks             $
Preparation to Preappraisal              NA             NA                             62.2          169.5
Appraisal                                NA             NA                             44.8          109.9
Negotiations to Board                    NA             NA                              5.8           16.4
Supervision                              NA             NA                             64.5          187.4
Completion                               NA             NA                              7.0           15.8
Total                                                                              184.3          499.0
.a As of November 25, 1997.
TABLE 13: BANK GROUP RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Specialized staff    Imple-       Devel-
Stage of project cycle       Month/   Number of   Days   skills represented    mentation      opment       Type of
year     persons    in field        La           status L     objectives    problems La
Identification               2/22/87       6          6      E, 00, Sp, OA
Identification               7/12/87       4          5      E, 00, Sp, OA
Preparation                 10/12/87       3          6        E, 00, Sp
Appraisal                    6/19/88       3         15       E, 00, Con
Board through                7/20/89       1         16            E
Effectiveness               10/23/89       3         20         E, E, Sp
Supervision  1               7/16/90       1          3            E              2              1
Supervision 2                3/3/91        3          5       E, 00, Con          2              1
Supervision 3               10/17/91      3           6       E, Con, 00          2              1
Supervision 4                7/25/92      2           6          E, 00            2              1
Supervision 5                4/11/93       2          6          E, OA            2              1
Supervision 6                4/7/94        2          2          E, Sp            S              S
Supervision 7                7/15/95       1          5            E              S              S
Supervision 8                7/14/96       3          2        E, RA, OA          S              S
Supervision 9d               11/2/96       3          6        E, RA, OA          S              S
Supervision 10d              4/11/97       3          6        E, RA, OA          S              S
la  00: Operations Officer; E: Engineer; OA: Operations Analyst; Con: Consultant; FA: Financial Analyst; Sp: Transport Specialist;
OS: Operations Specialist; EN: Environmentalist; CO: Counsel; DO: Disbursement Officer; RA: Research Analyst; TS: Training
Specialist.
1 I. Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; S: Satisfactory
Lg Typically the problems included: lack of operational and financial resources of the contractor; quality deficiencies and lack of
consistently effective control of supervision and implementation delay issues
Ld  These missions served also as completion missions.



-27 -                      ANNEX I
ANNEX 1: ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL EVALUATION
Preface
1.    The economic analysis presented in this ICR for the Jinan-Qingdao Expressway
(JQE) is based on updated data on traffic, vehicle operating costs (VOCs), economic cost
and road user benefits and revised assumptions regarding future traffic growth rates. The
methodology used in the economic analysis is similar to that used in the SAR and is
summarized as follows:
(a)   capital investment and maintenance costs have been revised to reflect December
1997 prices and are included in the cost stream;
(b)   the benefit stream, also reflecting December 1997 prices, consists of savings in
VOCs reduced traffic congestion on the existing roads, and cost savings on account
of accident reduction;
(c)   a project life of 20 years has been assumed and the capital investment period for the
Expressway was from 1989 to 1997; and
(d)   full benefits started to accrue on the Expressway in January 1994.
2.    As in the SAR, the Expressway was divided into three sections for economic
evaluation.
Section 1:   from Qingdao to Weifang (100.0 km);
Section 2:   from Weifang to Zibo (98.0 km); and
Section 3:   from Zibo to Jinan (120.3 km);
3.    In addition to the JQE, there are two main existing arterial roads, a north road and
a south road, along the Jinan-Qingdao corridor. Cost and benefit analyses were carried
out separately for each section, as well as the JQE a whole.
Corridor Traffic
4.    The 1997 corridor traffic and its distribution between the two arterial roads and
the JQE is presented in the following table, indicating the SAR forecast and the latest
traffic census data:



-28 -                          ANNEX I
NUMBER OF MOTORIZED VEHICLES PER DAY (ADT) FOR 1997
The          The         The New         Total       Diversion
North Road    South Road    Expressway     Corridor    Factor (DF)
(1)          (2)           (3)       (4)=(1+2+3)    (5)=(3/4)
SAR
Section 1             4,600         6,835         7,541        18,976        39.7%
Section2              5,685         1,182        11,946        18,813        63.5%
Section 3             5,440         6,218        10,680        22,338        47.9%
ICR
Section 1             3,911         2,838        10,763        17,512        61.5%
Section 2             3,210         1,654        10,609        15,473        68.6%
Section 3             5,718         7,850        12,317        25,885        47.6%
(ICR/SAR) Ratios
Section 1            85.0%         41.5%        142.7%         92.3%
Section 2            56.5%        139.9%         88.8%         82.2%
Section 3           105.1%        126.2%        115.3%        115.9%
Sources: Jinan-Qingdao Expressway Management Bureau and the Bank Group staff.
5.     As shown above, the total corridor traffic for 1997 (i.e., the sum of traffic on the
sections of the two existing arterial roads parallel to the JQE and the JQE) was either
close to or higher than the SAR estimates, with the exception of Section 2. Also, the
actual diversion of traffic to the JQE was at a higher rate than forecast (Section 1) or at
about the same rate (Sections 2 and 3). The higher Diversion Factor (DF) ratio indicates
that the JQE attracted a higher proportion of the corridor traffic. As a result, the volume
of traffic in 1997 was considerably higher than the appraisal forecast on Sections 1 and 3
of the JQE but lower on Section 2. The actual DF ratio, based on four-year operation of
the Expressway, shows that the ratio was quite steady for each section as shown in the
following table. The net increase of the 1997 average traffic above SAR estimate, in
terms of the weighted average of traffic on the three sections of the JQE in vehicle-
kilometers per day, is about 390,000 or 12 percent.
TRAFFIC DIVERSION FACTORS TO THE EXPRESSWAY (in %)
Section 1    Section 2    Section 3
1994         59.7          65.4         49.7
1995         54.3          70.1         46.3
1996         62.1          69.6         48.2
1997         61.5          68.6         47.6
Traffic Projection
6.     The projected traffic for the three sections of the expressway for the years 1997-
2015, by type of vehicle, is detailed in Table 1 of this Annex. During 1994-97, actual



-29 -                       ANNEX I
traffic census data were used while for subsequent years the following growth rates have
been assumed:
(a)   normal traffic, except for small cars, would increase by 7.0 percent a year between
1997 and 2000, 6.0 percent a year between 2000 and 2005, and 5.0 percent a year
thereafter;
(b)   since small cars constitute the major portion of the traffic and the traffic demand
is very strong, the growth rate for small cars is estimated to be 2.0 percent higher
than for other types of vehicles, and
(c)    generated traffic is assumed to be 2 percent to allow for additional traffic which
results from the expansion of the national trunk highway system in China in
general and Shandong province in particular.
7.    In the SAR, by comparison, the normal traffic growth rate for the new expressway
was estamated at 11.4 percent a year between 1994 and 2000; and 7.6 percent a year
thereafter. The generated traffic growth rate was assumed to be 13.5 percent of the normal
traffic. It was further assumed that some of the railway traffic, both passenger and freight,
would divert to the JQE. Diversion of railway traffic has been discounted in the revised
projection for the ICR because:
(a)   Most of the railway traffic between Qingdao and Jinan is through traffic. On the
other hand, it was estimated that, in 1996 and 1997, less than 10 percent of the
road traffic had origins and destinations directly between Qingdao and Jinan and
vice versa. Thus, traffic diversion from rail to road is of little significance.
(b)   Highway tariffs [about 40 fen per ton-kilometer (tkm) or passenger-kilometer
(pkm)] are much higher than those for rail transport (6-8 fen per tkm or pkm).
8.    Based on the historical data and projection of the economic development of the
Province and in the influence area of the JQE, the long-term normal traffic growth rate
(1994-2010) for the JQE has been estimated in the range of 5.6 to 9.0 percent, compared
to the SAR estimate of uniform growth rate of 9.0 percent for all three sections of the
Expressway. On this basis and the assumptions presented in the above paras. 6-7, the ICR
overall traffic forecast for the expressway is more conservative than that of the SAR. The
SAR and ICR traffic projections by sections are shown in the following table:



-30 -                           ANNEX I
TRAFFIC FORECAST COMPARISON (ADT)
Section I           Section2           Section3
Qingdao-Weifang       Weifang-Zibo       Zibo-Jinan
SAR
1994                                  5,458                 8,647             7,731
1995                                  6,079                9,631              8,610
1996                                  6,771                10,727             9,589
1997                                  7,541                11,946             10,680
2000                                  10,418               16,505             14,753
2005                                  13,848               21,900             19,612
2010                                 21,660                33,950             30,690
Average growth per year
1994-2010                             9.0%                 9.0%               9.0%
ICR
1994                                  6,241                 8,364             10,130
1995                                  7,094                 9,970             10,846
1996                                 10,461                10,357             12,008
1997                                 10,763                10,609             12,317
2000                                  13,165               13,004             15,145
2005                                  18,462               18,173             19,218
2010                                 24,759                24,285             24,320
Average growth per year
1994-2010                             9.0%                 6.9%               5.6%
Note: All figures are rounded.
Economic Costs
9. The financial cost for the JQE was converted to economic cost (Table 2A) by applying
the shadow prices shown in Table 3. The overall effect of the revised financial cost and
shadow prices is that the total economic cost of JQE is 67.9 percent higher than the SAR
estimates, both at constant December 1997 prices. The foreign and domestic price
indexes used for the economic cost determination are presented in Table 2B.
ECONOMIC COST COMPARISON
(Y million)
SAR                             ICR                  ICRISAR
(in%)
1989 prices    1997 prices     Current prices    1997 prices    1997 prices
Total Costs       1,743.4       2,520.0           2,850.4         4,229.9        167.9
Economic Benefits
10.    The economic analysis includes the benefits derived from: (a) VOC savings, (b)
passenger time savings, (c) relieved congestion on the two parallel arterial roads; (d)



-31-                          ANNEX I
accident cost saving, and (e) construction cost savings (Table 5). The updated VOC per
km for the various types of vehicles used in the ICR and the SAR are presented in Tables
4A and 4B respectively.
11.   The actual traffic census data for 1994-97 shows that, on average, about 60
percent of corridor traffic diverted to the JQE. The drop in traffic level on the two
existing arterial roads reduces traffic congestion on these roads. The benefits resulting
from the lower level of congestion were quantified on the basis of the' parameters shown
in Table 4C.
12.   The value of passenger time savings was estimated as Y 1.0 per passenger-hour.
This level of cost saving is an overall average of the economic value of travel time for
passengers in cars, vans and buses for Chinese highway projects, based on a recent
study.'
13.   Accident cost savings were calculated according to the following formula:2
B =C * (Ro -Rw )* V
Where:
B = annual benefit from accident savings;
C = cost per accident;
R = accident rate (per 100 million vkm) without (Ro) and with (Rw) the
project; and
V = annual vkm of travel (in 100 million vkm).
The constants used in the above formula for "R' (for different classes of roads and the
value of direct property damage) and "C" (for the various classes of roads in China) are
as follows:
R (100 million vkm)    C (Y/accident)
Expressway         - 40 + 0.005 ADT      15,000
Class I road        37 + 0.003 ADT       10,000
Class 11 road      133 + 0.007 ADT        6,500
Class IlI road       140 + 0.03 ADT       4,500
14.   The condition of the two parallel arterial roads will need to be upgraded when the
traffic reaches about 12,000 ADT. With the diversion of traffic to the JQE, there will be a
delayed need for such upgrading. The upgrading/periodic maintenance cost of the parallel
arterial roads is estimated to be Y 5.0 million per kilometer in 1997 prices.
Rust PPK. Australia Feasibility Study Methodology report (March 1996) page 5, Annex G.5
2   From the above study report, page E-1 9, Appendix E.



- 32 -                          ANNEX I
Economic Evaluation
15.    The economic rate of return (ERR) on the JQE investment is estimated to be 19.1
percent versus the SAR estimate of 23.0 percent. Although the recalculated ERR is lower
than that presented in the SAR, the high investment cost has been offset by the higher-
than-estimated benefits generated by a greater volume of traffic than estimated at
appraisal. Total costs and benefits streams, ERR and Net Present Value (NPV) for JQE
are presented in Table 5.
SAR         ICR
Best estimate of ERR           23.0%        19.1%
NPV (12%, Y million)        4,771.2/a    2,689.8
/a NPV was Y 2,182.7 million at 1989 prices and updated
to 1997 prices by multiplying with a factor of 2.1859.
16.    Besides the normal traffic growth scenario, two traffic growth alternatives have
also been considered: e.g., a lower traffic growth projection (30 percent lower than the
normal traffic growth) and a higher traffic growth projection (30 percent higher than the
normal traffic growth). The traffic growth and annual average growth rates under these
two scenarios are as follows:
THE EXPRESSWAY TRAFFIC FORECAST SCENARIOS (ADT)
Section I              Section 2          Section 3
Qingdao-Weifang          Weifang-Zibo       Zibo-Jinan
The Low Projection:
1994                                  6,241                   8,364            10,130
2000                                 12,097                  11,950             13,918
2005                                  14,716                 14,485             15,967
2010                                  17,098                 16,770             17,936
Average growth per year
1994-2010                             6.5%                   4.4%               3.6%
The High Projection
1994                                  6,241                  8,364             10,130
2000                                  14,291                 14,123             16,442
2005                                 23,013                  22,664            23,052
2010                                 35,476                  34,818            32,854
Average growth per year
1994-2010                            11.5%                   9.3%               7.6%
Note: All figures are rounded.
17.    The overall ERR  and NPV  for the different traffic growth  scenarios are
summarized in the following table. It shows that even with the lower traffic projection,



33 -                       ANNEX 1
which is most unlikely to happen, the JQE investment still would yield an ERR of 16.8
percent.
The low traffic growth scenario  The high traffic growth scenario
Best estimate of ERR           16.8%                    21.5%
NPV (12%, Y million)        1,544.9                   4,359.5
Sensitivity Analysis
18.   The ERRs summarized below show the effects of possible changes in the
assumptions made in the evaluation and could alter the yields on the investment. Since
the cost of operation and maintenance of the JQE is a relatively small portion of the
investment cost, any variation in these costs would have no discernible impact on the
ERR. The impact of changes in the traffic levels is covered in paras. 16 and 17. The
ERR of 16.8 percent is still an acceptable yield in case the traffic level is 30 percent
below the most probable level assumed. The effects of 50 percent reduction in benefits
attributable to lower operating cost savings, 50 percent reduction in benefits due to less-
than-estimated saving in travel time cost savings, 50 percent reduction in benefits on
account of cost savings due to reduced congestion, and a 20 percent reduction in total
benefits are also shown Table 5. In all cases listed, the ERR still remains at least 14
percent, exceeding 12 percent, a percentage normally regarded to be the minimum for
highway investment in China.
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
ERR (in %)    NPV(12%, Y million)
VOC savings reduced by 50%                       14.1                676.0
Passenger time savings reduced by 50%            18.3               2,394.3
Congestion savings reduced by 50%                18.4               2,352.0
Total benefits reduced by 20%                    16.0               1,401.3
Financial Evaluation
19.   The toll revenue is the only major financial income from the operation of the JQE.
The toll charges have been changed once (in July 1995) since the Expressway was
opened to traffic in December 1993. The actual total revenue increased by an average of
38.3 percent a year during the first three years of operation (1994-96). The estimated
financial rate of return (FRR) against the full costs of the JQE is 8.8 percent. This
estimate indicates that the revenue from the JQE is expected to cover fully the operation
and maintenance costs of the JQE and also meet all financial obligations such as loan/
credit servicing and repayments. The details of the financial analysis are shown Table 6,
and the results are summarized in the following table:



-34 -                          ANNEX 1
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS RESULTS
Input Data:
Total cost                                 Y 3,063.65 million
Total debt                                   Y 523.44 million
Total equity                               Y 2,540.21 million
Period of loan                                      20 years
Grace period                                         5 years
Loan interest rate (onlending rate)                    5.3%
Results
Rate of return on equity                              10.1%
Financial rates of return:
Best estimate                                        8.8%
Toll revenue (-10%)                                  7.2%
Operating costs (+10%)                               8.4%
Toll revenue (-10%) and operating costs (+ 10%)      6.8%
Level of Toll Charges
20.    The expressway operates as a closed toll system with 21 toll stations. The tolls are
determined by the type of vehicle and distance traveled. There are five groups of vehicles:
(a) passenger cars and small trucks; (b) medium buses and trucks; (c) large buses and
trucks; (d) tractor and trailer; and (e) extra-large vehicles. The longer the distance
traveled, the lower is the toll per kilometer (Y/vkm), as listed below:
Distance    Small Vehicles  Medium Vehicles  Large Vehicles  Tractor Trailer  Extra-large
vehicles
Under 100 km       0.32           0.40             0.48           0.72           1.12
100-200 km         0.29          0.39              0.45           0.69           1.09
Over 200 km        0.24           0.32             0.40           0.64           1.04
21.   According to Clause 2.06 of the Project Agreement, the toll rates charged should
not exceed 30 percent of the total VOC savings. In the absence of a comprehensive traffic
origin and destination survey and VOC savings calculation for various trips involved, an
approximating analysis has been used to highlight the present relationship between the
prevailing toll rates and the financial VOC savings on the three sections of the
Expressway for which economic evaluations have been carried out, and the economic and
financial VOCs have been available, as of 1997. On the basis of the prevailing toll rates
and VOC savings shown in Table 7, the following tentative conclusions may be drawn:
(a)    The JQE toll charges for large-size vehicles are reasonable and are slightly high
(compared to VOC savings) for medium-size vehicles, tractor and trailers. The
charge is quite high on small-size vehicles (small passenger cars, vans, minibuses
and small trucks). The high toll charge on small vehicles may reflect the high
traffic demand by this type of vehicle, and the greater propensity to pay by the



- 35 -                       ANNEX 1
operators/owners of these vehicles. In 1997 small passenger cars constituted about
35-50 percent of the total Expressway traffic.
(b)    On the section where the travel distance on the Expressway is significantly shorter
than on the parallel arterial roads, the driver may prefer to use the Expressway. In
such a case, as on Section 1, the toll level has less effect on the decision to use the
Expressway. This could indicate that toll rates higher than 30 percent of VOC
savings are not necessarily a deterrent to road users, if it results from substantial
distance and time savings. Toll rates are high on Sections 2 and 3 because the
savings in travel distance, compared to the distance of travel on the parallel
arterial roads, are relatively small.



TABLE 1A: JINAN-QINGDAo HIGHWAY CORRIDOR TRAFuFnc SummARY
(Qingdao-Weifang Section, AADT)
Nok  So.,1      X3. Mo                         SO"l       Sot%                 No.13.    load.       Nra                  Nartl.     Sw..*       SC.                 North   50.1)1                           North33ai  sooth'    Ido
Mtod      good   Yo.,LoI                 lbS        Koa     %*3o"l                  !4*4        Kt      !a3s                    od         a~                              s ~a4 Ifliriloot Mfi- l  ls               ood    !o*d    06t*.oo
o   33*       7.0       3S.1                        3               4                     F          F         F                     II        311     E.Prmu                  Fair      fair     Good                 31-10     I"-       80-330
1* to    t         23.0                                                            3.114      311%       3,0%                0P..od3   (?o40d3   IFo"d3
--.--4.11 Car-                    ".f...-3rdor 1o..-.   ----lArK Bad--                          *.3,oTrolk.--    -llo.6o.a Trod-    --Lar Trmk-  --Tro.tor.Trollr-  -- Tol*-----
30.1)4      3i~lhokt                       UMM11.A l                       1.31100                          w1)130o1                        witbao                           wth*ow                        W4Ilool                        WiIhooi
old       S*.       034       'ar        01.1       0         Nm,        Old        Old       'ae        Old        Old       SC.        Omd        Old        Nr         Old        Old      NM.        Old       Old       N,         Old       Old        N.*       Old
rood      road      rood       rood      rood       road       rood      rood       rod       rood        road      road      r08  road r       ood ro         rood       1*04      roa        rood      Ij rood        rood       rood      rood ,Od        rood      road
3994     103 70   11030       3.r34      1.333       339        477        31)3      273        133         3 4       III       771       343        112        634        303       3Jul       193       710       39         M4         44       1333      3.7*7     3,7*4.    2.473
3993                  2.71?~~~~~I  3.393    1,374.      737        279'       *3        73          13        396       944         M3        733        7M1       4311        72      1,013       703      306         344I      337        33      6.616     3,121    3.403
*996                 ~~~~~~~3.621  I,1m     k.432       3*3        4011      423        226         is        2013    31)10        243        33         932        61)3       333     1,322      S"1       334         341       236        92     11.333     4.61)3     3,730
3997                  3~~~~~~~.71.3  ,1)210  1,417      931)       4310      330        236         19)       3*3     3.333         M7        473        9)1        636        I74     1,3731     920       3331       362        762       Wo)    11."6       4,73      3.933
73311)               ~~~~~~4.61*  2.1134    3,14       3,30%4      493       394        377         73        33      3.373        3*3      *073       3,3.1        73         433     3,49      I.3m       3337        423       314       333     *0.463     3.793      4,669
313)                          6.014*     4.33.     3,734      1,411        636       74         33          39)       341     1.331       399)      3,72       3,363       9114       077      2,0333    1.472      331        37        433       133      34,613     6.124     6,491
3131                          9,0.6      5.1)433   3.   1,      4311 3,u    37     1.3333       471         33        43      2,763        34.9     3.133      *,"3       3.336       736      3.'3      3.179      6711       719       s36       393      MM33      3.99       1,629
30*3                         13.330      .1.91     S3,39      O.36          u 36 13.293         6312        47        333     2.1113      0.3       2.333      7.312      1,6313      939    3,763       2,390      1163       931)      614       246      2G.J33    34,6431    1.4'34
*993     330       3413 03 t  t  2.39    1.71)1      39 w       3,93       23        134         76         is        331      6*1        *09        497        633        3t3        731     3,03        1193      *4         *4         33        39      3,743      3,493     1,741
M99                           7,0113     1,770     3,1)4       3Ito        133      22         33           Is        93       $1)3       *93        623        IV3        Its        71.2    3.1)3      91*1       is)        369J      233        69)    6.43        3,973     2,477
W4                   ~~~~~3.9*7  2.713     1.133        743        3139      339        $17         34       *1)3       932        309        163      1.1)4l       763        277     1,30      1,143      *60         399      326         73      0,31)     3,w11     2,6.43
MY9                           4.3373     3.4113    *313         77         323      336         131         is        *1)3    1.010       31         6930      1,037       33         333     1,334     1.170       3114       433       333        so)     3.644      6,131)    2.833
2*041                         1,473      3.617    *166          oil        674       39          M1         29)       *26     I,1m        )9         9111      1,276       933        341    1.39$       1,399      *96        43S       399        39      30.693     3,372     3,323
21093                         3,433      S.3.u..   z 14       1,322l       13        37         21)1        39        369    l.3144       31*3      3,1)0      1.31)7     3.331       436    2.134      3.073       262        633       334       139      14,977    10,331     4.639
71013                        loi5)4.     7 )?4     3433       3.1.. *L     46        301        766         31         3,      .3.1)3     647       3,3317      .3 1.37 '97           3533    3.73)    2,309        334        334       6*3        132     70,497    33,163     6,397
240131,.4                               333        4,333      I.99       3.363      633        140         64         MP1   3.9,           36,      1.7,17    3,731      3.1)34       343    3.475    3.3349        476      3.06.       1170      3114    36.9*9    13.633      32324.
3934                 ~~~~~      ~~4393.  3,l7  I 331   0*)        413       OIl        3u3         33        331     3403         33       3115       1.327        6011       339     2,033     1.393      441        376        99)       *79     *0.41      6.241     4,239
P.133                 3~~~~~~,333  3*163   3,330       1,3         034       603        336         33        39      1,74         331      1.4*3      1,343       933        394      IOw9      3.61)7     437        3*3       33         *36     *3.046     7,1.9     3,973
W.)G3                         3,337      3,97      3,364     *113         'An       72         33          47        III    31.33         sit      0,343      3,993      11.36        630     1.34      7,040       414        747       332       *63     363139    30,441      6,371)
1993                          71         0*3       I,7.1      1.69        933        766       363         44        374      !2.33       367       3.31)     7,073       I,39        674    3,634      2,im9       334       177        397       331)    17.112   1)1,763      6,749
31601                         4,6         ,443     13.333     .1331      1.04        101       437         31        3111    3.33         6177     3.113      7.447      11.63        717     I.39      2.439       "93        9*3       733       2333    33.315    13,163      T.993
Z30*                         14,342      v,46A4   ,33*        3,1)7      3,.973    3,'l13      3in         61        31)    3.33'3       396       I.4m       ).263      I,33       1         4,337     3,344       793      3,234       934       230    39,397    *11462   13,130
333110                      311.116     *3,334    6,442       1.4*1)     1,993     1,51*       73t          33       601      4.294      1.13M     3,1330     4.171      3,30        3,33     3,333.    4.613      it 1,131   .6       1,330       343     39,330   34,739    44.673
31*1                        31,334      *4.6*0    9),396      A-33.      7,439I    1,933       942        M1         *3*      3,43*      3.436     4,3)3      3,3li      3..4*      1,613       n 67 1  3447      3,20       3,964     3,34        440k   133.14   33.776    39,7711
Idowr  I~L   a. Rooldbsaomo0.                4. WA#owwbo           I,,3      F. nbI               11 Hlly, M. m3owwiftw*           I)j     AN the figobotAmr,o.ded.



TABLE iB: JINAN-QINGDAO HIGHWAY CORRIDOR TRAFFc SummARY
(Weifang-Zibo Section, AADT)
66665(m)? 1                    N~~~~~~~~~S...? Lftar                 Gro,2.., 1ads. In%)l 3'                         Road Mras                                RoadS Ceedlia."                     Ay.ros Spail tIkoloor)
N.b  Sooth      Nt.                 Norok      South      Nra                 Snorh      Sooth      Nor                  North     South       NM.                 North    S.tgh       New                 North    Soot        NCs.
Repad     Road    IIit.g.,               Read       Road   Ilmihoio                 Rea-d     Reid   n!&rba.                  Read      Paead    Ifith.s)               Road      Road   111h,war                Raid      Raid    HIilh.or
a    .0       7.0        15.6                 2          2         a                     p          H5        7                    II        III     Kspr20o                ftair     Boar    Good                   3S583   25-411    00120
b .e     9.0        23.6                                                           .%        35         ."                 IP&tcd)   1Pesrd)    PI'srd)
-SmomSCar-                     -Strdfivao Boo-.-Li,.c Boo.--    -Smelt Truck-    .-Altldk Trok.-   .La,,r Truck-  --TatrTrl ---                                                                                                        Toa
Rlood       11iohoo                        Witheal                        Withoat                          Witham                         WitlIto                          Without                       Withaut                       WithouA
ka.th (k.e)      praro        Wit P -r.j-r      proelm       WthPaia            sor_eir     'Li t15  trejrrt   pro,icrt     Wdub pcaro,,       pRaiot        Wit Prjc           prtojrra    'do  Pojact       poject       with Project      project     With Frojrcs
old       N..       Ol         N         Old       Olm        NM.       Old        Old       N-o'o           01.1 Ol         N.         Otd        Old       NM.        Old        Old      Na        Old        Old       NM.       Old       Old        NMa        Old
r.*d      teed      crod       cred      read      read       red       ,oad       cred       ra.id     read      reed       read       read       coed       crad      read       read      read     reaid      road      road      reed      rood      roand      roaid
Secrja 22; 'ddfaa5- Zib.
199      6890    9500         ).263      2.323      742        347        435       117        SI         31         30     1,316        215      2.106      1.046       644        402     1.622     2.527       104       503        97       406      1,449    3.S22      2.927
599                           ).513      2.9310     21         669        567       102        1s0        36         44    1.366         326      1.2442     1.127      1530        277    L1*59      1.761       45        322        106      216      9.31s    6.353      2,13
1996                          3.934      Z."55      936        745        633       10S        03         36         47    1.6.17        333      01.4       1.242       940        294     1.757     1,744        43       376       147       229      9,5312    6,539     2,991
19"1                          .1A11      3,073     5.039       740        649       III        53         27         is    1.712         342      1,370      1.92        972        320     1.159     1.3m         71       392        131      241     10,212     1.002     3.210
1111                          $.110      3,552    1.235        907        333       132        020        44         31    2,011         401      1.610      1.321      1,161       3601   2.119    2,136          53        461      2Ito      211      12.310    0,356     3,732
20119                         7.323      5701      1.119     1.!14      1.037       173        137        39)        Is    2.7,11        346      2.13~3     2,036      1.334       452     2.929     2.535        71       617       341       376      17,157   I 1,5949    5,135
:0111                        111.31      1.119    2AH3       1.5341     1.324      22'6        273        33        14.0    3.447        69)7     2.3301     2.341      1.903       613    3.739    3.641          91       316l      305       455)    22.545   16,033      6.313
i051%                        I ANI4    11.22.    3.371       1.935      1.690       25        2214        96        11%    4.4.0,        Aw,      3.314      3.316      2.533       713    4.772    4,636         116      1.0416     393       623    30.494   21,476       9,010
A.4ct.. Ibd           9 40                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
Sooth Rd
1994     5444    '11101 I     1.65.,     1.291      352        251        221       00          42        16         '.1      72'        144       50,9       '39        332        241       533       751        34       219        SIt      2419     4.349    2,542      1.3027
1999                          1.963      2.341      436        311        N%0       33         5          53  440.)03        U          56         bill       SW0       141.        541      911       9645        it       666        Ss       15       .4,913    3,317     l,IAsS
8996                          2.435      1.943      492        III        3235       36        .02        1 II      214       14'i       132       677        639        455        131       929       597        22        193       73       IIII    3,0311    3,511      1,3403
1991                  2~~~~~~~~~1114  5.55!  534       396        313        63         44         29        25       03         276        7017       666       3101       166       933       935        33        201        77      224       3.2162   3,6127     2.654
2066                  2~~~~~~~~~1633  2.'p   637       467        39$0       W 69        I         21         2'     01041       22         52',       753        395       513      1,126    lOin         27        237        92       243      6,339    4,416l    1,921
24053.7                                  2 936      936    .63           J333      92         65         29         3,1    1.5911       2021     12119      IltIl       1wr)       245     1.5417    1,471        36       327       223       194      5.8120    6.174     2,634
2010                  ~~~~~~    ~~~3.431  4.115  0.13  793        6X11      113    7               33        54~012.733          3604     1.411      1.133      1,521       327      2.923     1,577       46        403       137      245      11.736    5,230      3.306
3055                  ~~~~~~     ~~~7,655  5.7761   ,1.42  1,027  565       249        M2          47        (4    2.2o3         449      1.51406    1.71,      2.3013      405      2,4S    2,396         39        527       200      313    13,691   11,049       4.642
A.C..o Read          0a W
Total Cerridar:
2994                          4.943      3.021    1.124        525        635       277        123        47         76    2,4rt         424      1.675      5.3153      976        6419    2,436    2.295        131l      762       247       623     22,795    8.364      4,434
199"                          3.733      4.437    5.345      1.053        535      133        III         13         07    213721        493      2.579      5.707      1.251       429    2.740    3,675          62       455       162       327     14.220    9,970      4.230
1996                          $.g59      4.341    2.440      1.122       935       164         133        54         71    2.496        3415      1.991      5.558     1.436        443     2,706    2.642        63        369       222       347     54,1155    210.337   4,5335
21993                         6.220      4.633     1.373     5.236       952       574        229         46         13    Z. '93       320       3.077     2.935      2,432        4916   2MIA    2,755          241b      593       225       36S    153473   523.642      4.964
lOU                           7,33       3,550    1.573      1,37       1,173      205         133                   A  7    3.031      629       2,439     2.V41       1.739       343     3.323    3.33         5to       695       272       426    25,637    13.004      3.633
2095                  22~~~~~~~~1.33)  5.640  2.735   1.239      5.330      269        203         05        223    4.002        525      3.264      3.554      2.354        730    4.436    4.329        507        934       364      370    23.955    1.1.73       7.122
loll                         13.952     52.125    3.564,4    2.347      2.112      343        362        112        236    3.22        2.037      4.156      3.936     34204u       932    3.662    3.323         237      1.193      465       725     34,6104   24.253    15.329
2625                 ~~~~~~~~~22.426  56.996    3.4241  2.993    2.355      Ai7        333        243        192    6.663       5.349     3.3516     3.024      3.534      2,2190    7,337    7.052       273      1.323       393      930    46.25:3  32.325    13.660
Nola5  IIS1   a  Rood paIraw",t              S INVAIDN' todhd      .2       P  F05.1            of 52.22. M1 U5.aeeior"..         J       AU d. filtata . we   mmid.d



TABLE 1C: JINAN-QINGDAO HIGHWAY CORRIDOR TRAFFIC SUMMARY
(Zibo-Jinan, AADT)
Width (M) /_1                           No. of Laoa                          Gradinot (( it. in%) /2                        Rood a oos                              Road Condition                    Averoje Speed (ho/bor)
Nenh    Sooth       New                 North     Sooth      NMw                 North     South      Nrv,               Noth       South      New                 North    Sooth    New                   North    South      New
Rood    Rood   lligh..                 Rood       Rood   Iliohooc               Rood       Rood   flighoo                Road       Road    lfifh.oc               Road    Rood   llthwov                 Rood    Road   llihhwv
0        7.0      7.0       I9.0                 2          2         4                    P         It        P                   11        III     E.preot.               Foir     Poor    Good                 3S-S01    2-433    Ith-12t
b       9.0       9.0       26.0                                                        13.0%        t.0%    3.1%                (tPed)   (P8vod)   (PsAed)
--....-..Stooll Cor..---.-    .--.-Alvdiord,--th iu OI or-- .      Loc Boo--.---            -----Smolt lrot/---   _. .r-tidio,  lr-ck-o                                    -  -------  _-Troct.8Tr7iler---           -.uTo f-- . _    _
Road       Without                       Wilhoul                        Withat                         Without                        Wilhol                         Wilhout                      Wihoul                        Without
knylhl (n)      I-rjet       With Project      project     With Project      Project      With Prject        .I-cct      With Project      pr'ject      With Project      ptrojct     With Project     Irojet       With project     projCct      With Pojec
Old      New       (ltd      NCo       Old       Old        Ne.       Old       Old       N          Ol (ld    (11      NPo        Old        Old       New        Old       Old      New       Old       Old       New       Old       Ohl       New       Old
rood      reod     ro.d      rood      road      road       rood      road      rood      rood       rood      rood      .od       road       rood      rood       road      rood     road      rood      rood      rood      rood      rood      rood      rood
SCctioo I3: Zibho Jin.o
Nonh Rood:
1994     129.10    12030    3,720      2.9       1,634       670       350       290        148        23        123    1.260       233       11)27     1,168       570       390    1,52)    1,120        41         361        02      4)       9.064    4,302    4,362
195                         3.934      2.139     1.793       724       302       342        174        20        146   1316        231      1.27S     I40'        573        836    1,93S     1.304      534        719        76      643     101414    4,820      W.594
199f                        4.431      3.065    1,393        700       417       363        171        23        153    1.635       210      1.353      1,512       626       YY6    1,726    1,139        5Y7        771        t9      612     1 1,060    5,639    5,421
1997                         4,636     3,142     1.494       *12        420      304        IIS        25        161    1,7W0      287       1,413     1,372       642       930      1,796    1.16t      620        t01        92      709    11.302    5,714    3.711
2110                        35,773     3,969    1,104        956        5)1      445        21S        28         IX0    2111)3      343      1,660     1,152       761      105S   2.114       1,395      719        945       109      133    13.161    7.123    6,731                  1
20tl5                        1,J43     3.532    2,651       1.279       604      395        292        33        234    2,600        439     2,221      2,479     1.126     1.453    2,t30     1,067      962       1.264      146    1,11     1911K3     t 10,12    9,234             t,
2010                        11,919     t.,\U    3,711       1,632       172      760        3712       4         324    3,421        S/3i    2,735      3,164      1,310     1,Y54    3,611    2,303    1,2l1       1,613      It6    1.427    25,711    13,566    12,146               00
2015                        16,647    11.473    3.214       2.0Y3     1.114      969        475        61        414    4,366        740     3.61,      4,038      1,672     2,366    4,60')    3,042     1,56Y     2,059       230    1,21    34,317  1,346   15,971                   1
Aces Road            a Oa
South Rood;
39       I14J00    120830    4,660     2,611    2,142        138       475       363        104        20        156    1,573       291      1,204      1,439       712       747    1,912    1,4111       S11        7112      103      509     11,330    5G,62     5,702
1995                         4,919     2,673    2.244        9W4        477      427       219         36       13    I.1YS        297       1,591     1,761       716      1,1145    2,423    1,7311     693        ISO       93       X04     13,0211    6,026    6,994
199G                         5,573    31149    2,424         973        322      453       223         29        194    2.044       350      1,694      1,891       7J3      1,103    2,160    3,425       735        963       III      032    133.29    6,369      7,460
1997                       35796       3.227    2,536       1.,14      535       479       232         34        192    2.126       3Go      1,766      1,967       003    1164    2,246       1,460      706      1,0112      114      HIS    14,383    6,333    7.8511
20I0                         7,217     4,078    3,139       1,194       639      S55        273        36        238    2.50W        429     2,075      2,317       93'      1,357    2,646    1746       900      1,10       136    1,044     17,331    111023    9,300
2005                         3,516     4,742    3,775       1,353       716      641       310         46        263    2,045        402     2,363      2,632      1,9175    3.550    30tK16    1,934     1,032     1,341      133    1.18Y    20,0011 9,166   10.Y42
20R0                        101123     5.7210    4403       1,524       *16      700       349         45        303    3,196        547     2,649    21957        1,224     1,732    3,377    2,220      1,149     1,506       174    1.332    231131    10,754   12.277
2013       -                11,9J4     6,650    5i29'       1,732       91       si         396       35         331    3.631        615     3,016      3,360      1,371     I.9J0    3,036    2J494      J.343      1.711      195    1.317    26,611    12,297   14.314
Acets Road            0 I10
Total Corridor;
IS9J0                        *3tY      4,712    3.676       1,01       *355      653       332         31        211    2t.35       324      2,311      2,627      1,212     1.345    3,441     2,521      920      1,263       1Y     1,0171    20,394   10,130   10,264
IW5                         Y,S33      4.J14    4,039       1,621       059      769       393         G4        329    3.411       535      2.876      3,170      1,2Y9     1IYY1    4,361     3,114     1,247     1,61      171    1,447    23.434    189,46    12,581
1996                        10.1t31    1.214    3.17       1,75i      939      *IG        401         52        349    3.679       630      3,049      3,403      1,41)     I ,;94    3,806    2,564    1,322      1,734      200    1,534    24,119    123,014    12.10S
I"97                        10.432     6,569    4,1163     1,126       963      I03        417         59        350    3,26       647      3,179      3,539      1,445     2,19)4    4,042    2,620    1,414      1,803      206    1,597    25,005    12,317   13.56
210t1                      Il,W9U      *,J47    4,943      lIS0       1, 1,1    1,000m     491         64        426    4,S07        772     3,73S      4,169      1,726     2,443    4,761    3,141      16t10     2,124      249      t,179    31.192   11,145   t6.j47
210111                       699      10H.l574    6,425     2,636     1,4110   13,36       602         *3        519    5,521       941      4,5t3      5,111     2,101      3,010    5,035    3,Y21    2,014       2,603     27YY    2,306    39,314   19,21Y    20.I11%
2dl0                       22,uU02    13,1uo    0,IU        3,136     1,609    1,460        721        93        620   6617       1.133     3,404      6,121)    2,534      3,506    6,919    4,611    2,377       3,119      3611    2.739    41,742   24,320   24,422
201u                        23.6531    IY.127   10,5U1      3,115     2,027    1,737        372       120        732    7,997      1,363     6,63S      7,397     3,043      4,354    Y,445    5,333    2,910       3,770      432    3,331    60,927   30,643   30,2t4
Nors  /-I:  a: Iotdpr  eoleota            bh Wihdroodhcd        L2:       F. FbI;              II: illy; hM  Mountainous;    03:    Alldteflyo,scagorounded.



- 39 -                                        ANNEX 1
TABLE 2A: ECONOMIC COST SUMMARY
(Yuan million)
1989       1990    1991        1992       1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    Total
A. Financial (current):
Qindao-Weifang                18.05      90.26    90.26      180.54    270.80    90.26    45.13    45.13    72.21       902.64
Weifang-Zibo                  t8.87      94.36    94.36      188.73    283.09    94.36    47.18    47.18    75.49       943.62
Zibo-Jinan                    24.35     121.74   121.74     243.48    365.21   121.74    610.87    60.87    97.39    1217.39
Total                         61.27     306.36   306.36     612.75    919.10   306.36    153.18    153.18   245.09    3063.65
B. Economic (December 1997 constant):
Qindao-Weifang                34.71     154.13   146.35     276.18    370.27   103.59    45.50    45.06    69.05    1244.84
Weifang-Zibo                  36.42     161.71   153.53     289.69    381.10   108.48    47.64    47.15    72.19    1304.91
Zibo-Jinan                    46.86     20S.08   197.57      372.80    499.70   139.77    61.40    60.79    93.14    1680.11
Total                        117.99     523.92   497.45     938.67   1258.07   351.84    154.54   153.00   234.38    4229.86
For Economic Evaluation  (Yuan million)                                       For Financial Evaluation  (Yuan million)
Works:                                                                       Economic Cost:
Jinmn- Qingdao highway                        1.975.94                       Co.t as for economic evaluation                  2.350,39
Consultant services for supervision             40.50
Road maintenance equipment                      51.13                     Additional investment itenax:
Road laboratory                                  4.07                        Equipment for road strengthening program            1.45
Traffic monitoring                              125_t4                       Road daita bank                                      4.32
T'echnical assistance                            0.B3                        Staff training                                       7.64
Facilities along the route                     203.50                        Loan/ credit servicing atiul tax                   t99.81
Subtotal                       2,401.31                               Subtotal                                   213.26
Adidlitional invesment items:                                                Total                                              3.063.65
LIanl actluisition andl resettiement          262.00
Design and survey                               30.92
Rcsearch and testing                             4.55
Overhead                                        52.0-
Foreign exchange lo.s                           99.26
Subtotal                         449.08
Total                                  2,550.39
TABLE 2B: PRICE INDEX FOR CALCULATION OF ECONOMIC COST
(in %)
1988       1989    1990        1991       1992    1993    1994    1995    1996             1997
Foreign prices               7.30      -0.70      5.70       2.10      4.30   -0.30    3.60         8.20   -4.40        -5.50
Domestic prices             12.50       8.90      6.30       5.70      6.20   13.60   21.70   14.80          6.50       2.00



TABLE 3: SHADOW PRICE CALCULATION
(December 1997 prices, Million Yuan)
Qindsu-eei'ant                           Wcifang-Zibu                                      Zibo-Iinan
Gonver                                                                                                                                           Total
-sion            Financial                                  Financial                                 Financial
factor  Local       Foreign   Total   Economic  local          Foreign    l'otal   Economic Local        Foreign   Total    Economic  Financial  Economic
Land                          I 00     70 22      000       70 22     70 22     68 82        0.00      68 82      68.82     84.26      0.00      84.26       84.26    223.30    223.30
I.abor:
t'nskIilled                  I 0O     4101       000       4101      41.01     1326         000        4326      4326      55.44      0.00      55.44       55.44    139.71     139.71
Semili sIdlledfl'echinician  1 50     33 55      0.00      33 55     50.33     35.40        0.00       35.40     53.10     45,36      0.00      45.36       68.04     114.31    171.47
Superisor                    300       939       6.28      15.67     3445       991         628        16.19     36.01     12.70       8.38     21.08       46.48      52.94    116.94
Mactrials:
Steel                       I00       62.63      0.00     62.63      62.63     6607         0.00      6607      66.07      84.67      0.00     84.67        84.67    213.37    21337
l'imber                     100       21.85      0.00     21.85      21.85     23.05        0.00      23.05     23.05      29.53      0.00     29.53        29.53     74.43      74.43
Cement                      1.00      25.57      0.00     25.57      25.57     26.98        0.00      26.98     26.98      34.57      0.00     34.57        34.57     87.12      87.12
Sand                        0.80      52.19      0.00     52.19     41.75      55.06        0.00      55.06     44.05      70.56      0.00     70.56        56.45    177.81     142.25
Stone                       0.80     47.57       0.00     47.57     3806       50.19        000       50.19     40.15      64.31      0.00     64.31        51.45    162.07    129.66
Bitumen                     1.00     42.13      50.25     92.38     92.38      44.44       50.25      94.69     94.69      56.95     67.00    123.95       123.95    311.02    311.02
Others                      I.0       21.40      0.00     21.40      21.40     22.58        0.00      22.58     22.58      28.93      0.00     28.93        28.93     72.91      72.91
Fuel:
Diesel                      1.00      11.33      000      11 33      11.33     11.96        0.00      11.96     11.96      15.32      0.00      15.32       15.32     38.61     38.61
Gasoline                    1.00      14.99      0.00     14.99      14.99     15.81        000       15.81      15.81     20.26      0.00     20.26        20.26     51.06      51.06
lIeasy oil                  l.W       0.07       0.00      0.07      0.07       008         0.00       0.08      0.08       0.10      0.00      0.10         0.10      0.25      0.25
Others                      L.00       5 00      0.00      5.00       5.00      5.27        0.00       5.27      5.27       6.75      0.D0      6.75         6.75     17.02      17.02
Water                         080       38Si      000        3.88      3.10      409         0.00        4.09      3.27      5.24      0.00       5.24        4.19      13.21     10.56
EIletricit)                   200       5 96      000        596      11.92      629         0.00       6.29      12.58      8.06      0.00       8.06       16.12     20.31      40.62
Mobilization                  I 0Do     2 39      000        2.39      2 39      2 52        0.00        2.52      2.52      3.23      0.00       3.23        3.23      8.14       8.14
M1echanlical equipment        I 00     8127      100 49    181 76    181.76     85 74       100 49     186.23    186.23    109.87    134.01    243.88       243.88    611.87    611.87
Otheri                        I 00    193 22      0 00    193.22     193 22    20'9.08       0.00      209.08    209.08    271.89      0.00    271.89       271.89    674.19    674.19
'rotal                        745.6    157.02    902.64    923.43     786.60       157.02     943.62    965.56   1008.00    209.39   1217.39      1245.51   3063.65    3134.50
O%erall conwersion factor                                              1.02                                        1.02                                       1.02                 1.02
/_I: All the figure are rounded.
/_2: Shadmu echaunge rage  1.01.



-41-                                    ANNEX 1
TABLE 4A: ECONOMIC VEHICLE OPRATTNG COSTS
(Yuan per km, December 1997 prices)
Good                 F     air                      Poor
Flat Roll  llill   Mount. Flat Roll  flill  Mlount. Flat Roll  llill  Mount.
North Road:
Small car                   0.598    0.624   0.644    0.673    0.700   0.719    0.871    0.898  0.917
Small bus                   0.805    0.955   1.077    0.893    1.037   1.156    1.141    1.273  1.391
Medium bus                  0.912    1.099   1.259    1.027    1.218   1.375    1.274    1.455  1.611
Large bus                   1.019    1.242   1.441    1.162    1.399   1.594    1.408    1.636  1.831
Small truck                 0.874    1.092   1.257    0.969    1.184   1.345    1.184    1.373  1.562
Medium truck                0.954    1.175   1.396    1.059    1.302   1.522    1.279    1.522  1.765
Large truck                 1.188    1.457   1.725    1.353    1.643   1.900    1.610    1.900  2.175
Tractor/trailer             2.243    2.958   3.577    2.591    3.372   4.030    3.084    3.825  4.503
South Road:
Small car                   0.598    0.624   0.644    0.722    0.751   0.771    0.934    0.963  0.983
Small bus                   0.805    0.955   1.077    0.935    1.087   1.212    1.196    1.334  1.459
Medium bus                  0.912    1.099   1.259    1.068    1.267   1.431    1.326    1.513  1.676
Large bus                   1.019    1.242   1.441    1.202    1.447   1.649    1.456    1.692  1.894
Small truck                 0.874    1.092   1.257    1.014    1.239   1.408    1.239    1.437  1.635
Mledium truck               0.954    1.175   1.396    1.102    1.355   1.584    1.331    1.584  1.837
Large truck                 1.188    1.457   1.725    1.387    1.685   1.948    1.650    1.948  2.230
Tractor/trailer             2.243    2.958   3.577    2.655    3.456   4.130    3.161    3.920  4.614
Notc: /_I: Excluding the value of passcnger timc.
TABLE 4B: THE SAR'S ECONOMIC VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS
(Yuan per km)
Good           t          Fair          --Poor
Flat Roll  llill  NMounL  Flat Roll  Hlill  Nlount. Flat Roll  lHill  Miount.
Mid-1988 prices:
Small car                   0.273    0.295   0.350    0.341    0.369   0.437    0.385    0.416  0.492
Small bus                   0.435    0.479   0.608    0.543    0.599   0.760    0.679    0.710  0.891
Large bus                   1.145    1.366   1.653    1.432    1.7.08   2.066    1.558    1.859  2.352
Small truck                 0.273    0.295   0.379    0.341    0.369   0.474    0.382    0.412  0.519
Mledium truck               0.380    0.441   0.535    0.475    0.551   0.669    0.527    0.612  0.728
Large truck                 0.548    0.604   0.733    0.648    0.755   0.916    0.709    0.826  0.994
Iractor/trailer             1.079    1.306   1.570    1.348    1.633   1.963    1.458    1.765  2.107
Decembcr-1997 prices:
Small car                   0.597    0.645   0.765    0.745    0.807   0.955    0.842    0.909  1.075
Small bus                   0.951    1.047   1.329    1.187    1.309   1.661    1.484    1.552  1.948
Large bus                   2.503    2.986   3.613    3.130    3.734   4.516    3.406    4.064  5.141
Small truck                 0.597    0.645   0.828    0.745    0.807   1.036    0.835    0.901  1.134
Mledium truck               0.831    0.964   1.169    1.038    1.204   1.462    1,152    1.338  1.591
Large truck                 1.198    1.320   1.602    1.416    1.650   2.002    1.550    1.806  2.173
'Ilractor/trailer           2.359    2.855   3.432    2.947    3.570   4.291    3.187    3.858  4.606



-42 -                                ANNEX 1
TABLE 4C: SPEED, CONGESTION AND HIGHWAY CAPACITY
(By highway class)
80.0
70.0
60.0                                              -*_- +Seriesl IF
50.0                                              --- Series2
40.0                       .                           Series3,
30.0                                              - X  Series4
-E 2Sernes5
10.0
0.0                      ..
t   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9   10  11
Express-                                                                               Maximum
way     Class I  Class If Class Ill Class IV                                          Free-flow
(Series I)  (Series 2)  (Series 3)  (Series 4)  (Series 5)                              Capacity
Congestion
(V/C)                  Speed (km/hour)                      Jinan-Qingdao Highway Corridor (MTE/dav):
1. Qingdao- Weitang section
0.0      79.0      66.0     52.0     38.0      34.0            North (2 lanes, F, ll)             15.600
0.1      78.0      65.0     51.0     37.0      33.0             South (2 lanes, F, 1I1)            9,200
0.2      77.0      64.0     50.0     36.0      32.0             Expressway (4 lanes, F, Exp.)    44,000
0.3      76.0      63.0     49.0     35.0      31.0
0.4      75.0      62.0     48.0     34.0      30.0        11. Weifang- Zibo section
0.5      74.0      60.0     46.0     33.0      29.0            North (2 lanes, F, 11)             15,600
0.6      73.0      57.0     44.0     32.0      28.0             South (2 lanes, Fl, 111)           7,800
0.7      72.0      53.0     42.0     31.0      27.0             Expressway (4 lanes, F, Exp.)     44,000
0.8      70.0      48.0     39.0     28.0      24.0
0.9      65.0      42.0     35.0     25.0      21.0        Ill. Zibo- Jinan section
1.0      55.0     35.0      30.0     20.0      16.0            North (2 lanes, F, 11)             15.600
South (2 lanes, H, 111)            7,800
Gradients   Maximum Free-flow Capacity (MTE/dayllane)             Expressway (4 lanes. F. Exp.)     44,000
rFR      11,000    9,600    7,800    4,600    1,600
H/M      10,000    7,100    6,400    3,900    1,500
F - Flat. R - Rolling. St - Hilly. NM - Mountainous
Sourcc:   Rust PPK Feasibility Study Methodology, March 1996, p.38.



TABLE 5: ECONOMIC EVALUATION
QINGDAO-JINAN HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Y Million, December 1997 Prices)
Basc Case                                                                    Sensitivity Analysis
Case I    Case 2    Case 3    Case4
Benefits                                                                     ......--.''' ''''''
Costs                                                       Constr.                                 VOC    Passeng.   Conges
Capital    Road                      VOC    Passelig.            Conges    Cost                          Net       Net     Time       -tion     Total
Constru  Nfaint. &                     Net    Timie  Generated   -tion    Savings   Reduced             Cash   Savings   Savings   Savings   Benefits
Year           -ction  Operation          Total   Savings  Sasings   Tiallic   Savings       1_2 Accidents   Total     Flow    (.50%)    (-50%)   (-50%)   (-20%)
1989           11799                       117.99                                                                     (117.99)  (117.99)  (117.99)  (117.99)  (117.99)
1990          523.92                       523 92                                                                     (523.92)  (523.92)  (523.92)  (523.92)  (523.92)
1991          497 45                       497.45                                                                     (497.45)  (497.45)  (497.45)  (497.45)  (497.45)
1992          938 67                       93867                                                                       (938.7)  (938.67)  (93867)  (938.67)   (938.7)
I993         1258.07                      1.25807                                                                     (1,258.1) (1,258.07) (1.258.07) (1,238.07)  (1,258.1)
1994          351U84   19919               55103   270.70      8006       7.01    33.78     0.00     20.10    411.65  (139.38)  (274.73)  (179.41)  (156.27)  (221.71)
1995          154.34   283.79              438.33   308.22     84.02      7.85    41.60    171.00    23.90    636.59   198.26     44.15    136.25    177.46     70.94
1996           15300   274.35              427.35   378.33    10274       9.63    49.18    228.00    29.19    797.07   369.72    180.56    318.35    345.13    210.31
1997          23438   27140                505.78   430.90    11602      10.94    56.54    171.00    30.60    816.00   310.22     94.77    252.21    281.95    147.02                 1
1998                   271.03              271.03   504.45    122.91     12.54    65.66    391.65    22.39   1,119.60   848.57    596.35    787.12    815.74    624.65
1999                   270.63              270.63   589.16    130.22     14.39    76.81    522.20    31.35   1,364.13  1,093.50    798.92   1,028.39  1,055.10    820.67
2000                   270.14              270.14   682.23    127.76     16 19    90.54    713.55    29.29   1,659.56  1,389.42   1,048.31   1,325.54   1,344.15   1,037.51
2001                   26967               269.67   795.57    135 37     1862   105.92    429.20     34.65   1,519.33  1,249.66    851.88   1,181.98   1,196.70    945.79
2002                   269 19              269.19   91827    14345       21.23   124 14   321.90     31.08   1,560.09  1,290.90    831.77   1,219.18   1,228.83    978.88
2003                   26871               268.71  1,034.30    15205     24.12   145.71     0.00     42.51   1.41869  1,149.98    622.83   1,073,96   1,077.13    866.24
2004                   26824               268.24  1,20727    161 19     27.36   171 32     000      29.71   1,596.85  1,328.61    724.98   1,248.02   1,242.95   1,009.24
2005                   379 17 1 1          379 17  1,380.75    17089     3103   201.77      0.00     57.17   1,841.61  1,462.44    772.06   1,376.99   1,361.55   1,094.12
2006                   378.69  1_I         37869  1,548.93    17987      34 57   23370      0.00     61.43   2,05850  1,679.81    905.35   1,589.88   1,562.96   1,268.11
2007                   26682               26682  1,707.63    189.33     3794   27123       0.00     6604   2,272 17 2,005.35   1,151.54   1,910.69   1,869.74   1,550.92
2008                   26635               26635  1,936 12    99 31      42 72   31548      0.00     71.02   2,564.65  2,298.30   1,330.24  2,198.65   2,140.56   1,785.37
2009                   26588               26588  2.10065    20984       4620   36782       000      76.41   2,800.92  2,535.04   1,484.72   2,430.12  2,351.13   1,974.86
2010                   265.42              265.42  2,44456    22091      53.30,  429.93    126.00    82.25   3,356.95  3,091.53   1,869.25  2,981.08  2,876.57   2,420.14
2011                   26475               264.75 2,706.61    23256      5877   52197    16800       88.65   3,776.56  3,511.81   2,158.51   3,395.53  3,250.83   2,756.50
2012                   264 49              264 49 2,998 27    244 84     64 86   637 91    126.00    95.60   4,167.48  3,902.99   2,403.86  3,780.57  3,584.04   3,069.49
2013                   26402               26402  3,323.17    25779      7162   78533       000    103.17   4,541.08  4,277.06  2,615.48   4,148.17  3,884.40  3,368.84
2014                   26402               264.02  3,68543    271 45     79 14   97461      000    III 40   5,122.03  4,85801   3,015.30  4,722.29  4,370.71   3,833.60
2015                   26402               26402  4,089.75    285.86     87 50  1,21.99     0.00    120.35   5,803.45  5,539.43  3,494.56  5,396.50  4,929.44  4,378.74
Total        4229.86                              ERR=                                                                  i9.1%     14.1%     18.3%     18.4%     16.0%
NPV (12%)                                                           2,689.8    676.0   2,394.3   2,3S2.0   1.401.3
First Yeasr Return (1994) =                                           9.7%
I1: hlajor resurfacing of expressway to be carried out over a two-year period.
I_2: The existing roads need to be upgraded when traffic reaches about 12,00 vehicles per day. The estimated upgrading cost would be Yuan 5.0 million per kls.



-44-                                       ANNEX 1
TABLE 6: FINANCIAL EVALUATION
(Y MILLION)
Base Case                                            Net            Sensitivity
Cash                    Revenue
Costs                                    Benefits                 Net     Flow     Total Operating (-10%)
Self-    Loan-        Total                     Total  Operat.  Loan         Net    Cash       Onl   Revenue  Costs  Operating
Year  financing   IBRD      Cost   Maint.  Total   Revenue  Costs  Repay.       Revenue   Flow     Equity  (-10%)  (+10%)  (+10o%)
(1)      (2)    (3=1+2)   (4)  (5=3+4)    (6)        (7)      (8)      (9=6-7-8)  (10)  (11=9-2-4)  (12)    (13)    (14)
1989     50.80     10.47    61.27           61.27                      045 /_I    -0.45   -61.72    -51.25  -61.72   -61.72   -61.72
1990    254.02    52.34    306.36          306.36                      3.31 I_1    -3.31  -309.67   -257.33 -309.67  -309.67  -309.67
1991    254.02    52.34    306.36          306.36                      6.81 / l    -6.81  -313.17   -260.83 -313.17  -313.17  -313.17
1992    508.05    104.70    612.75         612.75                     13.55 /_1   -13.55  -626.30   -521.60 -626.30  -626.30  -626.30
1993    762.06    157.04    919.10         919.10                     24.19 /_I   -24.19  -943.29   -786.25 -943.29  -943.29  -943.29
1994    254.02    52.34    306.36  111.40  417.76    183.00    59.00   25.00      99.00  -318.76   -266.42 -337.06  -324.66  -342.'96
1995    127.01    26.17    153.18  111.40  264.58    263.00   141.00   98.00      24.00  -240.58   -214.41 -266.88  -254.68  -280.98
1996    127.01    26.17    153.18  111.40  264.58    350.00   153.00   98.00      99.00  -165.58   -139.41 -200.58  -180.88  -215.88
1997    203.22    41.87    245.09  111.40  356.49    400.00   160.00   88.34      151.66  -204.83   -162.96 -244.83  -220.83  -260.83
1998                               111.40  111.40    444.01   167.68   90.05      186.28    74.88    74.88   30.48    58.11    13.71
1999                               111.40  111.40    493.80   176.06   91.12     226.62   115.22    115.22   65.84    97.61    48.23
2000                               111.40  111.40    569.47   185.74   93.26     290.47   179.07    179.07  122.12   160.50   103.55
2001                                111.40  111.40    638.02   195.96   95.41     346.65   235.25    235.25  171.45   215.66   151.116
2002                               111.40  111.40    714.89   206.74   97.55     410.60   299.20    299.20  227.71   278.53   207.04
2003                               111.40  111.40    801.09   218.11   99.70     483.28   371.88    371.88  291.78   350.07   269.956
2004                               111.40  111.40    897.77   230.11  101.84      565.82   454.42    454.42  364.64   431.41   341.6.3
2005                               222.80  222.80   1006.20   242.77  101.84     661.59   438.79    438.79  338.17   414.51   313.89
2006                               222.80  222.80   1120.98   256.12  101.84      763.02   540.22    540.22  428.12   514.61   402.51
2007                               111.40  111.40   1248.90   270.21  101.84      876.85   765.45    765.45  640.56   738.42   613.54
2008                               111.40  111.40   1391.44   285.07  101.84     1004.53   893.13    893.13  753.99   864.63   725.48
2009                               111.40  111.40   1550.31   300.75   50.92     1198.64  1087.24   1087.24  932.21  1057.16   902.13
2010                                111.40  111.40   1727.36   317.29    0.00    1410.07  1298.67   1298.67 1125.93  1266.94  1094.20
2011                               111.40  111.40   1924.70   334.74    0.00     1589.96  1478.56   1478.56 1286.09  1445.09  1252.62
2012                               111.40  111.40   2144.66   353.15    0.00     1791.51  1680.11   1680.11 1465.65  1644.80  1430.33
2013                               111.40  111.40   2389.85   372.57    0.00     2017.28  1905.88   1905.88 1666.89  1868.62  1629.64
Total  2540.21    523.44   3063.65 2450.80 5514.45         Financial Rate of Return =       8.8N%    10.1%    7.2%    8.4%     6.8%
Net Present Value (I2%) =      -653.3   -345.3  -933.9  -731.7  -1012.2
I: Represents interest on amount withdrawn from the Bank loan as wellas commitment charges on unwithdrawn balance of the loan.



-45 -                                   ANNEX 1
TABLE 7: FINANCIAL VOC SAVINGS vS TOLL RATES
(Y/km, 1997 current prices)
Small   Medium    Large      Small   Medium    Large    Tractor-
Distance Savings                       Car       Bus       Bus      Truck    Truck    Truck    Trailer
Section 1:
Qingdo-Weifang
North Road       Savings                 0.41     0.33      0.04       0.11     0.68      1.44      2.81
45.7 km        30% of Savings          0.14     0.11      0.01       0.04     0.23      0.48      0.94
South Road       Savings                 0.64     0.78      0.10      0.16      1.01      3.16      4.08
32.0 km        30% of Savings          0.21     0.26      0.03      0.05      0.34      1.05      1.36
Section 2:
Weifang-Zibo
North Road       Savings                 (0.54)   (1.61)    (0.13)    (0.07)   (0.92)    (8.66)    (0.38)
-29.1 km        30% of Savings         (0.18)   (0.54)    (0.04)    (0.02)   (0.31)    (2.89)    (0.13)
South Road       Savings                 0.80     2.42      0.39      0.11      1.45     15.07      0.83
-14.0 km        30% of Savings          0.27     0.81      0.13      0.04     0.48      5.02       0.28
Section 3:
Zibo-Jinan
North Road       Savings                 0.25     0.20      0.03      0.03      0.12      0.47      0.07
8.8 km        30% of Savings          0.08     0.07      0.01      0.01      0.04      0.16      0.02
South Road       Savings                 0.43     0.63      0.11      0.11      0.41      1.32      0.20
-6.3 km        30%ofSavings            0.14     0.21      0.04      0.04     0.14      0.44       0.07
Small    Medium    Large   Tractor-    Extra
Vehicless Vehicless Vehicless  Trailer    Large
Jinan-Qingdao Expressway 1997 Toll Charges
- Under 100 km                             0.32      0.40     0.48      0.72       1.12
- 100-200 km                               0.29      0.37     0.45      0.69       1.09
-over 200 km                               0.24      0.32     0.40      0.64       1.04
Average                              1    0.28       0.36     0.44      0.68       1.08
30% of VOC Savings (1997):
Section 1          100.00 km                                0.11      0.24     0.39       1.15
Section 2           98.00 km                                0.03      0.11     0.56       0.08
Section 3          120.30 km                                0.07      0.12     0.16       0.05
Average 30% of VOC Savings (1997):                     |    0.07      0.15     0.37       0.42
Ratios: 30% of VOC Savings / Toll rate
Section 1                                                   (1.34     0.59     0.82       1.60
Section 2                                                   0.09      0.30      1.23      0.11
Section 3                                                   0.23      0.31      0.36      0.07
Average 30% of VOC Savings                             !    0.22      0.40      0.80      0.59



- 46 -                    ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
Introduction
1.    The Shandong Provincial Highway Project was appraised in July 1988. A loan of
US$60.0 million and a credit of SDR 38.8 million (US$50.0 million equivalent) was
approved by the Board of Executive Directors on May 25, 1989. The Loan, Credit and
Project Agreements were signed on September 8, 1989, and the loan and credit were
declared effective on December 11, 1989. The original closing date for the loan and credit
accounts was to June 30, 1995, but such date was extended June 30, 1997. Each of the
tasks referred to in the SAR and the Credit, Loan and Project Agreements were
performed, and the execution of these tasks is formally evaluated in this report.
A. Project Description
2.    The major objective of the project was to assist the Shandong Provincial
Government in meeting the transport demand in the most important and congested
corridor in the province and to improve the management of the road network by
introducing modem planning and management techniques.
3.    The project consists of: (a) construction of 319 km, four-lane divided, access
controlled highway between Jinan, the capital of the province, and Qingdao, one of
China's major seaports; (b) consulting services for construction supervision and training;
(c) provision of specialized equipment and technical assistance for pavement evaluation,
and paved road strengthening; Road Data Bank; (e) provision of maintenance equipment;
(f) traffic monitoring, telecommunication and tolling systems; (g) staff training; and (h)
assistance in improving road safety.
B. Achievement of the Project Objectives
4.    The project achieved all major objectives for the various components as indicated
in the following: (a) 319 km of Jinan-Qingdao Highway Project, traffic monitoring,
telecommunication and tolling systems, as well as the service areas along the whole
route; (b) consulting services in construction supervision and training; (c) Pavement
Management System (PMS); (d) Road Data Bank (RDB); (e) equipment for central
laboratory and research; (f) equipment for highway maintenance; (g) staff training; and
(h) road safety. Although the objectives of the project were essentially achieved, the
implementation of the project was delayed and required the extension of the loan and
credit closing date.



- 47 -                    ANNEX2
C. Project Identification
5.    The Bank expressed interest in the Jinan-Qingdao Highway Project in September
1986, when a World Bank Mission visited Shandong Province to supervise the
rehabilitation of the Yan-Gao road, which was a component one of the first Highway
Project financed by the World Bank in China. The proposed project was first discussed in
November 1986 and approved by SPC, MOF and MOC shortly thereafter. A Bank's
mission identified the Jinan-Qingdao Project in February 1987. The formal appraisal was
conducted by the Bank in July 1988. The negotiations were held in April 1989 in
Washington DC. The Development Credit, Loan and Project agreements were signed on
September 8, 1989 and the loan and credit became effective on December 11, 1989.
6.    During the evaluation period, the Bank had many discussions with the Shandong
Provincial Transport Department (SPTD). After having appraised the project, the Bank
missions concluded that the project would be a good investment, and the Bank would like
to assist the Province and cooperate with SPTD in the implementation of the project. The
Bank's mission and SPTD reached an understanding on the Shandong Highway Project,
according to which: the project in addition to help meeting the road transport demand in
one of the most important corridors in China by financing the construction of a high-
capacity high-standard highway, would also support the Province's objectives of
increasing the cost effectiveness of the road transport subsector. Specific policy,
institutional and technological objectives would be the following: consultants services to
help train the SPTD staff in the supervision and quality control of the highway
construction, provision of equipment, material and technical assistance to strengthen
pavements, provision of equipment for improving road planning by setting up a
computerized road data bank and training of SPTD staff.
D. Project Planning and Design
7.    According to the planning targets in the SAR the project would help in: (a)
introduction of improved road planning techniques; (b) developing the methodology for
evaluating existing paved roads and estimating strengthening needs; (c) modernizing
design, construction and materials specifications and contract documents; (d) supporting
the province's move to competitive bidding for civil works and developing the
institutional capacity for the supervision of civil works construction; and (e) training of
staff.
8.    To accomplish these objectives, the project's scope includes the following: (a)
construction of a 319 km, four-lane divided, access controlled highway, connecting Jinan,
the capital of Shandong province, with Qingdao, one of the major ports of China; (b)
consultants services for construction supervision and training; (c) provision of specialized
equipment and expertise for pavement evaluation and strengthening paved roads; (d)
provision of research equipment for the Central Road Laboratory; (e) provision of
equipment to set up a computerized Road Data Bank to improve road planning; (f)
provision of equipment for traffic monitoring, telecommunications and toll systems; (g)



-48 -                     ANNEX2
provision of road maintenance equipment; (h) improving road safety; and (i) staff
training.
E.   Project Implementation
9.    Jinan-Qingdao Highway. The highway was divided into nine constructior
contracts. Contracts No. 1-8 were for civil works and Contract No. 9 was for traffic
monitoring, telecommunications and toll systems. The civil works construction of the
highway started section by section from December 1989 and completed by the end of
1993. The Contract No. 1 (16 km) at the Jinan terminal was awarded under Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB). A new airport was under construction about 16 km east of
Jinan and just south of the JQE, as it was expected to be completed and be in use in late
1989. The Contract No. 1 of JQE had to be completed at the same time so as to provide
access to the airport. As International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures would
delay the start of construction by several months, it was agreed that this first contract
would be awarded following LCB procedures. Contracts No. 2-8 were awarded following
ICB procedures. The whole length of the highway (319 km) was opened to the traffic on
December 8, 1993. The construction of all toll buildings, administration buildings,
maintenance depots and service areas along the highway started in early 1993 and was
completed in mid-1997. The Agreement of Contract No. 9 (traffic monitoring,
telecommunications and tolling systems) was signed on April 2, 1996. A Spanish
contractor was selected to carry out the works, following ICB procedures
10.   Consulting Services in Construction Supervision and Training. A Danish
consulting firm was engaged to carry out these services. The allocation for this
component in the SAR was US$1.30 million. The contract price was US$1.465 million.
The actual payment amounted to US$1.6547 million. The contract was completed along
with the civil works. The Consultant provided 124 person-months of consulting services,
including supervision training of local technical personnel.
11.   Pavement Evaluation and Strengthening. Shandong Provincial Transport
Department and Finnish National Road Administration implemented this work with the
cooperation of the Jining District, which was selected for this pilot project. The work was
completed on three national roads and five provincial roads with a total length of 560 km.
Then the system was converted to the standard Chinese PMS format (CPMS). The system
was introduced and is operational in all 17 prefectures/ municipals, and covers the full
length of the 17,000 km paved road network of the Province.
12.   Road Data Bank. The developing of Road Data Bank is a complex system with
extensive technology and complicated structure. Ministry of Communications made the
unified planning for the development of RDB for the whole country. The components,
structure, model and hardware should be standard in accordance with MOC's nationwide
program. SPTD made a series of documents, such as specifications, coding and data
dictionary through the pilot prefecture development. The equipment procured for RDB



- 49 -                    ANNEX2
are as follows: (a) sideways force coefficient measuring vehicle and (b) GPS system
instrumentation.
13.   Provision of Road Maintenance Equipment. The allocation for this component
in the SAR is US$2.97 million. The Bank approved the reallocation of loan/ credit
proceeds for this component to be US$6.10 million. The procurement for all maintenance
equipment as completed by mid 1997. The main reasons for the differences are that the
price of equipment has clhanged a lot with time, and some necessary equipment was
added after advice was obtained from foreign and local experts.
14.   Provision of Research Equipment for the Central Road Laboratory. The
allocated cost was US$0.60 million. The actual cost amounted to US$0.485 million. A
skid-resistance test vehicle that was listed in the SAR was not acquired because the
equipment available at the time of the procurement did not meet the required
specifications. The following equipment has been procured: (a) 19 Nuclear Densitometer;
(b) 7 Automatic Bitumen Elevator; (c) 7 Bitumen Content Testing Equipment;(d) 5
Pavement Core Sampling Machines; and (e) Fittings.
15.   Traffic Monitoring, Telecommunication and Toll Systems (Contract No. 9).
The International Bidding Documents of Contract No. 9 were prepared by the Highway
Research Institute of MOC, and reviewed by the Employer. The Bidding Documents
were issued on March 21, 1995. The bids were opened on May 24, 1995. Thirteen bids
were received from nine countries. The final evaluation report was submitted to the
National Review Committee on September 21, 1995 and approved by the Committee, and
submitted to the World Bank on December 11, 1995. The World Bank approved on
March 11, 1996 that the contract be awarded to a Spanish firm at a contract amount of
US$9,770,334 and Y 42,891,225. The contract was signed on April 2, 1996. The
estimated cost in the SAR is US$6.15 million, but it covered the cost of equipment only
and did not include the cost of installation of the systems. The installation of equipment
for the three systems was completed by the end of May 1997 except for lane monitors and
printers. The commissioning of the systems was completed at the end of June 1997 and
trial operations started from first of July 1997.
16.   Staff Training. The total training program involved training 37 persons for 150
person months at an estimated cost of US$0.90 million, according to the SAR. Training
programs as executed included 112.1 person-months and 89 persons at a cost of
US$0.915 million. Training courses were conducted as follows: (a) in July 1991, on
project management for 6 persons over one month in England; (b) in 1991 and 1992, on
highway design for 11 persons involving 28 person-months was conducted in England;
(c) in 1991, on highway planning for 10 persons involving 15 person-months in the
United States; on equipment management for 2 person involving 2 person-months in
Germany and France; on financial management for 6 persons involving 4.8 person-
months in Thailand; and on highway maintenance for 4 persons involving 2.6 person-
months in France and Italy; (d) in 1992, on pavement management for 6 persons
involving 4.8 person-months in Canada; (e) in 1993, on highway and bridge construction



-50-                      ANNEX2
for 6 persons involving 4.8 person-months, on traffic engineering for 5 persons involving
5 person-months in Spain, and on Road Data Bank for 7 persons involving 10.5 person-
months in the United States; (f) in 1994, on highway organization for 5 persons involving
5 person-months in Italy; (g) in 1995, on financial management for 5 persons involving
3.5 person-months in France, Italy and Switzerland; (h) in 1996 on expressway
administration for 2 persons involving 1.33 person-months in United States, and on
highway maintenance in Germany and France; and (i) in 1997, on traffic engineering for
9 persons involving 9 person-months in the United States. The cost overrun was only
about US$15,000. It was related to the inflation and higher consultant services fees.
17.   Road Safety. A UK based consulting firm provided 45 days of services for this
programn. The contract was signed on February 17, 1997. During a four week visit in
China the consultant had discussions with the representatives of JQEMB and Traffic
Police, visited all sections of JQE and reviewed traffic data and black stops. The draft
final report, including the recommendations of the consultant was submitted to JQEMB
in March 1997. It has been updated following its review by a World Bank Mission and
sections had been added on road safety objectives, a program for improvements, cost
estimates and equipment specifications. For equipment procurement, international
shopping was adopted. The bids were issued on May 1, 1997. The contract was awarded
to Shandong Expressway Developing Company. The equipment for the program was
delivered at the end of June 1997. Based on original program in SAR, the objective of
Shandong Road Safety Program was to apply the experience of Sichuan Province pilot
study in collecting and analyzing traffic data and identifying black spots on the Xindiang-
Tongyin (76 km) and Weifang-Wulian (124 km) road sections of Shandong provincial
road network. SPTD wanted to cancel this component for special reasons but then SPTD
expressed the intention to conduct this safety program on JQE, the World Bank agreed to
this alternative.
F. Operation Experience
18.   The operation conditions of the JQE and other project components of the
Shandong Provincial Highway Project are basically good.
19.   Jinan-Qingdao Expressway The expressway was opened to traffic in December
1993. The condition of the expressway remained very good during four years of
operations. The Average Daily Traffic (ADT ) is now reached about 15,600 vehicles,
which is more than predicted in the SAR. The toll collection reached Y 350 million in
1996. The toll rates are being adjusted in three-year intervals according to the price index
from the previous year. The JQE has great economic and social benefits and has been
very beneficial to the Province and to the areas along its alignment. It became the
"economic corridor" of Shandong Province and brought about a great advance in
industrial and agricultural development. The Jinan-Qingdao Expressway Management
Bureau (JQEMB) was set up in December 1993 when the JQE was opened to the traffic.
JQEMB is an administrative unit of SPTD. It is responsible for the operation and
maintenance of JQE. A new Expressway from Weifang to Laiyang is under construction.



-51-                      ANNEX2
The JQEMB it is also in charge of the management of this Expressway. The Road
Administration Bureau of SPTD is in charge of the provincial road network.
20.   Traffic Monitoring, Telecommunication and Tolling System. There was a
good team supervising the works during construction. The project quality and progress
were ensured. The payment was based on the terms of payment as specified in the
standard contract documents of the World Bank, and Bank procedures were followed.
The main lesson learned is that the Contractor did not mobilize enough manpower and
material resources, which caused implementation delay.
21.   Pavement Management System ( PMS ). After the successful completion of the
pilot program the data collection and analysis have been extended to cover all national
roads in the province. SPTD issued two documents: "Temporary Provisions for using
PMS in Shandong Province" and "Management Provisions for short-, medium-, and long-
term Road Maintenance in Shandong Province" in order to make the most of the PMS
program and improve road maintenance level.
G. Work by Contractor and Consultant
22.   JQE was built under contracts awarded through competitive bidding. The JQE
was divided into 9 contracts. Contract No. 1-8 were for civil works: (a) Contract No. 1,
16 km, was built under LCB procedures, Contractor: Shandong Transport Engineering
Company (joint venture); (b) Contract No. 2, 35.2 km, Contractor: 14th Engineering
Bureau of Ministry of Railways; (MOR) (c) Contract No. 3, 25.4 km, Contractor: Beijing
Municipal Engineering Co. (joint venture); (d) Contract No. 4, 54.1 km, Contractor: 20th
Engineering Bureau of MOR; (e) Contract No. 5, 41.4 km, Contractor: First Highway
Bureau of Ministry of Communications; (f) Contract No. 6, 46.6 km, Contractor: China
Metallurgical Construction Co.; (g) Contract No. 7, 47.6 km, Contractor: 4th Engineering
Bureau of MOR; and (h) Contract No. 8, 47.6 km, Contractor: Beijing City Construction
Co.
23.   The contract periods were: 36 months for Contract No. 1 and No. 7-8 and 40
months for Contracts No. 2-6. Contract No. 9 covered the supply and installation of
traffic monitoring, telecommunications and tolling systems. The contract was awarded to
a Spanish company and the contract period was 9 months. The major quantities for civil
works performed by the contractor were: 29.8 million cubic meter of earthworks, 4
special major bridges, 15 major bridges, 118 small bridges, 450 underpasses, 726
culverts, 21 interchanges, 45 grade separations and 6.594 million square m of pavement.
The quality and operation conditions of the JQE are good.
24.   Work by Consultant The consultants (Denmark) mobilized 5 persons and
assisted local technical staff to supervise the construction of the highway over a three-
year period. The consultant's engineers were involved in all aspects of supervision work.
They were working closely with local engineers and contractors to improve job
organization and management. The consultant provided 124 person-months of services on
construction supervision and training. World Bank officials expressed their satisfaction



- 52 -                    ANNEX2
with the work of the consultant when they supervised the project. JQE was also praised
by MOC and the Shandong Provincial Government.
25.   Work by Supervision Engineer. Jinan-Qingdao Expressway was contracted
following International Competitive Bidding procedures. The supervision engineers
controlled quality, duration of contracts and payments for works in accordance with the
clauses, supervision procedures and methods of the "FIDIC" conditions of contract. To
guarantee the work quality, the engineers implemented an overall supervision system of
tasks "before, during and after construction." The construction was not allowed to start
until materials and equipment were tested and found satisfactory. The spot-checking and
inspection of ongoing works method adopted during construction were such that every
aspect of the construction was tested or inspected for quality. No payments were made for
completed works if the quality was unacceptable after checking. In this way, the work
quality and investment were efficiently controlled.
26.   Experience We have gained much experience through implementation of the
Jinan-Qingdao Expressway. The main experience is: (a) setting up rigid supervision
procedures to enforce construction supervision as an effective method to ensure works
quality, progress, investment control and satisfactory level for the management of works;
(b) helping contractors to improve their work abilities based on the conditions of contract
and technical specifications before each work item were to start was a foundation to
improve work progress and reach quality standard at the same time; (c) strengthening site
control, that is, the supervision engineers should be on-site and supervise each key phase
of the procedures since checking and inspection of works are the guarantee to reach the
quality required; (d) insisting to do pilot work before the start of each new construction
item was an effective method to meet quality requirements; (e) the Employer was an
organization center for implementation to control quality, progress and investment
through coordinating relationship with each of the units involved; and (f) consciously
accepting the instructions of the World Bank and actively cooperating were the guarantee
to successfully complete the project.
H. Works by the Executive Division
27.   Project Preparation. SPTD made a thorough preparation of the JQE. The
feasibility study report was completed in October of 1985. The task-planning document
was approved in January of 1988. The Jinan-Qingdao highway project was listed as one
of the major projects in China by the State Planning Commission in 1990. The design of
the Jinan-Qingdao highway was prepared by the MOC's First Survey and Design
Institute from Xian, the MOC's Highway Planning and Design Institute and Shandong
Provincial Highway Design Institute. The joint venture of China Highway Engineering
Consultants and Louis Berger International (LBI), United States, assisted in the
completion of the design and in the preparation of Bid Documents. LBI's services were
financed by the United States under its Trade Development Program. The project
approval, preappraisal, appraisal and negotiations were completed between September



- 53 -                    ANNEX2
1986 and April of 1989. The project was approved by the Executive Directors of the
World Bank on May 25, 1989 and became effective on December 11 of 1989.
28.   Project Implementation. To implement the Jinan-Qingdao highway component
of the project, the Shandong Provincial Government established a Construction
Headquarters while SPTD established a Construction Headquarters Office in November
1986. The Headquarters Office was responsible for the bidding, management,
coordination, land acquisition and resettlement, planning and financial management,
building materials supply, etc.
29.   The Highway Administration Bureau of SPTD  was responsible for the
implementation of Pavement Evaluation and Strengthening and Road Data Bank
component of the project. The Jining Division was selected to do carry out the pilot
works.
30.   Experience-Jinan-Qingdao Highway. The Employer took the FIDIC condition
of contract clauses as the basis of administering the implementation and ensure the
progress and the quality of works. The experience had been that when the Employer paid
attention to quality control good results were achieved. Attention was paid in particular to
the following four areas of the works: (a) expansion joints of bridges; (b) pavements; (c)
compaction of subgrade; and (d) backfilling of abutments.
1. Major Factors Affecting the Project
31.   Jinan-Qingdao Highway. The civil works of JQE were completed on time
according to the contracts but the traffic engineering (traffic monitoring,
telecommunications, and tolling systems) was started only after the highway was opened
to traffic at the end of 1993. The implementation agency did not pay great attention to
traffic engineering because the leaders were busy with civil works, and had different
views about when the traffic engineering works should commence. Also, initially no
specific unit was set up to organize and coordinate the traffic engineering works.
Consequently, the implementation of this component was delayed and it was necessary to
request the extension of the loan and credit closing dates.
J. Work by the World Bank
32.   Project Preparation. The World Bank started to work on Shandong Highway
Project in August 1986. A Bank mission reviewed the feasibility study report, which was
prepared by SPTD. The Bank sent six more missions to investigate the technical,
institutional and economic aspects and complete the appraisal of the project. The SAR
described the scope, economic benefits and the organizational arrangements for the
implementation of the project. During the project preparation and implementation, the
Bank staff provided a lot of assistance to the Implementation Agency.
33.   Project Implementation. Bank missions visited Shandong Province many times
to supervise the project during implementation and provided lots of practical suggestions



- 54 -                    ANNEX2
on quality, financial management and institutional matters. With the Bank's assistance a
joint foreign/local supervision unit was set up to supervise civil works construction. Such
arrangement not only ensured the quality of works but also helped the training of local
staff.
34.   Cooperation between the Executive Agency and the World Bank. The
cooperation of the World Bank and the project Executive Agency was good. The World
Bank officers had full understanding of the transport infrastructure development needs
and were helpful in providing support to the Province. In recognition of the situation, the
World Bank agreed to extend the closing date for the loan and credit. Shandong
Provincial Governient and SPTD would like to express heartfelt thanks to the World
Bank for its cooperation and support, and hope to have further opportunity to get the
Bank's assistance and the chance for even better cooperation.
35.   Experience. The major benefits have been: (a) through World Bank-financed
highway project the FIDIC clauses of the conditions of contract have been widely
adopted in Shandong Province for highway construction works since this system is very
advantageous and effective; (b) through the training of personnel, a batch of professionals
were trained on highway management, highway design and planning, finance
management, highway maintenance and traffic engineering. These people were well
trained, and broadened and made full use of their knowledge during project
implementation and they played important roles in their work; (c) on Road Data Bank
and Pavement Management System, the two components promoted the Shandong
highway management system and staff learned a lot about gaining new technology and
got much experience through the implementation of this project component.
K. Operation Planning
36.   Comments on Future Operation Planning:
(a)   Jinan-Qingdao Highway. The design of some section is conservative. For the
Weifang Qingdao section, the width of designed subgrade is 23 m, the median
divider is only 2.5 m, the shoulders are 2x2-.75 m wide. This design does not meet
the operational requirements and the foundation needs to be widened. In fact, it
would be very difficult to widen because the layout design of overpasses,
interchanges, toll stations and service areas did not consider the additional land
requirements. On the other hand, the traffic of JQE is higher than the SAR
estimates and has 3-5% of growth rate per year. SPTD plans to build a new
expressway from Jinan to Qingdao south of existing JQE around the year 2010
and before the traffic of JQE reaches saturation. Also, SPTD would like to
transfer 60% of operations rights (tolling rights) of JQE to China Merchants
Holding Co. of Hong Kong. The transfer would be for 24 years. A new company
(Joint Venture) would be set up to operate, maintain and manage JQE during the
period of transfer.



- 55 -                    ANNEX2
(b)   Pavement Management System. CPMS has actually been used in Shandong
province, but with different level of use in different areas. It is necessary to make
further improvements in the level of usage as follows: (1) improving and
perfecting the system itself; (2) improving the methods or ways of policy-making
and management. The study program on the "Second Stage Development of
CPMS," which is being jointly conducted by SPTD and the Highway Scientific
Research Institute of MOC, will be completed soon. The study will modify the
original cost model, deterioration model and policy model through a large number
of data and perfect the functions of network level and project level systems,
expand the content of pavement data bank and change the system operation
environment into Windows. It is expected that the new system of CPMS 3 will
replace the existing version in 1998. Without doubt, CPMS 3 will be easier to
operate and will be more effective.
(c)   Road Data Bank. SPTD is planning to develop the provincial level RDB based
on computer network working platform. It is planned that RDB will be built up
and operational in the whole Province before 1999.
(d)   Supervision and Implementation Indicators for the JQE. The indicators by
which the Expressway's performance can be monitored and evaluated in the
future are: Internal Rate of Return, Economic Net Present Value, Pay Period,
Dynamic Payoff Period, Net Benefit Values, Traffic Volume, Generated Traffic
Growth Rate, Traffic Accidents, Average Annual Maintenance Fee and Overhead
,as well as Tolling Rate and Tolling Revenue.






57-                       ANNEX3
ANNEX 3: APRIL 1997 SUPERVISION MISSION'S
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank supervision mission composed of Messrs. Hatim Hajj, Han-Kang
Yen and Ms. Xin Chen supervised the Shandong Provincial Highway Project during
April 7-11, 1997. It met with representatives of the Shandong Provincial Transport
Department (SPTD), Jinan-Qingdao Expressway Management Bureau (JQEMB), Sainco
Trafico, the contractor for Contract No. 9 (traffic engineering for the Jinan-Qingdao
Expressway-JQE) and its subcontractors and the Supervision team for Contract No. 9.
This Aide Memoire (AM) records the major points of discussion and understanding
reached and is subject to management approval. The list of participants is shown as
Annex 1 and the documents received are listed in Annex 2. The mission would like to
thank SPTD and JQEMB for their hospitality and cooperation and the excellent
arrangements for the mission's visit to JQE.
REMAINING WORKS
2.    All project components have been completed except for the: (a) traffic
engineering (Contract No. 9) for JQE; (b) a hotel in the service area of Qingdao: (c)
procurement of equipment for the Road Data Bank (RDB), and some additional
maintenance equipment; (d) 9 person-months of training; and (e) safety component.
Jinan-Qingdao Expressway
3.    JQE was opened to traffic on December 18. 1993. The quality of the completed
works is reasonable and it seems that JQE is being well maintained and operated as a toll
road. Presently, the toll traffic is around 16,900 vehicles per day (vpd) near Jinan,
13,800 vpd between Jinan and Weifang and 14,600 vpd between Weifang and Qingdao.
Toll collections increased from Y 183 million in 1994 to Y 263 million in 1995, Y 350
million in 1996, and Y 83 million for the first quarter of 1997. SPTD/JQEMB have
invited a panel of experts to review the contributions/benefits of JQE and found it to have
been very beneficial to the Province and to the areas along its alignment. A copy of the
panel's report was received by the Bank in November 1996.
4.    Toll Buildings, Administration Buildings, Maintenance Depots and Service
Areas for JQE. All these buildings and facilities have been completed except for a hotel
in the service area at Qingdao. This is expected to be completed before the end of June
1997. The quality of these buildings and their facilities is considered to be very good.
5.    Traffic Engineering for JQE. The contract for these works (tolling, monitoring
and telecommunications) was signed on April 2, 1996 with Sainco Trafico of Spain, and



- 58 -                    ANNEX3
the hardware design was conducted in Jinan during May 10-16, 1996. The software
design was reviewed in Spain during August 6-22, 1996. The implementation of this
contract is smooth. Laying of metal and optical fiber cables has been completed.
Installation of equipment is almost complete and is expected to be finished by the end of
April 1997. About 22 engineers/technicians from the contractor are expected to arrive in
China around the middle of April to speed up the works including software installation
and testing and commissioning. It is expected that commissioning will be completed by
the end of June 1997. This will be followed by a 6-month trial operation (July 1-
December 31, 1997) and a one-year warranty (January 1 -December 31, 1998). Not all due
payments to the contractor have so far been fully made. It was agreed that any payments
to be made to contractor after commissioning could be released against a nonconditional
Bank guarantee that fully protects the interests of the Employer.
6.   In a meeting on April 9, 1997 attended by the Employer, the Contractor and his
subcontractors, the Supervision Team, and the Bank, it was agreed that:
(1)   The Employer would speed up payments to the Contractor,. especially those in
local currency;
(2)   The Contractor would, by April 14, submit to the Employer a revised realistic
implementation program to complete Contract No. 9 and a copy of this program
signed by the Employer/Supervision and the Contractor would, by April 18, 1997,
be submitted to the Bank's Resident Mission.
(3)   The Contractor will do his best to complete one center/subcenter to meet the
requirements of the Employer with regard to the visit by senior leaders from
SPTD and other Provincial agencies to JQE during the first half of May 1997.
(4)   The Contractor and the Employer would, by June 15, 1997, reach agreement on
the numbers of staff by specialty and spare parts and tools that the Contractor has
to provide during the trial period to minimize down time of the system(s).
(5)   The Employer would, by April 29, 1997, submit to the Bank (RMC) a revised
cost estimate of Contract No. 9 showing costs according to the contract, costs of
variation orders (additions. deletions, modifications), estimated costs for claims if
any, and costs of likely additional works. Also, the Employer would, at the same
time, submit a report showing the justification for the additional works, their order
of priorities, as well as the time program to implement these works. On the basis
of this information and the revised project cost estimate (to be submitted to the
Bank-RMC by April 29, 1997), a decision would be made on whether it is
possible for the Bank loan to finance these additional works (in whole or part).
7.    Supervision of Traffic Engineering for JQE. The Bank representatives found
that the organizational chart for supervision of Contract No. 9 for JQE as well as the
staffing and the key staff to be adequate. The performance of the supervision team is
considered reasonable.



- 59 -                    ANNEX3
Equipment
8.    All the equipment for the project has been procured and delivered except for two
pieces of maintenance equipment and equipment for the Road Data Bank (RDB).
Contracts for the remaining maintenance equipment have been signed and the equipment
is expected to be delivered by May 15, 1997. Contracts for the RDB equipment have also
been signed and the equipment will be delivered during May 31-June 15, 1997.
Training
9.    All training under the project has been implemented except for 9 person-months
in traffic engineering. A contract for this training has been signed with Louis Berger
International. Arrangements are presently being made for completion of selection of
trainees and their travel to the United States. The training is expected to be completed
before June 30, 1997. Because of the tightness of the schedule, the Bank mission
emphasized the need to speed up the procedures and to ensure that a qualified interpreter
accompanies the trainees to the United States.
Safety
10.   A contract with Ross Silcock, Ltd. (LTK) was signed to provide two person-
months of services of a qualified traffic safety specialist to study the traffic accident
situation along JQE. Accordingly, Mr. Mike Goodge visited Shandong for a month
during February/March 1997 and submitted a rough draft report on his findings on
March 22, 1997. The mission reviewed this report with representatives of JQEMB. It was
agreed that the submitted report cannot be considered as a draft final report and that Ross
Silcock will have to submit a proper draft report as soon as possible for review and
comment by JQEMB and the Bank. Also, the report should include a statement of safety
targets, a defined program of improvements, approximate cost, and order of priorities.
Safety equipment needs (in the amount of about $60,000) were reviewed and it was
agreed that these equipment would in principle consist of those for protection of road
works and accident sites. Mr. Goodge's revised report would have to include a well
defined list of these equipment and their specifications as well as their approximate cost
and procurement schedule. The Bank would have no objection to the purchase of such
equipment through international shopping provided that they can be delivered by the
closing date of the loan (June 30, 1997).
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
11.   The mission reviewed the draft cost estimate prepared by JQEMB/SPTD for the
project and found that it requires further detailing and explanation of how it was
determined. Also, comparisons should be made with the cost estimate in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) and the reasons for the main differences between the two
estimates should be adequately explained. It was agreed that SPTD would prepare a
revised report on the project cost estimate (by component) and deliver it to the Bank



- 60 -                     ANNEX3
(RMC) by April 29, 1997. This report would be discussed in a meeting to be held in
Beijing by May 2, 1997.
REPORTING
12.   It was agreed that a combined summary report for the months of March and April
1997 would be faxed to the Bank by May 10, 1997. This report should summarize
progress during the reporting period and percent complete; payments to contractor and
summary of variation orders and claims, if any; problems faced and proposed solutions;
major changes to cost estimate or to completion time; and major activities planned for the
following month. Succeeding monthly reports would be submitted within 10 days of the
end of the month. The progress report for the first quarter of 1997 is to be submitted to
the Bank by April 30, 1997. Succeeding quarterly reports would be submitted within a
month of the end of the quarter. Furthermore, the audit report for 1996 should be
delivered to the Bank by June 30, 1997.
PLANS FOR SALE OF JQE
13.   SPTD/JQEMB raised with the mission their plans to sell 60% of JQE to China
Merchants Holdings Company of Hong Kong and to offer the remaining 40% as B-shares
on either the Shanghai or Shenzhen Stock Exchanges. JQE was valued by China
Accounting Office at Y 5.182 billion. This assessment has been accepted by the Hong
Kong Company. SPTD intends to use the proceeds to finance new expressways in the
Province. SPTD and Shandong Province will be responsible for repaying the Bank loan/
credit and not the new company to be set up for JQE.
14.   The proposed sale is expected to be submitted by the end of April 1997 to SPC,
MOC and MOF. SPTD hopes to get the required approvals including that from SETC by
the end of July 1997. A feasibility study is being undertaken by local firms to form the
basis for the prospectus for the shares offering (40% of value of JQE). Approval from
MOF, MOC, SPC and the State Stock Exchange Supervision Management Committee.
will be sought. The last agency would also decide the size of the stock offering. SPTD
wants Bank approval of these plans. Consequently. it was agreed that SPTD would, as
soon as possible, submit to the Bank a brief report explaining its intentions and plans,
status of implementation of these plans. and time schedule and asking for Bank,
requirements for documentation in this regard.
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
15.  In accordance with the agreements reached during the November 1996
supervision mission, the Bank on March 17, 1997 received the draft implementation
completion report prepared by SPTD. The Bank faxed its comments on this report to
SPTD/JQEMB on March 18, 1997 and a prelimirary report on economic and financial
evaluation of the project on March 31, 1997. These comments and report were discussed
with representatives of SPTD/JQEMB. It was agreed that:



-61-                       ANNEX3
(1)   The cost estimate for the project by component (two tables-in the first cost is
expressed in Yuan and in US dollars in the second table) and its comparison with
the SAR and explanation of the reasons for major differences would be delivered
to the Bank (RMC) on April 29, 1997 (see para. 11).
(2)   The cost estimate (broken down into local-yuan-and foreign-US dollars-
components) for JQE by year (1989-1997) and for each of the three sections
(Qingdao-Weifang, Weifang-Zibo and Zibo-Jinan) would be delivered to the
Bank (Washington, DC) by May 31, 1997;
(3)   SPTD/JQEMB would submit its revised draft ICR to the Bank by May 31, 1997.
(4)   On the basis of the ICR report by SPTD/JQEMB and the above requested data as
well as the information collected by the mission, the Bank would prepare the draft
ICR and submit it to SPTD/JQEMB for review and comment by June 30, 1997;
(5)   SPTD/JQEMB would submit its comments on the draft ICR to the Bank by
July 31, 1997.
(6)   The final ICR would be submitted to the Bank's Board of Directors by
December 31, 1997.
(7)   In order to meet the above-mentioned schedule, it is essential that JQEMB is
strengthened by qualified manpower.
NEXT STEPS
16.  It was agreed that the following documents/reports would be submitted to the
Bank:
(a)   By April 18, 1997: A signed copy of the revised implementation program for
Contract No. 9 (para. 6).
(b)   By April 29, 1997: (i) Revised cost estimate of Contract No. 9 (para. 6), and (ii)
Report on revised project cost estimate (para. 11).
(c)   By April 30, 1997: Project Progress Report for the first quarter of 1997 (para. 12).
(d)   By May 10, 1997: Summary Progress Report for Contract No. 9 for the months of
March and April 1997 (para. 12).
(e)   By May 31, 1997: Cost estimate for JQE by each of its three sections (para. 15).
(f)   Undated, but preferably by April 30. 1997: A report on sale of 60% of JQE to a
Hong Kong company and offering of stocks for the remaining 40% (para. 13).
(signed)                             (signed)
Hatim Hajj                           Zhang Junren
Principal Transport Specialist       Deputy Director, JQEMB
Jinan, April 11, 1997
Note: The original copy of the Aide Memoire with Annexes 1 and 2 thereto is in the
Project File.



IBRD 21119
ALGERIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT                                                                                      M e dci t e r r a n e a n                  S e a
PROJET DE RECHERCHE ET DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE                                                                                                                                                                           , A-nabau    ,Tt
LOCATION OF EXTENSION ACTIVITIES                                                             ALIERS                      J       A\                                                           SkikrJa   SANABA /El T
SITES DES ACTIVITIES DE VULGARISATION                                                           ALCIERS                            Z I                              JiJ'l        \       S K I K  A                  ElARF
IT~~~. Oo~~~F'R ~~JIJEL                                                      EL_TARF
tW   }-b (3Chlel \;iSAIi,f X f~ii  4Xlp  MrE  A   (  J   BORDJ BOU   g 5 E T I F/'\                              - An        o            _   J
2.   O Ro~Roio+T A N'Ch.So, r-                                                                                                           El BUD  L $Khenhb  \
AinTemouchnt  AIN  . --?  MASCARA  -l_j                         )~T ) P'   ---.St                                                                                       <F                   j         eesG 
TEMOt)~~~~~~~C H    ENTF ?ANSffidnoBe                                                                ROIR                                      IF         M:sLAr -'Tir e  /    )~j              SKaHRA
--  ~~~. .-    >Abces  \      )               ~       ~       ~              -                     .                          t                 f        (             j   ICHENCHELA   J                         !o    -
w.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Di P-hiiEmCE                                                                                !a_..  m         , >  ," '     EES
h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E j. Am                                                                 R A E\- S  Swi AM     Def                 I          L KA                     0,
j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                    ~~~~ H- L,f E F  0                                               SOI AHRA
SORDJ BOU                       AEU
TS~~SR(   '1  0ChIef \WA     n o          RomV,lO                             Kj~, 
ME~~~~~EA   '..                 ~~~~~~DBoidj Bo.    S E TI FWMLil
Mo0ogon-    \Y                                                                                                                                              O- El Ra . ghi      \
\.~~~~~~7    )RELIZANE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"  _ ~~~~A AR RER) DJ                                           r-xj                          (g
d,                                                                                                                                              OUM N A    L H TELQ BOAGNI'
O-o                       RELIZAN               TI55EMSILT                      (' .       'Ml~o
0 R A N                        eine           ,.,-Tn,It)                                 .) '                                                                                                         >
Aio T-kn,,ooho   AIN   ')         MSAA                    -IAKIToNohA
MUiSid, B', _.                                                         C                                    S ETA O TRAININ CT\
AbI6      /    \--KH EXTENSIO D                                                                                                               C                          KAR5ENCHELA         o M
TLEMCEN                         -,  )                                                                                                                                                                                            A A   RE   A5 DCA T  -  /  EBS
TIc              S          -                    SG DG IS                           ,Biskoaioa                                                      RNIREDSAIA                         2'                                            5
I-D~~ - 5
S.'~~~~~~~~~~ SILC!!id
ABBES           SAIDA -K. (                                                           '-Dief                                              I   S KR  A
LOgh-wC                                                                                   UE
/             ~~~~El Byodh 
NAAMA  '-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l,  __                                                K                                   EL ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           ALGIERS
I                                       -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CFV EXTENS ON TRAINING CENTERS
*N.-,,  ,I        E L    B A YA DH                      7         CFV CENTRE GE FORMATION ET DE VUJLGARI5ATION AGRICOLE
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~EXTENSION DIARATE:                                                              WILAYA HEADQUARTERSS.
DIARATE DE FORMATION ET DE VULGARISATION AGRICOLE;      SIEGES DES WTAYA
D        Defo Wiloy-                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL                     -
DAJRATE BOUNDARIES                                                              19G'
0~~  510  100         1 50                   11--~ oo, Wil.y.                                   FRONIIERES DES DAIRATE                   1
KILOMETERS                         coco~~~~~~~Md. Wil.y.                            WILAYA BOUNDARIES                             "
Rechar                      /       c~~~~~~~~~~~A,o.h -,fl.p,-d Thc,o .  oo.,oi.                   as W                                            FRONTIERES DES WSAYA.7                                                         7
od,,   f--,.sopoo,rpo.atoS.C,I&k,                                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
E C  H   AR                                                                                             T;. O,-o WiIo                                     FRONRTERES INTERNATTONAIES                                    -, -,
AUG,UST 1989



IBRD 20256R1
.r~~~~~~~~.2  16             nW                                 ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          ,*                                -~~~~~~~~~1                       1Ql't2O
-~ --;59    8                 HEBEI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
H* ,' U I M                      e,r                                                                       _
t  b  E  <               4    v                       g       s                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nfetchomge odd Z. 
(   4_   (t  ~/   ;}p54hng > \Huley  /   o~     N {gs IunmniAl/<.y   ?t                         dyng constuctiol rty<ng cRu nstruct
115     A~~~~~~~~~~~i 
g W / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cl-IINA
AL It 1X  EGso'y-H 1E_'-< N, '                                                                                                                                                                       >.,',Zn2u SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY
37~        /<           ' 90w     .     f_l-> F 7,-aa . -t4 ..........................................  -,,,,l ....                                                                                                                                           O e A  N f  i  Transport N etw ork
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5   .~~~~~~~~~~~  31609  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ogPOP SDPR JCT,-
H                        EN  A  N  /, e - '" ""'t';, _,  'T-                  Z          ',                                                                                                                                 -  i gd- *.E.p.
T~~~~~~~ ,/   OPk/onr                                                /                                                                                     <_    ,-    xn    0                                                      Transp;1, ort  Netwoark
>                                     t                                                                    _/                     O D            9t p \                                                                                 2~ ~ ~ yz /<  \ 0  0  0  0 >~4/tI z hilang PO PROPOS    PECTSr-gthirg Prlgr
7~~~~~~~~~~~~7-1 0or'                                                                                                                                                                                                                lN-tn Ongdo S-thResdoo
-            / -_                     i             TA    I'Angwu  N5   f  ,   >   zff     t   _ _           ,           |  1v nshu            /                                                                                _   _  Prowin- R        -.d.
Th.~~~~~~                           ~~~ \ord/o  '73-2l-                           I                                                                                                                           -A                                                   Str.ng h.n25gSProgram
HENAN   .                      HENAN ft                   >    jr'U                                                                                                                                                                           Sd  Rood.
H~ig(oc1   E   ZAE          PoJenoO _                                        _  
ShgPl Oil Field
B-ra      d-In.  Bounarie
1"5     ZAOZHLJANG                                                               -i-7  Lutoongeng \^  13  12                                                                       12R
thu  ttto~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ do  rot                                                                                                                                               tIILOMETEOS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KIOETR
1fM'JIUI
APRIL 0996



