Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
_  A   & Se373 -  Aloof
~ -b 9) 0    -                                   Report No. 7602-CII
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
APRIL 28, 1989
Transport and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
Thi documnt ha a rescted diibubdon and may be usd by recpients ify In the performanue of
their oflicfd dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be dscosed witout World Bank authoiizstion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 1989)
Currency name       -        Renminbi
Currency unit       -        Yuan (Y) = 100 Fen
US$1.00             8        Y3.70
US$0.27             -        Yl.O
US$1.0 million      -        Y3.7 million
US$270,000                   Yl.0 million
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 1
VEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                  -       3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)             G       0.62 mile (mi)
1 square meter (m2)          =       10.76 square feet (ft2)
1 square kilometer (km2)    8        0.4 square miles (mi2)
1 hectare (ha) - 0.01 km2            2.47 acres (ac) = 15 mu
1 mu                                 666.7 m2 = 0.0667 ha
1 kilogram (kg)              3       2.2046 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)         =       2,204 pounds (lbs)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CAAC      -    Civil Aviation Administration of China
ERR       -    Economic rate of return
GOVAI     -    Gross output value of agriculture and industry
HPDI      -    Highway Planning and Design Institute
HSRI      -    Highway Scientific Research Institute
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
ITC       -    International Tendering Corporation
MOC       -    Ministry of Communications
O-D       -    Origin-Destination
PTD       -    Provincial Transport Department
SAA       -    State Auditing Administration
SHAB      -    Shandong Highway Administration Bureau
SPTD      -    Shandong Provincial Transport Department
SPSDI     -    Shandong Planning, Survey and Design Institute
VOC       -   Vehicle Operating Costs
vpd       -    Vehicle per day



FOR OMCLIL USE ONLY
CHINA
SUAINDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table jf Contents
Page No.
Loan/Credit and Project Smary. .iv
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ................    1
A. Economic Setting.                                                            1
B. Traffic.                                                                     1
C. Transport Systems.                                                           2
D.  Transport Issues and Objectives in the 1980.                                4
E. Previous Bank-Financed Projects in Transport.                                6
II.  SHANDONG HIGHWAY TRANSPORT SYSTEM ...........................                    7
A.  Network .................................................                   7
B.  Road Safety .............................................                   7
C.  Traffic Growth and Characteristics ......................                   8
D.  The Vehicle Fleet .......................................                   9
E.  The Trucking Industry ...................................                   9
F.  Highway Administration ..................................                  10
G.  Planning, Budgeting and Financing .......................                  10
Hl.  Engineering, Construction and Maintenance ............                    11
I.  Staff Training ..........................................                  12
J. Highway Development: Objectives for the
Seventh Five-Year Development Plan ....................                 12
III.  THE PROJECT .................................................                   14
A.  Project Formula'tion and Preparation .....................                 14
B.  Project Object:lves ......................................                 14
C.  Detailed Features ........................................                 14
D.  Cost Estimates ..........................................                  18
E.  Financing ...............................................                  20
F.  Implementation ..........................................                  20
G.  Procurement .............................................                  22
H.  Disbursements ...........................................                  23
I.  Auditing, Reporting and Monitoring ......................                  24
J.  Environmental Effects .........................,.......                    24
This report was prepared by B. P. Kennedy (Engineer), S. Teravaninthorn
(Economist), and G. Mahoney (Consultant), who appraised the project.
0. Raggambi (Engineer) is the Task Manager for the Project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
r' 0 !r nf 'd: I d t  I 'e -    w , v rtntI rwa V     be, * clneed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION .........................................            26
A. The Existing Corridor .26
B.  Traffic on the Existing Roads (Present and Future)                   27
C.  Projected Traffic on the Proposed highway .28
D. Economic Evaluation .28
E. Overall Evaluation and Risks .29
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .31
TABLES
1.1   China:  Investment in the Transport Sector (Including
Posts -nd Telecommunications)   .             .32
1.2 China: Freight Traffic                ..33
1.3 China: Passenger Traffic                ..34
1.4 China: Highway Design Standards    ..35
1.5   China:  Motor Vehicles Manufactured and Imported, 1980-85                   36
1.6   China:  Total Freight Transport Handled by Public
and Social Trucks.                                              37
2.1   Shandong:  Demographic and Transport Network Data, 1985 .38
2.2 Shandong: Road Network, 1987 .39
2.3  S'atandong: Vehicle Fleet, 1984-1988 .40
2.4   Shandong:  Freight Handled by Public and Social Trucks, 1985                41
2.5   Shandong:  Road Maintenance Revenues and Expenditures,
1980-1986 .42
2.6   Shandong:  Capital Construction Investment in Transport
Sector, 1985 .43
3.1   Eouipment for the Road Pavement Strengthening Program  . .44
3.2 Road Maintenance Equipment                         ..                         45
3.3   Traffic Monitoring and Communication Equipment          .     .             46
3.4 Road Research Equipment               ..47
3.5 Staff Training Program for SPTD    ..48
3.6 Estimated Disbursement Schedule    ..49
4.1   Four-City Economic Profile             .. .............                     50
4.2  Qingdao Port Traffic               ..                    .............  51
4.3   Annual Traffic Volume Surveys for
Existing Jinan-Qingdao Road           ...............                    52
4.4   Traff', on the Existing Road without the Project   .            .......     53
4.5   Through Motor Vehicle Traffic            ...............                    54
4.6   Traffic on Proposed Road             ..                 .............       55
4.7   Economic Cost of the Project             ...............                    56
4.8   Vehicle Operating Cost Summary             ...............                  57
4.9   Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis ..............             58



- iii-
ANNEXES
1.  Terms of Reference for Supervision of Construction          .     .       59
2. Terms of Reference for Preparation of Road Data Bank,
Pavement Evaluation and Strengthening Program, 3nd
Maintenance Management Study                   ..                       65
3. Road Safety Program                          ..                            71
4. Project Implementation Schedule                    ..                      73
5.  Project Monitoring Indices .        .....................................  75
6.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File  ..             77
CHARTS
1. Relationship Between Central and Provincial Transport Departments
2. Organization of the Shandong Provincial Transport Department and
the Highway Administration Bureau
3. Organization of the Jinan-Qingdao Highway Headquarters
HAP
IBRD 20256R: Shandong Provincial Highway Project



- iv -
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:          Shandong Province
Amount:               Loan:    US$60.0 million equivalent
Credit: SDR 38.8 million (US$50,0 million equivalent)
Terms:                Loans    20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
standard variable interest rate.
Credit: Standard, with 35 years maturity.
On-lending Rate:      20 years, including 5 years of grace, at 5.3?, with
0.75? commitment fee on outstanding balance.
Project Objectives
and Description:    The project will assist the Shandong provincial
government in meeting the transport demand in the most
important and congested corridor in the province and ;n
improving management of the road networkt by introducing
modern planning and management technique   Specifically,
the project comprises:  (a) constructl   if a 319 km
four-lane divided highway between Jinan, the capital of
Shandong Province, and Qingdao, one of the major ports
in China; (b) consulting services to assist SPTD in
construction supervision and help train SPTD staff in
supervising and maintaining quality control over highway
construction; (c) specialized equipment and technical
assistance to evaluate about 560 km of existing road
pavements and prapare a pavement strengthening and
maintenance management program; (d) equipment and
expertise to set up a ccapute-ized road data bank to
improve road planning; (e) road maintenance, traffic
monitoring, and communication equipment; (f) research
equipment for the Central Road Laboratory; (g) training
of SPTD staff; and (h) road safety improvements.
Project Benefits
and Risks:          The principal benefits accruing to users of the new
highway would be savings in vehicle operating costs and
reduced accidents. There are no major risks foreseen
with the project.



v 
Project Costs:                                      Local      Foreign     Total
------ (US$ million) ------
Construction of the jinan-Qingdao highway    152.2          158.4      310.6
Consultant services for supervision,
technical assistance, etc.                      5.4         1.3        6.7
Equipment for highway research, road
maintenance, etc.                               0.0        10.5       10.5
Staff training                                    0.0         0.9        0.9
Base Cost (March 1989 prices)               157.6        171.1      328.7
Physical contingencies                           15.8        17.1       32.9
Price contingencies                              24.9        27.0       51.9
Subtotal                                    198.3        215.2      413.5
Land acquisition                                 10.0          -        10.0
Total Project Costs La                      208.3        215.2      423.5
Financing Plans                                     Local     Foreign      Total
------ (US$ million) ------
Central Government                         40.5          -         40.5
Provincial Government                     167.8        105.2      273.0
IBRD                                        -           60.0       60.0
IDA                                         -           50.0       50.0
Total Financing                        208.3        215.2     423.5
Estimated
Disbursements:      Bank Group FY          1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
---------- (US$ million) ---------
Annual                11.0  11.0  26.4  28.5  24.2   8.8
Cumulative            11.0  22.0  48.4  77.0 101.2 110.0
Economic Rate of
Return:             25Z for the project.
/a Import taxes and duties are not included in project costs, since the
project is exempted from these taxes and duties.



CHINA
SUANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY iROJECT
1. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
1.1      A national policy emphasizing self-sufficiency and the development of
heavy industry has been in place throughout the four decades following the
foundation of the People's Republic in 1949. This policy emphasis has left
China with the legacy of a "transport-intensive" economy and has created heavy
demands for trunsportation. These demands stem from the country's very high
volume of long-haul traffic in bulk materials and fuels, especially coal. Ths
government's recent pelicy statements repeatedly identify transportation and
energy as the two most critical bottienecks in the economy. The government
has made considerable efforts to reduce waste within the transport system, for
example by eliminating cross hauling of the same commodity and increasing the
processing of raw materials before shipment. However, the current transport
problem in China arises not only from the need for long oistance shipment of
coal and other raw materials, but also from the extraordinarily rapid growth
which has resulted from the accompanying structural reforms of the country's
economy in recent years. In the past, China did not provide sufficient
investment to meet the level of demand for transpcrt in such a large country.
Between 1953 and 1985, the transport sector received some Y154 billion, or 142
of the total national investment for capital construction (Table 1.1). This
percentage appears somewhat low compared to other countries at a similar stage
of development.  Furthermore, the investments were made without giving due
consideration to the most economical mode of transport and this resulted in a
rather unbalanced transport system. Improving efficiency through investment
in and modernization of China's transportation infrastructure, institutions,
and services, will continue to be a top priority in the development program
for many years to come. The government is addressing these problems and calls
for the construction of about 1.2 million km of paved roads by the year 2000.
This indicates the high priority assigned to improving road transport and the
substantial economic return expected from road investments.
B. Traffic
1.2      Freight Traffic.  Domestic freight transported in 1986 reached
1,383 billion ton-km, an 82 increase over 1985; tnis represents an average
growth rate of about 8.52 p.a. since 1980, substantially higher than the
growth of domestic product. Conservative projections based on these data and
expected growth in the economy as a whole indicate that domestic freight
traffic could approach 3,000 billion ton-km by the year 2000. The modal split
has been moving toward a better balance, with the road share of freight
transport increasing from 92 in 1980 to 14% in 1986. This trend is expected
to intensify with diversification and the continuing rapid growth of short-



- a -
haul traffic. Indeed, between 1980 and 1986, the growth of road freight
transport reached an average of 17.02 p.a.; this is s-bstanti&lly higher than
the growth rate recorded by any other mode (Table 1.2).
1.3      Passenger Traffic.  Passenger traffic reached 459 billion
passenger-km (p-km) in 1986, a 72 increase over 1985. Tnis reflects an
average annual growth rate of over 122 since 1980 (Table 1.3). Growth in
passenger traffic might have been even more rapid if it had not been
constrained by the limited capacity of the transport sector to offer more
passenger services. The modal split has changed more rapidly than for
freight; roads now handle about 372 of the traffic compared to less than 1O0
in 1952 and 282 in 1917. Nevertheless, the mobility of the Chinese people is
still much lower than that of people in countries with comparable income
levels. By :-he turn of the century, passenger ttaffic may well reach about
1,500 billion p-km per year. or about three and a half times current levels.
C. Transport Systems
1.4      The railway system consists of 52,000 operational route-km, of which
about 9,700 km are double- or multiple-track and about 3,100 km are electLi-
fied. The network is served by 11,100 locomotives, 291,000 freight cars, and
19,600 passenger coaches. At present, 68Z of tractive power is still driven
by steam, 282 by diesel, and 42 by electricity. Freight traffic density
averages 15 million tons per route-km, the second highest freight density in
the world after the Soviet Union and more than 50 higher than the freight
density in the United States. Freight traffic reached 876 billion ton-km in
1986. Growth in freight traffic has averaged 7.32 p.a. since 1980 and reached
82 in 1986. Three quarters of all freight traffic involves 10 commodities
including coal, iron and steel, grain, timber and construction materials.
Despite some possible rationalization in the transport of natural resources
and heavy industrial outputs, transport demand for the major commodities is
expected to grow rapidly. Passenger traffic in 1986 was 258.7 billion p-km;
this density of 4.6 million passengers per route-km ranks second in the world,
after India. Although the share of rail in total traffic is decreasing, the
volui..e of rail traffic will continue to grow, requiring massive investments in
line capacity, motive power, and rolling stock well into the future. The
system now absorbs about 502 of the investment allocated to the transport
sector for capital construction (Table 1.1).
1.5      The ports and waterway system is composed of about 109,000 km of
navigable inland waterways and over 18,000 km of coastal lines. Domestic
coastal shipping--which offers an alternative to the north-south railway--has
grown in recent years but remains underdeveloped. Foreign trade shipping grew
at an average of about 6Z p.a. between 1979 and 1984, 222 p.a. between 1984
and 1985, and 122 p.a. between 1985 and 1986, reflecting the opening up of
China to foreign trade. As a result, ports have become congested. Most of
the 15 major coastal ports are being renovated or expanded, with particular
emphasis on the construction of container and bulk terminals, the latter
mainly for coal. In 1986, 22Z of the investment for capital construction in
transport went to this subsector (Table 1.1).
1.6      The civil aviation system consisted of about 216,7r5 domestic
route-km (and 107,575 international route-km) in 1986, more than a threefold
increase over 1976. This network, relatively underdeveloped for the size of



-3-
China, is served by about 400 aircraft, most of which are light or medium in
size and seat fever than 100 passengers. The network has only 97 airports, of
which no more than 15 can serve the larger modern jet aircraft. It was not
until the early 1980s that the civil aviation system received attention; Its
allocation for inves'cment in capital construction reached Y2.0 billion in 1985
for the first time, after maintaining a level of Y100-300 million for a long
tIme.  The system's share of total transport investment increased from about
3% in 1980 to 13Z in 1985, and to about Oz in 1986 (Table 1.1). However, the
present development emphasizes only passenger transport. Passenger traffic
density was 67,350 passengers per route-km in 1986 compared to about
2,300 tons of freight traffic per route-km. Despite poor facilities, the
system's capacities are utilized to the fullest extent. Since 1980 the
national airline, Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC), has purchased
50 large passenger aircraft such as Boeings 737, 747, 757, and 767, the
Airbus, the MD-82, and the TU-154. The introduction into service of such a
large number of aircraft will place tremendous pressure on ground facilities
including runways, terminals, and navigation control. The Bank may be in a
position to make useful contributions in this area.
1.7      The highway system totalled about 962,800 km in 1986 and, althougn
still relatively underdeveloped, it is the sixth largest in the world.
Investment in the highway subsector has been rather modest, at 162 of total
investment in the transport sector. Since the early 1980s, the network has
borne an increasing share of traffic (paras. 1.2 and 1.3). The network is,
for the purposes of design and technical specifications, classified by the
Ministry of Communications (MOC) as Expressway, and Classes I, II, III and IV
for various traffic capacities in different terrain. These classifications
are shown in Table 1.4, which also shows the geometric standards now being
used. For administrative purposes, roads are classified as trunk, county,
rural, and special purpose.
1.8      The rapid growth of highway traffic stems not only from the country's
rapid economic growth but also from other factors such as the national policy
of shifting short-haul rail transport to road transport, the expansion of the
service sector and rural industries, and the increased processing of primary
materials before shipping. Furthermore, with the increase in foreign trade,
growth in road traffic will be concentrated in transport corridors serving the
main ports and their hinterlands and, vith the containerization of the higher
value commodities, much of this foreign trade is expected to go by road. The
new economic activities have generated traffic far in excess of what the
existing facilities can accommodate. Congestion on roads resulting from the
mix of slow-moving non-motorized and motorized traffic is a serious problem,
and road pavements are showing irncreasing signs of distress.
1.9      The vehicle fleet totalled some 4.0 million units in 1986.  It
consists mostly of trucks, which outnumber passenger buses by three to one and
cars by nine to one. Most trucks are of four-ton capacity with outmoded
designs and low fuel efficiency. Most of the trucks and buses are gasoline
powered. These vehicles were manufactured domestically and the production of
trucks has been barely sufficient to replace the retired vehicles, let alone
meet the fast-growing demand. It was not until the early 1980s that a large
number of moderr vehicles was imported (Table 1.5) and joint-ventures with
foreign manufacturers were started to manufacture trucks. Production in 1985
was about 440,000 units which, for the first time, exceeded the replacement
demand by 12Z, assuming a ten-year life. This production contributed to the
creation of a new rleet.



-4-
1.10     The trucking industry consists of "public trucks" operated by truck-
ing companies affiliated with local (provircial or district) highway authori-
ties, and "social" or "own-account" trucks operated by factories, any coopera-
tive organization and, recentl;, private individuals. The relaxation of
trucking regulations in the early 1980s allowed own-account trucks to haul
cargo for other factories and cooperatives and thus promoted competition
between public and own-account trucks. In fact, own-account trucks have
absorbed most of the growth in traffic over the past few years; this growth
occurred primarily in ahort-haul traffic (Table 1.6). The structure of the
industry is undergoing major changes spurred by the increased demand for road
transport, and market forces are expected to play a more important role in
shasing the industry in the future.
1.11     The administration of the highway network in the provinces is done by
the Provincial Transport Departments (PTDs) through their Bureaus of Highways.
Administratively, the PTDs come under the jurisdiction of the provincial
government. The Ministry of Communication (HOC) provides general policy
guidance and support to the PTDs through its nationwide policies and regula-
tions, specifying design and conetruction star.dards. MOC also provides
specialized manpower for planning and design and construction equipment for
major provincial civil works, if needed.  However, the PTDs are financially
independent of HOC and carry out all the road planning, construction,
ma4ntenance, and administration of roads and waterways in the provinces. MOC
is more heavily involved only in some large projects which are considered for
national construction investment and for which MOC shares part of the
financial burden. Chart 1 shows the organizational relationship between MOC
and the PTDs.
D. Transport Issues and Objectives in the 19809
1.12     The transport system has been severely taxed by the pace of recent
economic developments, and capacity constraints are evident in all modes. By
the end of the Seventh Five-Year Plan (SFYP, 1986-90), freight traffic is
projected to be 452 higher and passenger traffic 60X higher than in 1985. A
greater share of the increase will fall on road transport, especially in rural
areas, where increased agricultural and small-scale iiLdustrial production have
created an urgent demand for better farm-to-market transport services. Road
transport also will be called upon to meet a growing share of the demand for
passenger transportation from the increasingly mobile population. A formal
comprehensive sector investment plan does not yet exist, mainly because of the
multiplicity of ministries and agencies dealing with transport, the
decentralization of responsibilities for transport to the provinces, and the
magnitude of the task of preparing such a plan in a country as large as China.
There are plans to improve the coordination of transport planning at the
central government level by strengthening the transport planning function in
the State Planning Commission. This would greatly facilitate the preparation
of an overall transport investment plan. Meanwhile the government, with the
assistance of the Bank Group, is concentrating on some strategic studies and
on a "transport corridor" approach which will concentrate investments to
remove the most blatant transport bottlenecks in high priority corridors
identified by the government (para. 1.15). In order to facilitate the flow of
foreigu trade, top priority is given to corridors linking ports and industrial
development zones or to links among industrial zones themselves. This
strategy is well integrated with macro-economic objectives.



1.13     Government policy for the highway subsector in the 1980s focuses on
the simultaneous 4'nplementution of programs for road network expansion to meet
the increasing demand and programs for rehabilitation of existing substandard
roads. Thib policy differs from that of the past 30 years which emphasized
road length and left China with a legacy of substandard roads that cannot
sustain the recent increase in traffic. The Bark Group supports these twin
objectives and intends to assist the process of network expansion while
helping to direct development policy toward greater quality improvements. Its
support is provided within the framework of longer-term objectives for
improving efficiency and cost-effectiveness in meeting the increasing
transport demand. These longer-term objectives address specific policy,
institutional and technological areas such as: improved economic evaluation
techniques for the selection of road investments; improved intermodal
planning; efficient transport tariff, road user taxation, and road financing
systems; increased capacity to relieve road congestion; improved road safety;
developing a methodology for road pavement evaluation; increased efficiency in
the road transport industry; improved efficiency in construction througn
continued support cf Government's policy of competitive bidding and
development of the local contracting industry; staff training; modernization
of highway design and updating and improvement of construction and material
specifications; and support of highway research. Some studies related to
these objectives are being carried out under ongoing projects, and the Bank
Group has begun discussions with the Central and Provincial governments on the
potential for using sector lending as a means of achieving some of these
objectives.
1.14     There is severe congestion in many segments of the railway network;
capacity is saturated on se'.*eral key lines and there is an acute shortage of
wagons. The delivery of energy supplies (i.e., coal) is severely con. trained.
The policy is to invest in rail line electrification and new line
construction; however, it will take years to alleviate the bottlenecks between
major mining areas and coastal cities. For civil aviation, CAAC plans to
build about 20 medium to large airports between 1987 and 1990 and to enlarge
and rebuild about 40 small airports. Furthermore, Beijing International
Airport, Guangzhou Baiyun Airport, and Shanghai Hongqiao Airport will be
expanded and equipped with advanced navigation equipment; when finished,
capacity will be doubled. For the port and waterwaYs system, the policy is to
expand substantially facilities to relieve the growing hindrance to external
trade caused by inadequate berth capacity and container handling capacity. On
intermodal transport, inadequate road and rail links between ports and
hinterlands hamper the efficient turnaround of arriving cargo in a number of
ports. The policy is to integrate transportation networks, in particular for
coal and for import/export trade, container-handling facilities and intermodal
freight and passenger transport centers. To facilitate these developments,
significant institutional changes are planned for the sector, including
extending the policy of separating the regulatory functions of government from
the operating and financial functions of enterprises and delegating greater
authority to the enterprises (recently begun in the ports subsector).
Continuing adjustments of the charges for transportation services are expected
to promote the funding of investments in the sector from internally generated
resources.



- 6 -
E. Previous Bank-Financed Projects in Transport
1.15     The Bank supports the government's objectives and initiativvs for
development of the transportation sector with both financial and technical
assistance. The Bank is financing two highway projects (Loan 2539-CHA/
Credit 1594-CHA and Loan 2811-CHA/Credit 1792-CHA). One involves the
construction or improvement of national and rural roads, the other involves
the construction of the first expressway in one of the busiest transport
corridors in China, between Beijing, Tianjin and the new port of Xingang at
Tanggu. The projects also support highway research to achieve some of the
objectives for the highway subsector outlined above (para. 1.13) by:
supporting highway research, improving the planning of the road network
expansion and maintenance by preparing a Road Data Bank, preparing a suitable
methodology for evaluating road pavements, seeking low-cost solutions to road
congestion, improving the collection and analysis of traffic accident
statistics to identify the measures needed to reduce traffic accidents and,
most important of all, identifying how best to finance the expansion,
improvement, and rehabilitation of the highuray network. This work is laying a
solid foundation for developing a sound planning strategy and for allocating
investmen's in the subsector between main highways and rural roads and amona
construction, upgrading, rehabilitation and maintenance activities. Three
additional highway projects were approved by the Bank in FY89. These are the
Sichuan, Shaanxi, and Jiangxi Provincial Highway Projects, which also include
the construction or improvement of important national and rural roads and
continue support of the key objectives for the highway subsector as outlined
above.
1.16     Physical progress on the First Highway Project (Loan 2539-CHA/Credit
1594-CHA) is on schedule and work has started on four major civil works
contracts recently awarded under the Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway Project
(Loan 2811-CHA/Credit 1792-CHA). Three railway projects (Loans 2394-CHA,
2540-CHA, 2678-CHA/Credit 1680-CHA) have helped to expand capacity on key
routes and to manufacture electric locomotives, passenger coaches, and
signaling equipment. A fourth railway project was approved by the Bank on
June 23, 1988 (Loan 2968-CHA); it will further help to expand system capacity
and improve manufacturing. A railway operations costing system has been
tntroduced on a pilot basis as a result of a joint Bank/China collaborative
effort. Four earlier port projects (Loans 2207-CHA, 2689-CHA, 2907-CHA, and
2877-CHA) ani two additional projects approved in December 1988 would finance
the expansion of berths and berth handling capacity in six of the fourteen
major ports in China. These projects include components to improve port
operations and studies focusing on intermodal links to the hinterland and port
operating costing systems. In addition to these subsector-specific
operations, the Bank has recently begun to assist the government in conducting
strategic studies of a wider nature. A review of the utilization of inland
water transport was completed and translated into Chinese for distribution and
discussion among the Chinese authorities; another study on comprehensive
transportation for Guangdong Province has been completed; and a comprehensive
transport study is about to start for the greater Shanghai area, including
relevant parts of Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces. All projects are proceeding
satisfactorily.



II. SHANDONG HIGHWAY TRANSPORT SYSTEM
A. Network
2.1      Shandong is one of the few provinces in China that has a relatively
developed and balanced transport system. The network presently consists of
1,987 km of operating railways, 1,840 km of navigable inland waterways, and
37,530 km of highways. The network density for all modes of transport in
Shandong province is higher than the country average.  Furthermore, because it
is a coastal province, coastal shipping routes have been developed between
several coastal cities. Shandong has the fifth highest road network density
in China and ranks tenth in terms of total road length (Table 2.1). However,
as in other parts of China, the road network standard is low and quality is
poor. Most of the network was built in the 1960s when economic growth was
slow, so the roads were not designed to accommodate the large volnme rf
traffic and heavier vehicles associated with modern traffic. Of the 37,530 km
network of roads in 1986, only 268 km (0.7?) vere of Class I standard and
4,191 km (11.2Z) were of Class II standard. However, about 91? of the network
is rated as all-weather road, with the remaining 92 considered impassible
after heavy rains. The technical and administrative classification of the
road network is sbown in Table 2.2.
B. Road Safety
2.2      Under the first Highway Project (Loan 2539-CHA, Credit 1594-CHA) the
Bank is supporting a research program by the Highway Scientific Research
Institute (HSRI). This program includes a study on road safety which covered:
(a) a review of the existing system of reporting, recording, and analyzing
road accident statistics; (b) recommendations for improving data collection,
recording, and analysis of road traffic accidents; and (c) identification of a
program for reducing road traffic accidents. The final report on the study
was issued in December 1987.
2.3      The study found that road traffic accidents are a serious problem in
China. International comparisons show China to have one of the highest
accident rates in the world; in 1985 the fatality rate from road accidents was
100 deaths per 10,000 vehicles. The cost of road accidents to the Chinese
economy is estimated to be Y2.9 billion, or US$786 million annually. With the
present low vehicle ownership rate (4.5 vehicles per 1,000 residents) and the
high growth rate of the vehicle fleet (about 25? annually) over recent years,
the rate of growth of road traffic accidents is bound to increase unless
immediate actions are taken.
2.4      The study identified the following actions to be needed:
(a) a road safety audit to assess the status of key elements of road
safety;
(b)  improved police accident reporting;
(c) introduction of a computer-based accident analysis system (developed
by the U.K. Transport and Road Research Laboratory (TRRL) ar±d adopted
to Chinese language and conditions);



- 8 -
(d) identification of accident causes and black spots;
(e) preparation of working manuals and guidelines for road safety design;
(f)  improved administrative procedures and coordination and manpower
training;
(g) preparation of an action plan and identification of the resources,
and organizational structure to implement the plan.
2.5      A pilot road safety program has already been carried out in Sichuan
Province as part of the study. In line with the study's findings and the
Sichuan road safety program experience, a Road Safety Program will be
initiated under the proposed project in Shandong Province (para. 3.13).
C. Traffic Growth and Characteristics
2.6      Shandong is the second most prosperous province in China in terms of
its total Gross Output Value of Agri, ture and Industry (GOVAI). Therefore
it is not surprising that traffic in Shundong province, especially road
traffic, recently has grown faster than the national average. Between 1980
and 1986, road freight and passenger traffic increased by about 172 and 152
per year, respectively. These growth rates on highways were significantly
higher than the corresponding growth rates on railways (92 and 132) and on
inland waterways (142 and 7Z). The geographic position of Shandong partly
explains the high growth in traffic there, as five sea ports were recently
opened to foreign trade (Qingdao, Yantai, Shijiusho, Longkou, and Weihai).
With the increase in foreign trade, traffic growth has been concentrated in
transport corridors serving ports and hinterlands. The containeri-ation trend
towards handling higher value commodities, particularly at Qingdao port, also
will increase the demand for road transport. For example, road traffic growth
on some sections of the Jinan-Qingdao corridor already had reached 18-302 p.a.
in 1980-85. Roads in corridors such as this are expected to handle normal
traffic increases, short-haul traffic shifts from railways, and traffic
related to accelerated urban, industrial and port development, providing
capacity is available. However, in many corridors, including the Jinan-
Qingdao corridor, road capacity will not be available.



- 9 -
TRA"FIC IN SHANDONG PROVINCE (1980-1986)
------ Fretight traffic -------  ----- Passenger traffic ------
Inland                           Inland
Year             Highways  Railways  waterways   Highways  Railways  waterways
------ (million ton-km) ------  --- (million passenger-km) ---
1980              4,005     26,087       1,237      3,839      6,769        16
1983              5,787     30,966       2,243      5,264      8,954        19
1985              8,139     37,342       2,468      7,901    12,433        23
1986            10,287      44,618       2,694      8,771    13,895        24
Z p.a. growth
(1980-1986)       17.0         9.4        13.8       14.8       12.7      7.0
2.7      In 1978, Shandong, like other provinces in China, set up a thorough
traffic counting system for part of its national and provincial road network.
This count, which includes non-motorized vehicles, is made on a 24-hour basis.
Depending on how heavily trafficked the route, the counts are made either
three times a month or every day. However, this intensive and routine
counting system is seldom augmented with origin-destination surveys. The
latter would be useful for obtaining more accurate information on traffic
flows for highway planning and design.
D. The Vehicle Fleet
2.8      The development of the vehicle fleet over the last five-year period
(1984-1988) is shown in Table 2.3. While the truck fleet increased about 88Z
during this period, it is still considered inadequate to meet the growing road
freight demand. The short-term solution for this shortage of trucks has been
to use farm tractors, the number of which more than doubled in five years.
Although they help for the short distance transport of local agricultural
products and construction materials, the tractors impede the fast-moving
traffic and contribute to congestion along busy corridors. The growth of the
number of buses has been moderate, about 60Z in five yers. On a per capita
basis the bus fleet is below the country average. The number of cars almost
tripled between 1984 and 1988, although their growth rate was declining
gradually.
E. The Trucking Industry
2.9      Competition between public and own-account trucks is keen in Shandong
province. There is one public trucking company directly under the provincial
transport department and at least one public trucking company in each county
and township; the latter report directly to the county transport bureaus
concerned. The public trucking cumpanies have not done well financially and
therefore could not expand their business to cope with the growth in demand.



- 10 -
However, the rapid increase in the number of own-account trucking companies
indicates that, even with the government-regulated tariff, the trucking busi-
ness is profitable enough to encourage the entry of new own-account truckers.
Public trucks face problema of operational efficiency, partly due to the
expense of keeping in operation many old gasoline-powered standard four-ton
trucks, and the state regulation requiring them to haul certain forms of non-
profitable traffic. In general, the average hauling distance of public trucks
is longer than that of own-account trucks (Table 2.4).
2.10     Even though rapid economic growth and the relaxation of trucking
regulations is helping to revitalize the industry, there are still several
areas that could be improved to make the industry more efficient. One of
these areas is truck fleet management. Although there is excess demand, many
trucks are underutilized with low load factors and, very frequently, empty
back-hauls. Another area involves the development of road freight and
intermodal freight terminals to rationalize cargo dispatch, truck loads, and
intermodal transfer.
F. Highway Administration
2.11     Chart 2 shows the organization of the Shandonig Provincial Transport
Department (SPTD) and the Shandong Highway Administration Bureau (SHAB)--one
of its seven bureaus and institutes. The SPTD reports directly to the provin-
cial government and acts as an administrative arm of the provincial government
for planning, budgeting, and financing of transport in the province. However,
the SPTD conforms to the professional, technical, and general transport policy
guidelines issued by MOC. Similarly, administratively the SHAB reports
directly to SPTD but receives professional and technical guidance from the
Highway Bureau of MOC. The main function of the SHAB is to construct and
maintain all national and provincial roads in the province. It has direct
control over 15 Prefectural Highway Bureaus, 128 County Highway Units (one
unit per county), and about 1,458 road maintenance groups. On average, there
is one road maintenance group for about every 24 km of classified roads.
G. Planning, Budgeting and Financing
2.12     Planning.  The SPTD has overall responsibility for planning all road
investments and for the maintenance of the highway network in the province.
However, the prefecture, county, and village level highway administration
units have conriiderable autonomy in planning smaller road investments which,
as a formal'ty, are subject to the approval of the SPTD. There are three
levels of adninistration for the road network in Shandong province: (a) SPTD
administers 1',459 km of provincial and national roads and a small number of
important county roads; (b) county highway bureaus administer the county and
rural roads; and (c) village highway units administer the village roads. The
three administration groups prepare investment plans for the highway network
under their jurisdiction and submit their plans to the planning division of
SPTD by September of each year for the next year's plan. Before the end of
November, SPTD approves the next year's plan for each county or local
authority concerned. Similarly, the five-year road development plan is
prepared by SPTD using inputs from lower level administrative groups and
revised to conform to national or provincial development policy guidelines for
the plan period. Overall planning in the highway subsector would be greatly



- 11 -
improved on completion of the Road Data Bank, when a more economically
efficient investment selection process in regard to network expansion,
improvement, strengthening, and maintenance would be possible.
2.13     Budgeting.  As in almost all sectors in China, the SPTD planning
division always adopts a balanced-budget policy. The proposed highway invest-
ment is always balanced against that portion of the road maintenance tax and
other revenues earmarked for highway development. In October of each year and
before SPTD approves next year's projects, the current year's planned
investments are reviewed against actual investments and revenue receipts, and
adjustments are made where needed.
2.14     Financing.  The major source of financing for roadworks is road
maintenance revenue. At present, the road maintenance fee amounts to 152 of
total revenue for public trucks and Y105 per month per one payload ton for
own-account trucks. Road maintenance revenues and expenditures for the
1980-1986 period are shown in Table 2.5. In 1986, about 53Z of expenditures
covered road rehabilitation and maintenance works. About 25? of the
expenditures was used for new construction, which is the limit set by state
regulations for using revenues on new roads. The remaining 222 covered
salaries and overhead.
H. Engineering, Construction and Maintenance
2.15     Road and bridge projects are engineered by the planning and design
institutes at the provincial, prefecture, and county levels. The Shandong
Planning Survey and Design Institute (SPSDI) is responsible for designing all
major road, bridge, and tunnel projects. In designing road projects, SPSDI is
assisted by several institutes of MOC: (a) the Highway Planning and Design
Institute (HPDI); (b) the First and Second Survey and Design Institutes,
located at Xi'an and Wuhan; and (c) the Highway Scientific Research
Institute (HSRI). In designing bridges and tunnels, SPSDI also is assisted by
the First and Second Survey Design Institutes, and other specialized design
institutes. HPDI is available to assist in economic evaluation--a practice
which is now becoming routine for major road and bridge investments. HSRI
provides advice on problems pertaining to geotechnical design and conqtruction
materials. Foreign consultants have not been used for highway design in
Shandong, since the local institutes are professionally competent and have
adequate manpower for the work. However, since contracting of civil works
through international competitive bidding (ICB) has only recently been started
on a small scale, some foreign consulting assistance will be needed to prepare
bid documents for competitive bidding and to supervise civil works contracts.
2.16     In the past, road and bridge construction normally has been done as a
force account operation by construction bureaus attached to the provincial,
prefecture, or country governments. Since the State Planning Commission
directed that all major civil works be awarded after competitive bidding, a
domestic contracting industry has been growing rapidly. Many of the larger
provincial construction bureaus are being reorganized into financially
independent contracting companies and have been awarded contracts either
individually or as joint ventures with foreign contractors on roads financed
under the previous projects.
2.17     The national and provincial roads are well maintained by the SPTD.
However, due to the poor quality of the roads and the recent increases in



- 12 -
traffic, maintenance costs are rising rapidly. They presently range between
Y5,000 and Y6,000 per kilometer. Maintenance of the county roads is well
organized and is carried out effectively, mainly through labor-intensive
operations. A pilot program of paved road evaluation will be carried out in
the Jining Prefecture. It will provide data needed for preparing pavement
strengthening and maintenance management programs (para. 3.8).
I. Staff Training
2.18     The staff of the provincial and county PTDs are, in general, profes-
sionally competent, but many have not been exposed to new technology and
therefore often use outmoded work methods and equipment. Planning for techni-
cal manpower and assessing related training needs for the provincial highway
subsector has only recently been resumed after a hiatus in the late 1960s and
early 1970s. SPTD is presently preparing a manpower plan. However,
strengthening and expanding formal education and ongoing traiiiing programs
also will be needed to upgrade and increase the number of technical staff and
thereby meet the demand for trained personnel. fleanwhile, some urgently
needed training has been identified and will be supported under the proposed
project (para. 3.12).
J. Highway Development: Objectives for the Seventh
Five-Year Development Plan
2.19     Compared with other provinces in China, Shandong has received
relatively large investments in transport both in terms of absolute total
investment and capital investment per capita (Table 2.6). However, most of
the investment has gone to the railway (60X) and waterway (27Z) subsectors,
leaving only 5Z for the highway subsector. As a result, the lack of higLhiays
has become a bottleneck to the development of the provincial economy.
2.20     The policy objectives of SPTD in the highway subsector during the
Seventh Five-Year Plan closely follow the objectives set forth in the national
plan (paras. 1.12-1.13). Road capacity is to be expanded, especially in the
corridors leading to major ports, in order to relieve the demand on railways.
By 1990, 4,000 km of new roads are to be completed; of these, nine road
sections totalling 1,708 km would be major roads of Class II standard or
above. These projects are tabulated below. One would be the 319 km Class I
road from Jinan to Qingdao which is proposed for this project. Another is the
53 km Gaotang-Yencheng Class II road presently under construction and financed
by the Bank under the first Highway Project (Loan 2539-CHA/Credit 1594-CHA).



- 13 -
SHANDONG PROVINCE: MAJOR ROAD PROJECTS
INCLUDED IN SEVENTH FIVE-YEAR INVESTMENT
PLAN FOR HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
Investment
Cost
Road Section                     Class             Km        (Y million)
1.  Jin.qn-Qingdao                         I                  319         1,150
2.  Jinan-Xuzhou                           I & II             200            148
3.  Xidian-Kenli (Completed)               I                   98             98
4.  Yantai-Qingdao (Completed)             I                  194             85
5.  Taian-Laiwu                            I                   53             53
6.  Lanshantou-Yanzhou                     II                 274            165
7.  Taian-Liaochen                         II                 124            124
8.  Beizhen-Zhengzhou                      II                 394            160
9.  Gaotang-Yanchen                        II                  53             33
Total                                                   1,606         2,016
2.21     In addition to the road network expansion, the existing paved roads
would be strengthened and improved, and the management of the highway system
would be modernized through the introduction of improved road planning, compu-
terized design, improved specifications for construction materials and
methods, modern contracting and supervision procedures, improved paved road
maintenance systems, and training of provincial staff in a variety of civil
engineering fields, financial accounting and cost control, and equipment
management and maintenance. The possibility of carrying out sector lending at
the provincial level in order to better meet the above objectives is being
discussed with the central and provincial governments.



- 14 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. ProJect Formulation and Preparation
3.1      The Government of the People's Republic of China is seeRing Bank
Group help to remove the transport bottlenecks impeding economic growth. The
Seventh Five-Year Plan recognizes the need to expand and improve the road
network in order to meet the increasing demand for road transport and to
relieve the freight and passenger demand on railways. The plan's policy
objectives cover technological improvement and the renovation and expansion of
existing facilities to maximize efficiency in the highway subsector. The
proposed 319 km Jinan-Qingdao road is part of the plan for high-standard road
investment in the most important transport corridor in Shandong Province. The
proposed project was first discussed in November 1986. The Shandong
Provincial Transport Department (SPTD) was responsible for project
preparation.
B. Project Objectives
3.2      In addition to financing the construction of a high-capacity, high-
standard highway in one of the most important corridors in China, the project
woulld support the Province's objectives of increasing the efficiency of the
subsector more generally.  Specific policy, institutional, and technological
objectives to be addressed under the project are to:
(a) improve road planning techniques;
(b) evaluate existing paved roads and prepare a pavement strengthening
and maintenance management program;
(c) develop an institutional capacity for supervising the
construction of civil works;
(d) carry out staff training;
(e) strengthen highway research; and
(f) improve road safety.
C. Detailed Features
3.3      To accomplish these objectives, the project would include:
(a)  construction of a 319 km, four-lane divided, access-cot '.rolled
highway connecting Jinan, the capital of Shandong Province,
with Qingdao, one of the major ports of China;
(b) consulting services to assist SPTD in construction supervision and to
help train SPTD staff in supervising and maintaining quality control
over highway construction;
(c) specialized equipment and expertise for a pilot project to evaluate
about 560 km of existing road pavements and prepare a pavement
strengthening and maintenance management programs;



-15 -
(d) equipment to set up a computerized Road Data Bank to improve road
planning;
(e) road maintenance, traffic monitoring, and communications equipmtent;
(f) research equipment for the Central Road Laboratory;
(g) training of SPTD staff; and
(h) assistance in improving road safety.
3.4      Construction of the Jinan-Qingdao Highway.  Road transport in the
corridor between Jinan and Qingdao is no~w served by two substandard poor
quality roads which are heavily congested (Map IBRD 20251). The existing
380 km northern road has two lanes with about 65Z of its length built to
Class II standard, 24% to Class III standard, and the remaining ll% to
Class IV standard. Average traffic on the road is about 3,500 vehicles per
day, increasing to about 6,000 to 8,000 near the four major cities served. As
a result, the present traffic exceeds capacity over 731 of the road's length.
The 370 km southern road, which is located at some distance from the major
urban industrial centers to its north, also has two lanes with about 21% of
its length built to Class II standard, 612 to Class III standard, and 18Z to
Class IV standard. About one-third of the length of the southern road is
unpaved. The average daily traffic has now reached about 2,000 vehicles and
traffic exceeds capacity over 94% of the length. The average vehicle speed on
both roads is very L.ow- -about 40 kph on the northern road and 35 kph on the
southern road. Records show that in recent years road accidents have averaged
2-3 per kilometer per year. Additional road capacity is urgently needed to
relieve the prrcsent traffic congestion and handle the future short-haul
passenger and freight traffic in the corridor so that the railway is freed to
better serve the long-haul traffic.
3.5      The new 319 km Jinan-Qingdao highway would be built to Class I
standard and would be a four-lane divided highway with access restricted to
motor vehicle traffic. The existing road would continue to serve local and
non-motorized traffic. The new road would be located in the general area of
the presert northern road and would link four miajor cities--Jinan
(pop. 3.4 million), Zibo (pop. 2.7 million), Weifang (pop. 7.8 million), and
Qingdaio (pop. 6.2 million). The highway would begin at a junction with the
new ring road around Jinan, which will be completed prior to opening of the
project road, and cross the province from west to east to end at Xiyuanzhuang,
about 31 kmi northwest of Qingdao. The 31 km Class I access road from
Xiyuanzhuang to Qingdao was completed recently. The new alignment would run
between the northwestern Shandong Plain, which is part of the North China
Plain, and the south-central Shandong Mountains in the west, and along the
Jiaolai Plain in the east. The terrain is flat almost throughout with only 5Z
of the route in rolling or hilly terrain; the elevation above sea level ranges
between 20 and 40 meters. The geological conditions along the route are
suitable for road construction. Seismic activity in the area will require
that major structures near Jinan, Zibo, and Qingdao have anti-earthquake



- 16 -
designs. Access to and from the new highway would be provided at
20 interchanges and there would be 2 railroad crossings, 15 road overpasses,
27 road underpassess, and 432 small underpasses to serve livestock and small
farm-related vehicles. MaJor bridges would be built over the Zi, Wei, and
Dagu Rivers. The new four-lane highway is expected to provide adequate
capacity until the year 2010.
3.6      The preliminary engineering and economic feasibility study for the
highway was completed by SPTD and reviewed by the Bank Group. The design for
the highway was prepared by MOC's First Survey and Design Institute from
Xi'an, MOC's Highway Planning and Design Institute, Beijing, and the Shandong
Provincial Highway Design Institute. A new unit, the Jinan-Qingdao Highway
Headquarters, was created under the SPTD to coordinate project design and to
be responsible for overseeing bidding, contract award, and construction
supervision. Details of the Headquarters organization are shown in Chart 3.
The joint-venture of China Highway Engineering Consultants (CHE) and Louis
Berger International-USA (LBIi, CHELBI, assisted in completing the design and
preparing bid documents. LBI's services were financed by the US under its
Trade Development Program. The geometric design standards for the new highway
are shown in Table 1.4 and are appropriate.
3.7      Supervision of Construction.  Since contracting for civil works is a
relatively new procedure in Shandong, local staff have la.mited experience in
the supervision of road construction contracts. Some training of MOC and SPTD
engineers in supervisory work was started under the first Highway Project, but
there is still a shortage of experienced local engineers. To ensure that
works on the highway are carried out in full compliance with specifications
and that there is good quality control on site, a combined team of SPTD and
experienced foreign and local engineers would be set up to supervise the
works. A new Supervision Division would be created within SPTD with five
Resident Supervision Units for this purpose headed by the Chief Supervision
Engineer. The consultants would help establish the systems and procedures for
the supervisory work and train the SPTD engineers, both formally and on-the-
job, in carrying out the supervision of construction. Terms of reference for
construction supervision are given in Annex 1 and were agreed at negotiations.
3.8      Evaluation of Existing Road Pavements.  A Finnish team of consultants
under bilateral aid would provide technical assistance to carry out a pilot
project for evaluating existing pavements and develop programs for paved road
strengthening and maintenance management (para. 3.14). The SPTD has selected
Jining Prefecturate for this pilot project since many of its 2,140 km of roads
are showing signs of distress and strengthening and improved maintenance is
urgently needed there. Some 560 km of selected paved roads will be evaluated,
and this will form the basis for identifying the equipment, materials, and
manpower resources required for programs of pavement strengthening and
improved maintenance management for the whole provincial network. Local
engineers would be trained under this pilot project and the procedures
developed would be applied subsequently throughout the province. Specialized
equipment needed for the road pavement strengthening program (Table 3.i) would
be financed under the project. Terms of reference for the pavement evaluation
study are given in Annex 2 and were agreed at negotiations.
3.9      Road Planning.  A computerized Road Data Bank for a highway subsector
management information system is being set up at central MOC and in the



- 17 -
provinces. The Data Bank would contain all information on the existing road
network, such as road class, design standards, traffic, horizontal and
vertical alignments, width, pavement types and layer of thickness, structural
bearing capacities and remaining life, location and type of structures with
their design characteristics, etc. This Data Bank, when fully developed,
would provide the tool for a more economically efficient method of planning
investments in the expansion, rehabilitation and strengthening, and
maintenance of the highway system. The MOC's HPDI has prepared the standard
format for the data to be incorporated in the Data Pank and is setting
guidelines for the provinces so that a uniform, interconnected, and fully
integrated information system will be set up nationwide. HPDI's work is being
financed under the Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway Project (Loan
2811-CHA/Credit 1792-CHA). Furthermore, under ongoing Bank-financed projects
in Shaanxi, Sichuan, and Jiangxi provinces, the collection of information for
the Road Data Banks will soon start. Under the proposed project, computer
hardware and software would be provided to the SPTD to develop the Road Data
Bank for Shandong Province, with the technical assistance of HPDI. Terms of
Reference for the Road Data Bank, outlined in Annex 2, were agreed at
negotiations.
3.10     Equipment for Road Maintenance, Traffic Monitoring and
Communications. The Jinan-Qingdao highway would be the first high-standard
road in Shandong built to specifications reflectitig advanced technology. It
would be access-controlled with no crossings at grade and road usage
completely iimited to motor vehicles. Therefore, proper maintenance of the
roadway, structures, and drainage together with reliable communications
throughout the project would be essential for proper operation and control of
the facility. Under the project, the equipment needed for maintenance,
vehicle weight control, communications and traffic monitoring and policing
would be provided. The type, number of units, and estimated cost of such
equipment was agreed at negotiations (Tables 3.2 and 3.3).
3.11     Research Equipment for the Provincial Central Road Laboratory.  Part
of the Central Road Laboratory's research program should include efforts to
improve the quality and use of local bitmen in asphaltic concrete pavements
and the construction of a two-km test road comprised of several different
designs for flexible pavement. Specialized equipment, the list of which was
agreed at negotiations, would be provided under the project to assist in this
vital research effort (Table 3.4).
3.12     Training of SPTD Staff.  The transfer of technology and the develop-
ment of human resources are essential to setting up an effective institution
to manage the planning, development, construction, and maintenance of a modern
highway system. In addition to the on-the job training that would be provided
in supervision and quality control of civil works construction (para. 3.7),
about 37 officials from SPTD would be trained in the areas of transport
planning and economics, soil and material engineering, concrete technology,
highway design, structural design, highway maintenance, equipment management,
contract administration, construction supervision, and financial management
and accounting. In the selection of specific courses, consideration will be
given to the experience gained under previous training programs administered
by MOC. Also, whether a training course would be arranged abroad or conducted
in China, with the participation of well-qualified local and foreign lecturers
would be decided in consultation with the World Bank Group. It is expected
that the trainees, after completing their respective courses, would plaI 



- 18 -
major role in developing and managing the Shandong road system and would be
transferring up-to-date technology to other staff. The scope, estimated
costs, and ten:qtive timing of the training program to be carried out under
the project was agreed at negotiations (Table 3.5). In addition to this
program, about 20 key SPTD staff, who will be assigned to the Jinan-Qingdao
road supervision team, would be trained abroad for about two months with the
assistance of the supervision consultants. The supervision consultants would
also conduct a six-week course for about 100 SPTD personnel who would be
assigned to the joint consultant/SPTD supervision team (para. 3.14).
3.13     Improving Road Safety.  The statistics available on road traffic
accidents reveal an unsatisfactory situation regarding road safety in Shandong
Province. The low geometric and pavement quality standards of most roads
combined with the heavy traffic volume and the mix of slow and fast moving
traffic are detrimental to road safety. It is therefore considered
appropriate to carry out a Road Safety Program in Shandong Province following
the recommendations of a Road Safety Study conducted under the First Highway
Project (Loan 2539-CHA/Credit 1594-CiA) and the experience gained under the
pilot road safety program in Sichuan Province. The scope and timing of the
program was agreed at negotiations (Annex 3).
3.14     Consulting Services.  About 208 man-months of foreign and local
consulting services are expected to be needed under the proposed project.
Foreign consulting help would bz sought only for those areas of advanced
technology where local expertise is lacking. These areas include the use of
advanced instrumentation for measuring road deflection and deterioration, the
analysis of traffic flows, transport economics, and other very specialized
fields. Experienced foreign and local consu'ltants would be assisting the
office of the Chief Supervision Engineer, the Office of the Engineer's
Representative, and the Resident Supervision Units. About 104 man-months of
foreign and 81 man-months of local expertise is estimated to be needed for
this assistance, which would focus on setting up the organizational systems
and procedures for effective quality control and providing guidance to the
joint consultant/SPTD Supervision team in key technIcal and contract
administration areas. A further 7 man-months of foreign consultant services
would be needed in connection with training SPTD engineers in supervision
practices at home and abroad. About 16 man-months of services would be
provided by a Finnish engineering team under bilateral aid to assist in
evaluating the 560 km of road pavements and preparing the pavement
strengthening and maintenance management programs. Further assistance would
be provided to SPTD by MOC's HCRI and HPDI in setting up and operating the
Road Data Bank, and in implementing the Road Safety Program.
D. Cost Estimates
3.15     The total prciect cost, including physical and price contingencies
and land acquisition costs, is estimated to be Y1,707.52 million, or
US$423.50 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of
US$215.21 million, or about 512. Project costs are shown on page 19. All
base costs are estimated in March 1989 prices. Physical contingencies are
calculated at 10? of base cost estimates and applied to all components. Price
contingencies have been calculated for both foreign and local costs. When
expressed in US dollars, the escalation is based on an expected international
annual price increase of 5.3X in 1989 and 1990, and 4.12 thereafter.



PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(March 1989 prices)
Foreign
Local     Foreign     Total       Local     Foreign     Total       Cost
--------Yuan million -------      --------US$ million-------         (X)
Construction of Jinan-Qingdao road (319 km)      563.28      585.89   1,149.17     152.24      158.35     310.59       51
Assistance and training in
supervision of construction                     20.00        4.80      24.80       5.40        1.30       6.70       19
Specialized equipment for preparing
road strengthening program                ,      0.00        0.75       0.75       0.00        0.20       0.20      100
Road planning (Road Data Bank)                      0.00       1.85       1.85        0.00       0.50       0.50      100
Road ma4.&tenauce equipment                         0.00      11.10      11.10        0.00       3.00       3.00      100
Research equipment for central road
laboratory                                       0.00        2.22       2.22       0.00        0.60       0.60      100
Traffic monitoring and comunication
equipment                                        0.00       22.80      22.80        0.00       6.15       6.15      100
Staff training                                     0.00        3.33       3.33        0.00       0.90       0.90      100   ,
Technical assistance and equipment to
improve road safety                              0.00        0.37       0.37       0.00        0.10       0.10      100
Base Cost                                     583.28      633.11   1,216.39     157.64      171.1D     328.74       52
Physical contingencies (102)                      58.33       63.31     121.64       15.76      17.11      32.87       52
Price contengencies                              232.54       99.85     332.43       24.87      27.00      51.87       52
Subtotal                                      874.14      796.31   1,670.46     198.27      215.21     413.48       52
Land acquisition cost                             37.06        0.00      37.06       10.02       0.00      10.02        0
Total proSect cost                            911.20      796.31   1,707.52     208.29      215.21     423.50       51
a/ Exchange rate is US$1 - Y3.70.
bI All figures are rounded.



- 20 -
When expressed in Yuan, the escalation is based on an expected annual domestic
price increase of 15.0 in 1989, and 10Z thereafter. The cost estimates do
not include taxes and duties since all material and equipment to be used in
the project would be exempt from taxes and duties.
3.16     The costs of civil works are based on work quantities calculated from
detailed designs and cJsted at unit prices. The unit prices for the work
items were computed based on MOC's standard manuals for labor and equipment
productivity and the related, annually-updated, costs combined with the
current costs of materials. The unit prices were checked against the unit
prices recently received in bids for major road works financed under the
previous highway projects.
3.17     The base cost per kilometer of the dual 4-lane highway, excluding
contingencies and land acquisition costs, is about US$1.0 million, which is
acceptable. The foreign exchange component is estimated at about 51? for
foreign contractors and about 482 for domestic contractors.
3.18     The cost of equipment is based on prices quoted by manufacturers
outside China. Cost estimates for the highway maintenance, operation, and
research equipment are based on manufacturers' current prices and on the list
of equipment agreed at negotiations.
E. Financing
3.19     The Bank loan of US$60.0 million and an IDA credit of
SDR 38.8 million (US$50.0 million equivalent) would finance about 26? of the
project costs, or about 51? of foreign exchange costs. The Government would
provide about US$40.5 million equivalent and S'iandong Province would provide
US$270.9 million equivalent.
Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Government                 World
Provincial    Central         Bank Group   Total
Highway construction          195.3          40.5              74.8      310.6
Supervision                     5.4             0               1.3        6.7
Equipment                          0            0              10.5       10.5
Training                          0             0               0.9        0.9
Contingencies                  62.3             0              22.5       84.8
Land acquisition               10.0             0                 0       10.0
Total             273.0         40.5             110.0      423.5
F. Implementation
3.20     SPTD would have overall responsibility for implementing the project
under the general supervision of MOC and through the Jinan-Qingdao Highway



- 21 -
Hehdquarters set up especially for the road project (para. 3.6). The highway
would be constructed under unit priced civil works contracts. The detailed
design is being completed and bid documents are being finalized.
Prequalification of contractors was completed in April 1989. The procedures
for acquiring land started in September 1988 and the right-of-way for the
highway will be fully acquired by end June 1989; all acquisition agreements
with municipalities, towns, villages, and production units are being finalized
and the process of resettlement and compensation of the people affected will
be completed by end November 1989. Construction is expected to start in
November 1989 a-id be completed by mid-1994. The works would be supervised by
a joint SPTD and foreign and local consulting team of engineers and
technicians.
3.21     SPTD, through its Highway Administration Buteau, and assisted by a
Fitinish Group of consultants, would be responsible for evaluating the 560 km
ot existing road pavements and for preparing pavement strengthening and
maintenance management programs (para. 3.8). These programs would include
details of the manpower, equipment and materials, and related funds needed to
implement the programs over a suitable time frame. It is expected that the
evaluation of road pavements would start in April 1989 and would be completed
by mid-1994. The Highway Administration Bureau and Central Road Laboratory
would be responsible for completing the test road for asphaltic concrete
pavement (para. 3.11) and fo, collecting and analyzing the resulting data.
However, no meaningful data would be available until after several years of
road use.
3.22     The SPTD would select foreign and local consultants to provide the
expertise on supervision and quality control of civil works and to train SPTD
staff in this work. The foreign consultants are expected to start work in
August 1989 in order to help establish the supervisory organization before the
start of civil works. The consultant services would continue until about mid-
1994, when the civil works are expected to be completed.
3.23     Equipment for pavement evaluation and the Central Road Laboratory
would be procured from mid-1989 through mid-1990, and the computer hardware
and software for the Road Data Bank during 1991. The collection and
processing of the data on the roads would start in late 1990. Procurement of
road maintenance equipment would begin in late 1991 and would be completed in
late 1992. The procurement of traffic monitoring and communications equipment
would begin in mid-1992 and would be completed in mid-1993. The project would
be completed by December 31, 1994. Loan/credit closing would be on
June 30, 1995.
3.24     An implementation schedule for the proposed project was agreed at
negotiations and is presented in Annex 4.



- 22 -
G. Procurement
3.25     Procurement under the project would be carried out as shown in the
following table:
Procurement method             Total
Project element                       ICB          Other          Project Cost
--------     (US$ million)      --------
Highway contracts                    368.7        22.0              390.7
(88.7)       (5.3)            (94.0)
Equipment                             12.2         1.0               13.2
(12.2)       (1.0)            (13.2)
Training and consultants                 0         9.6                9.6
(2.8)             (2.8)
Land acquisition                         0        10.0               10.0
Total                       380.9         42.6             423.5
(100.9)       (9.1)           (110.0)
Note:   Figures in parentheses represent the respective amounts financed by
the Bank Group. All figures include estimated physical and price
contingencies and are rounded.
3.25     Conztruction of the highway under the project would be carried out
under eight unit priced contracts. Seven of these have an estimated value of
US$368.7 million and would be awarded after international competitive
bidding (ICB) to prequalified contractors in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Prequalified contractors, according to their bidding capacity, would be
allowed to submit bids for more than one individual contract at their option,
with discounts for more than one contract taken into account in evaluation.
The International Tendering Corporation (ITC) of the China National Technical
Import Corporation, in conjunction with SPTD, will organize the ICB. The
remaining contract (16 km, US$22.0 million), at the Jinan terminal of the
project road, would be done by force account. A new airport is under
construction about 16 km east of Jinan and just south of the new highway.
Since it is expected to be operational in late 1989, the Jinan terminal
section of the new road should be completed by the same time so as to provide
access to the airport. Since prequalification and ICB procedures would delay
the start of construction by several months, it was agreed that work on this
first contract would start as soon as the detailed design is completed. The
plans, specifications, and bill of quantities for the contract have been
prepared to international standards; SPTD has the competence ard resources to
carry out the work.
3.27     Equipment (US$12.2 million) for road pavement evaluation, the road
data bank, traffic monitoring, communications, and road maintenance would be
procured through ICB. Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than
US$200,000 per contract, up to -n aggregate amount for all contracts not to



- 23 -
exceed US$1.0 million, may be procured on the basis of a comparison of price
quotations solicited from at least three suppliers eligible under the Bank
Group's Guidelines, and in accordance with. procedures acceptable to the Bank
Group. The ITC, in conjunction with SPTD, would be responsible for the
procurement of all equipment.
3.28     Under ICB, qualifying domestic contractors and manufacturers would be
eligible for a margin of preference in the comparison of bids of 7.5% for
civil works and 15% for goods, or the prevailing customs duties, whichever is
lower. Since procurement by competitive bidding in the highway subsector is
still relatively new in China, all ICB contracts for civil works and equipment
estimated to cost more than US$500,000 would be subject to prior review and
agreement of procurement documentation by the Bank Group.
3.29     All consultants needed in the proiect will be employed under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Local expertise available in the various institutes in the subsector will be
used as much as possible, and the help of foreign consultants will be sought
only for those areas of advanced technology where local expertise is lacking.
H.  Disbursements
3.30     Disbursement of the Loan and IDA credit would cover:
(a) 30% of the total cost of the highway civil works;
(b) 1002 of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment or 1002
of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured
equipment and 75? of local expenditures for other items procured
locally; and
(c) 100X of the foreign costs of consulting services and overseas
training of staff.
To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account would be opened with an initial
deposit in US dollars of 7.0 million, the estimated average expenditure for a
four-month period.  The account would be opened in US dollars in a bank
acceptable to the Bank Grour. Applications for replenishment of the Special
Account would be submitted monthly or whenever the Special Account is drawn
down to 50? of its initial deposit, whiclhever comes first.  A schedule of
estimated disbursements is given in Table 3.6, which also shows the regional
transport project disbursement profile; disbursements under th proposed
project are estimated to follow closely the rate shown in the regional
profile. Although the international competitive bidding procurement method
for highways was introduced on a very modest scale under the Bank's first
Highway Project (Loan 2539-CHA/Credit 1594-CHA), this project will be the
first major use of ICB procedures in Shandong Province. Therefore, some
delays are possible but they are expected to be minimized by appropriate Bank
Group supervision and assistance during the early stages of the project.
3.31     Disbursements would be made against priced contracts for the highway
civil works and for equipment and materials. Interim certification of civil
works completed and costed at unit rates in the contracts will be done by the
joint SPTD/Consultant supervisory team and certified by the Chief Supervision



- 24 -
Engineer of SPTD. Disbursements for training overseas will be made against
the actual costs of travel, subsistence, and tuition or training fees.
Disbursements against statements of expenditure will be needed for the
training component and for goods or services costing less than US$200,000.
Documents supporting t)e expenditure statements will not be submitted to the
Bank Group but instead will be retained by SPTD in Jinan and made available
for review by Bank Group supervision missions. Retroactive financing in an
amount of no more than SDR 3.5 million (US$4.5 million equivalent) would be
mede for works completed after project appraisal on July 8, 1988.
I.  Auditing, Reporting and Monitoring
3.32     A State Auditing Administration (SAM) has been established to make
detailed audits of the government agency accounts. Assurances were obtained
from the Government at negotiations that the accounts for project-related
expenditures would be sudited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
Group and audit reports would be sent to the Bank Group for review within six
months of the close of each Chinese fiscal year of the Borrower. The Bank
Group currently accepts SAA audits for this purpose.
3.33     Project progress reports would be submitted quarterly to the Bank
Group by SPTD, based on the project monitoring indices shown in Annex 5. A
Project C.ompletion Report would be prepared and submitted to the Bank Group
not later than six months after the loan/credit closing date.
J. Environmental Effects
3.34     The construction of the Jinan-Qingdao highway should cause no signi-
ficant environmental problems. It has been ascertained that ecologically
sensitive areas will not be affected by the highway. There is very little
danger of soil erosion since the area along the highway is relatively flat and
all the highway drainage outlets will be paved.  The design and specifications
require that temporary and permanent culverts be provided for all irrigation
and drainage canals to ensure that farm activities are not disrupted. The new
highway would improve the environment in many respects. Alignment would be
improved through the use of grade-separated junctions and by separating faster
moving vehicular traffic from the slower moving bicycles, tractors, and
animal-drawn carts.  The separation would reduce the existing traffic
congestion and improve road safety. Congestion in or near the cities and
towns along the existing road would be curtailed, substantially reducing noise
and air pollution.
3.35     The acquisition of land for construction projects is done under the
"Regulations on the Requisition of Land for State Construction" promulgated by
the State Council on May 14, 1982 and as further clarified by a document
entitled "Elucidation of the Regulations on the Requisition of Land for State
Construction" issued by the State Planning Commission, the Ministry of
Agriculture, Animal Husbandry Protection on June 9, 1983. These regulations
detail the procedures for land acquisition, the range of compensation to be
paid for cultivated land and resettlement, the use of any surplus agricultural
labor resulting from the acquisition, and the environmental protection
measures to be taken during construction.  Compensation for cultivated land is
based on the average annual output for three years prior to acquisition,
multiplied by the State prices or the above-quota price (based on actual
proportion in the production unit), or a negotiated price for products with no



- 25 -
fixed price. The settlement allowance per capita is two to three times the
average annual output value per mu of land and is based on the average area of
cultivated land occupied by each faLmer. The total allowance for cultivated
land compensation and resettlement is stipulated not to exceed twenty times
the annual output value of the acquired land. Surplus agricultural laborers
are absorbed in other agricultural production units or employed elsewhere in
factories, etc. The regulations appear fair and equitable and are strictly
enforced with penalties set for any deviations.
3.36     Details of the land area to be acquired, area of buildings to be
demolished, numbers of persons and families to be relocated, and the telephone
and .lectricity lines to be moved are shown below:
Jinan    Hueimin    Zibo       Weifang      Qingdao      Total
Land Acquisition      6,401     3,169      6,545     16,015        6,900      39,030
(Chinese mu)
Removal of houses
(sq. meter/houses)   3,869/152 1,916/75  2,290/74  672/51          1,486/80  10,233/432
Resettlement of
family
(person/family)     4,162/832 2,060/412 4,581/917 11,211/2,242 4,830/966 26,844/5369
Relocation/removal
of communication
and electricity
cables and wires
(meter)             81,706    40,454    92,498    52x,402         20,230    757,290
3.37     The local governments involved wotvld be fully responsible for the
resettlement of the 5,369 families affected by the highway project. In
general, the families displaced would be resettled outside the right of way
of the highway near the location of their present dwellings. According to
the plan presented by the SPTD and agreed at negotiations, the resettlement
process and compensation of the people affected by the project highway
would be completed by November 30, 1989. It was also agreed that, in the
interest of possible future improvements to the resettlement and
compensation process, a sample survey would be carried out by SPTD during
the second half of 1990 to determine, through selected parameters, the
impact of resettlement on the families dislocated.



- 26 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. The Existing Corridor
4.1      The Jinan-Qingdao corridor serves the four largest industrial cities
in Shandong province: Jinan, Zibo, Weifang, and Qingdao. With only one-
fourth of the country's land area, in 1984 these four cities together
generated 55Z of the gross output value of industry and over 402 of the
combined value of agriculture and industry for the province (Table 4.1). By
the year 2000, the combined industrial and agricultural output for the four
cities is expected to triple. The forecasted average annual increase is 132
for Jinan, Zibo, and Weifang, and 232 for Qingdao. This dynamic economic
performance generates considerable traffic in the corridor and with these
forecasted increases in productivity, the transportation networks will
experience considerable additional strain.
4.2      The major transport infrastructure serving the corridor comprises two
substandard roads (para. 3.4) and a 393 km single-track railway linking Jinan,
Zibo, Weifang, and Qingdao. Most of the long-distance freight transport
(83-852), and particularly the through traffic between Qingdao port and the
interior, has been handled by the railway, with the existing roads handling
shorter distances and intraregional traffic. The average distance for rail
traffic is 500 km and for road traffic 150 km. As stated in para. 2.6,
between 1980 and 1985 road freight and passenger traffic increased by 82 and
22 more per annum than rail traffic, and by 32 and 82 more per annum than
traffic using the inland waterway system. This growth has taken place despite
the absence of a direct road between Jinan and Qingdao. At present the two
routes linking these centers consist of a Northern Road which is paved and a
Southern Road which is nearly one-third unpaved.
4.3      The coastal city of Qingdao, with its growing industrialization and
its expanding port which accommodates foreign trade, generates great demand
for cargo transport facilities to link industries with markets and the port
with its hinterland. With a total of 29 berths, including specialized berths
for coal, crude oil, timber, general cargo and containerized cargo, the volume
of freight activity overall increased at approximately 92 per year from
1980-1985. Foreign trade grew by almost 112 per year (Table 4.2). In 1985,
332 of the total port traffic, which amounted to 26.6 MT including crude oil,
was either of foreign origin or was destined for foreign ports. The rapid
development of Qingdao port has generated great pressure for the development
of efficient surface transport, both road and rail. Of the total hinterland
freight transported to and from Qingdao port in 1984, it is estimated that
about 672 went by rail, 212 by road, and 121 by coastal shipping. Recent
statistics indicate that road transport accounts for an increasing share of
this traffic to the hinterland, because railway capacity has been saturated.
This shift to the roads has even included some of the long distance traffic
more suitable for railway trarnsport.
4.4      Total transport demand in this corridor is not expected to fall in
the foreseeable future. In fact, the need to remove transport bottlenecks
will become even more urgent given the estimated 112 annual increase in port
activity (to the year 2000), the increasing agricultural and industrial



- 27 -
productivity of cities in the corridor (estimated at 13Z per annum to the year
2000), the associated increase in market activity, urban expansion, and the
overall rapid growth of the national economy.
4.5      To partially deal with the problem the railway is now being double
tracked and, by 1990, its capacity will increase from 20 million tons to 40
million tons. However, with the planned expansion of the Port of Qingdao from
26 MT to 63 MT by the year 2000 and no improvement in road capacity, this
increase in railway capacity would be saturated within a year or two of its
completion. Furthermore, with many of the road segments presently
experiencing severe congestion, transport would become a serious deterrent to
future economic development. Since rail transport is not cost effective over
short distances, the investments to increase road capacity would release the
transport bottlenecks and enhance the complementary role of the two modes,
thus creating a more efficient transport system in the corridor.
B. Traffic on the Existing Roads
(Present and Future)
4.6      Since 1979, the Shandong Provincial Transport Department (SPTD) has
made regular traffic counts on the roads in the corridor. These counts show
an average of 192 p.a. growth in motor vehicle traffic over the period 1980-84
and 13X p.a. growth in mixed traffic. Table 4.3 shows the increases in both
motorized and mixed traffic on specific segments of the Jinan Qingdao Road, as
well as the variations in traffic between the segments. For example, in 1984
motorized traffic varied from a low of 800 vpd to 5,700 vpd, and mixed
vehicles from 1,500-8,000 vpd. Assuming a yearly growth rate for motorized
traffic of 11.4Z to the year 2000 and 52 to 2010, without the new highway
traffic on the existing road would vary from 4,500 to 21,500 vpd by the year
2000 and from 9,000 to 41,000 vpd by 2010, clearly an unacceptable volume of
traffic (Table 4.4).
C. Projected Traffic on the Proposed Highway
4.7      The proposed highway would connect with five other national highways
and provincial arterial highways. It would be the first major east-west
highway in the province. The projected traffic on the highway would come from
three main sources: (a) traffic diverted from the existing road; (b) traffic
diverted from the railway; and (c) traffic generated by the highway itself.
Non-motorized traffic would not be allowed on the highway. In determining the
resultant traffic volumes on the proposed road, the road has been divided into
three segments as follows: Qingdao-Weifang. Weifang-Zibo, and Zibo-Jinan.
Based on the above assumptions, separate traffic projections have been made
for each segment.
4.8      Traffic Diverted from Existing Roads.  In 1984, SPTD conducted a
traffic origin-destination survey at several locations along the two roads in
the corridor and adjacent links. The results of this survey are shown in
Table 4.5. They indicate that about 22Z of motorized vehicles on the existing
road is through traffic among the four cities, about 562 is inter-regional,
and 342 intraregional. It has been assumed that where the highway shortens
travel distances, all of the traffic would shift to the road. Near the large
cities, however, only a 702 traffic shift has been assumed. Diversion due to



- 28 -
congestion alone has not been taken into account in the analysis. Based on
these assumptions, the estimated traffic volume diverted to the highway would
vary between 5,500 and 8,600 vpd, depending on the section, in 1994, and
increase to 21,600 to 34,000 vpd by the year 2010 (Table 4.6).
4.9      Traffic Diverted from the Railway.  The highway between Jinan and
Q4ngdao would be 60 km shorter than the railway link. The shorter distance,
coupled with the government's recent policy to use rail for long distance
traffic, would cause a large volume of short-haul traffic to shift from rail
to road. Freight shippers would be further motivated to use the road initead
of the railway because rail fares for short hauls of up to 200 km have been
increased, making the trucking rates more competitive. Though there will be
some reversion of long haul traffic (over 300 km) from highway to railway
after the completion of railway double tracking, a net diversion from railway
to highway is expected because all less than carload (LCL) traffic and short
hau;. traffic would be more economical by road. However, this shift in traffic
from rail to roed would be gradual since it requires a building up of the road
vehicle fleet including container trucks. Therefore, it is assumed that in
1994, the opening year, some 33Z of passenger and container traffic between
Jinan and Qingdao would shift from the railway to the highway, with a 32 p.a.
increase to the year 2,000 and 22 to 2010. Based on this assumption and the
traffic growth rates given in Table 4.4, it is estimated that by the year 2000
the volume of traffic diverted from the railway will be approximately 600 vpd
(Table 4.6) and by 2010, 700 vpd. A major part of this traffic would include
heavy trucks, containers, and buses.
4.10     Traffic Generated by the Opening of the Highway.  The highway would
generate traffic beyond the normal increase forecast without it. As travel
time is reduced, more trips can be undertaken with the same vehicles to
respond tc the pent-up demand.
4.11     Generated traffic is estimated as a percentage of the amount of
traffic diverted to the highway in the opening year. For the purpose of this
analysis it has been estimated at 12% in 1994, growing at a rate of 102 to the
year 2,000 and 7X to 2010. It is further estimated that generated traffic
would be 1,300 to 1,800 vpd by the year 2000, and 2500 to 3600 vpd by 2010.
D. Economic Evaluation
4.12     All inputs and outputs for this analysis were evaluated in March 1989
constant economic prices.  Financial cost estimates were converted to economic
costs by shadow pricing. For traded goods, the c.i.f. prices of imports and
t.o.b. prices of exports were used in estimating the cost of materials and
equipment, with adjustments made for the cost of inland transportation. The
official exchange rates were used to convert foreign currencies to
Renminbi (Y).
4.13     Capital and Other Costs.  Table 4.7 shows the derivation of the
economic cost from the financial costs. The adjusted economic cost of the
project is Y1,654.6 million, including Y140.0 million for the cost of land
acquisition and resettlement, of which Y37.06 million is financed under the
project. The road requires routine maintenance every year and periodic
maintenance every 10 years. The routine maintenance cost is estimated at



- 29 -
Y4,000/km for a four-lane paved road. Periodic maintenance is estimated at
10? of the construction cost. The estimated net maintenance cost for the new
highway is estimated to be approximately Y7.5 million per year.
4.14     Benefits Expected from the Proposed Road.  The principal benefit of
the highway would be savings in vehicle operating cost (VOC) (Table 4.8).  Of
the Y449.7 million in total benefits in 1995, the first full year of
operation, Y169.9 million or 382 would be the VOC savings on the existing
roads, Y6.8 million or 22 would be the VOC savings for generated traffic, and
Y157.5 or 352 would be the VOC savings from road diverted traffic. Other
benefits include cost savings from railway diverted traffic, estimated at
Y115.5 million or 26Z of total benefits, and a reduction in accidents
(Table 4.9). This estimate of benefits is based on the anticipated traffic
volume on the highway (Table 4.4) and on the VOCs estimated in Table 4.8. If
SPTD decides to set a toll on this highway, the effect on traffic and
associated benefits will be as described in para. 4.15 below. The benefits
would build up rapidly after the project's completion since the existing
transport corridor is presently very congested. Benefits have been assumed to
be constant after the year 2010 when project facilities would be used to their
full capacity. The benefits from the other relatively small investments in
staff training, pavement evaluation and maintenance, and improved road
planning have not been quantified. However, the present lack of planning
personnel, lack of exposure to new technology, and absence of reliable data
and data collection systems for road planning all suggest that such
investments would have very high rates of return.
E. Overall Evaluation and Risks
4.15     The comparison of benefits and costs yields an economic rate of
return (ERR) of approximately 25? (Table 4.9). If the highway is tolled there
are additional costs for building and operation and a potential for lost
benefits (especially in the early years) as some operators will prefer to
incur higher VOCs on the local (untolled) roads rather than pay the tolls on
the new road. However, based on Bank studies and experience elsewhere in the
world, a toll set at no higher than 30? of VOC savings would: (a) result in a
traffic diversion not greater than 15? so that the ERR would remain
acceptable, and (b) produce revenues sufficient to cover at least the
operating and maintenance costs of the highway. In order to ensure this,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that the level of toll charges would
not exceed 302 of the vehicle operating cost savings for the Jinan-Qingdao
highway, and that such savings would be calculated in a manner agreed with the
Bank Group.
4.16     Based on sensitivity analyses, even with a tolled road the project
would remain viable--at an ERR of 23?. Other risks are related to delays in
completing the highway. The project seeks to minimize these risks by
providing consultant services for st:pervision and by training local
construction supervisory engineers. The results of the sensitivity analyses
are shown in the following table.



- 30 -
ERR (Z)
Best Estimate
- Non-tolled                                                            25.0
- Tolled (52 cost increase and 10  reduction of benefits)              23.0 la
Risk Analysis
- 102 cost increase and 1OZ reduction of benefit                        22.4 /b
- 20X cost increase and 1OZ reduction of benefit                        21.3 /c
/a Case 3 in Table 4.9.
/b Case 1 in Table 4.9.
/c Case 2 in Table 4.9.



- 31 -
V. AGREEMEN?AS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1      During negotiations, agreement was reached with Shandong Province on
the following:
(a) terms of reference for supervision of construction, a pavement
evaluation study, and the development of a road data bank
(paras. 3.7, 3.8, and 3.9);
(b) the type and amount of roud maintenance, traffic monitoring, and
communication equipment to be procured under the project
(para. 3.10);
(c) the type and amount of equipment for the road pavement strengthening
program and the Provincial Central Road Laboratory to be procured
under the project (paras. 3.8 and 3.11);
(d) the scJpe, timing, and cost of the proposed training program for SPTD
staff (para. 3.12);
(e) the scope and timing of the road safety program (para. 3.13);
(f) an implementation schedule for the project (para. 3.24); and
(g) a sample survey would be carried out by SPTD to determine the impact
of resettlement on the families dislocated (para. 3.37).
5.2      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Shandong
Province that:
(a) the accounts for project-related expenditures would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank Group and audit
reports would be sent to the Bank Group for review within six
months of the close of each fiscal year of the Borrower
(para. 3.32);
(b) it would carry out the resettlement under the Project in accord-
ance with a plan agreed with the Bank Group (para. 3.37); and
(c) the level of toll charges would not exceed 30? of the vehicle
operating cost savings for the Jinan-Qingdao highway, and that
such savings would be calculated in a manner agreed with the Bank
Group (para. 4.15).
5.3      A condition of effectiveness would be the approval of the State
Council of the Loan and Development Credit Agreements.
5.4      subject to the foregoing, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$60 million for a term of 20 years, including a grace
period of five years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, and a
credit of SDR 38.8 million (US$50 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms, with 35 years maturity.



SHANDONC PROVDNCIAL HICHAY PROJECT
China:  Investment In the Transport Sector VIncludinp Post an d TIlecomunlcotions)
(Y bIllon)
let FVP  2nd FYP           rd FYP   4th FYP   5th FYP
1O1-57  195-62  19513-4  1906-70  1971-75   1976-60   1960       131    1052    193a   1964    1965    im
Railway                       5.910  10.416    a.a96  11.250    17.306      4.047    8.044    1.445  2.637   4.221   6.162       7.7      e.5
"I_ay                             -         -       -       -A                  -     1.0110   0.73   0.667   0.722   1.190    2.3        2.7
Waterway                          -        -        -       -         -         -     1.391    1.23   1.546   1.907   2.62S      8.7      8.7
Aviation                          -        -        -       -         -         -    0.275   0.070  0.145   0.29  0.2W           2.1      1.4
Pipeline                          -        -        -       -         -         -    0.064   0.016   0.017   0.006   0.010    0.1         0.5
Subtotal                                                                           t.6S0   3.827   6.281   7.165   9.050    15.9    16.6
Post and telecemunlcatlons        -        -        -       -         -         -     0.364    0.420  0.490  0.819  O.696        1.2      1.4
Total 9015   16.830    5.876  15.001    81.759    30.245                          6.2J4   4.047   6.721  7.6c4  10.$4"    17.1    16.2
Total C olt l
Con truetioIn vetment  56.647  120.009  42.109 97.803   170.896   284.217    55.669  44.291  56.53  C9.418  74.315   107.4   117.6
Transport/to locomunicatlons
as 3 of totl In vestment    15.33    13.53    12.73  15.45     18.03     12.96    11.23    9.1V   10.31   18.11  14.63   16.05        16.5!
Sourco: Statistical TYorbooks of China, 12-1937.
'4



- 33 -                             Table 1.2
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Chinat Freight Traffic
(billion ton-km)
Road    Domestic      Pipe-      Civil                 Ocean
Year                  Rail       Ja    waterway lb   lines    aviation        Total   shipping
1952                  60.2       1.4        11.8        -         -            73.4        2.8
Modal split
(2)                (82.0)    (2.0)      (16.0)        -         -          (100.0)      -
1977                 456.8      25.1       102.1       38.7       0.1         622.8      174.1
Modal split
(2)                (73.0)    (4.0)      (17.0)       (6.0)      -          (100.0)
1979                 559.8      74.5       139.0       47.6       0.1         821.0      317.4
1980                 571.7      76.4       152.3       49.1       0.1         849.6      353.2
1981                 571.2      78.0       150.1       49.9       0.2         850.0      364.3
1982                 612.0      94.9       170.8       50.1       0.2         928.0      376.9
;983                 664.6    108.4        181.1       52.4       0.2       1,006.1      397.7
1984                 724.7    153.6        196.1       57.2       0.3       1,132.0      437.4
1985                 812.6    177.0        225.5       60.3       0.4       1,275.8      532.9
1986                 870.5    195.8        248.9       61.2       0.5       1,382.9      594.8
Modal split
(Z)               (64)      (14)       (17)         (5)         -         (100)
Growth rate
2 p.a.
1952-77             8.4      12.2 '      9.0         -         -             8.9      17.9
1979-84             5.2       9.6        7.3         3.7       -             6.6        6.5
1983-84             9.1      41.7        8.3         9.0       -            12.5      10.0
1984-85            12.1      15.2       15.0         7.2       -            12.7      21.8
1985-86             7.9      10.6       10.4         1.5       -             8.4       11.6
1980-85             7.3      18.4        8.2         4.5       -             8.5       8.6
la  From 1979 includes all road transport, not only that of road transport departments.
lb  Excludes ocean going transport, which is often included in Chinese statistics.  In
1979, coastal shipping accounted for 85 billion tkm and inland waterways for 54
billion tkm. The figures for 1982 were 106 and 65 billion tkm, respectively.
Source: Statistical Yearbooks of China, 1982-1987.



- 34 -                                Table 1.3
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
China: Passenger Traffic
(billion passenger-km)
Year                         Rail       Road    Waterway   Aviation           Total
1952                         20.1        2.3           2.5        -            24.9
Modal split
(S)                       (81.0)      (9.0)       (10.0)       -           (100.0)
1977                        102.3       44.8           9.8        1.8         158.7
Modal split
(Z)                       (64.0)    (28.0)         (7.0)      (1.0)        (100.0)
1979                        121.6       60.3          11.4        3.5         196.8
1980                        138.3       72.9          12.9        4.0         228.1
1981                        147.3       83.9          12.9        5.0         250.0
1982                        157.5       96.4          14.5        6.0         274.4
1983                        177.6      110.6          15.4        5.9         309.5
1984                        204.6      133.7          15.4        8.4         362.0
1985                        241.6      157.3         17.4       11.7          428.0
1986                        258.7      168.6          17.1       14.6         459.0
Modal split
(?)                       (56.0    (37.0)         (4.0)      (3.0)       (100.0)
Growth rate
S p.a.
1952-77                    6.7       12.6          5.6       -               7.7
1979-84                   11.0       16.5          5.9       19.2          12.7
1983-84                   15.2       21.0         -          42.4          17.0
1984-85                   18.1       15.4         11.7       40.0          17.3
1985-86                    7.1        7.2         (1.7)      24.8            7.2
1980-85                   11.8       16.6          5.9       23.9           13.2
Source: Statistical Yearbooks of China, 1982-1987.



CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
China: Highway Des.'jgn Standards
Expressway           Class 1              Class 2              Class 3             Class 4
Plain-   Hilly-    Plain-   Hilly-    Plain-   Hilly-    Plain-   Hilly-    Plain-   dilly-
hilly   mountain   hilly   mountain   hilly   mountain   hilly   mountain   hilly   mountain
area    area        area    area         area    area        area    area         area    area
Number of vehicles                          *
a.:comodated           ---->25,000-----   --5,000-25,000--   --2,000-5,000- - ---- >2.000-----   ----->200-------
Design travel
speed (kmlhr)           120       80         100       60          80      40          60       30           40      20
Surface width Im)       2x7.S   2x7.0        2x7.5   2x7.0            9        7           7       6       3.5        3.5
Subgrade width (m)          26      23          23       19          12      8.5        8.5      7.5       -------6.5-------
Minimun radius of hori-
zontal curves (m)       650      250         400      125         250      60         125       30           60      15
Maximum gradient (2)         3        5           4       6           5        7           6       8             6      9
Miuimum passing sight
distance (m)            210      110         160       75         110       40         75       30           40      20
Nonsuperelevated                                                                                                                  -
radius of hori-
zontal curve (m)      5,500   2,500        4,000   1,500       2,500      600       1,500      350          600    150
Source: Technical Standard on Road Engineering, Highway Bureau, Ministry of Communications, Beijing, 1981.



- 36 -                                Table 1.5
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
China: Motor Vehicles Manufactured and Imported, 1980-85
('000)
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Domestic Production
Total vehicles          222.3   175.6   196.2   239.8   316.4   437.2   369.8
of which trucks       135.5   108.3   121.8   137.1   181.8   269.0   229.1
as 2 of total          (61.0)  (62.0)  (57.0)  (57.2)  (57.4)  (61.5)  (61.9)
Imports
Cars                       -       1.4      1.1     5.8    21.6   105.8    48.3
Trucks                   22.0    20.8       7.7     8.4    28.0   111.5    64.6
Dump trucks                   -    1.5      1.1     2.3      4.8    10.9      7.3
Chassis with engines          -    0.3      0.4     0.9      2.1      2.6     1.5
Others                        -   17.6      5.8     7.6    92.2   123.4    28.4
Total                    41.6    16.1    25.1   148.7   353.9   150.1
Source:  Statistical Yearbooks of China, 1982-87.



Table 1.6
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
China: Total Freight Transport Handled by Public
and Social Trucks
Freight volume           Freight density      Average distance
(million tons)          (billion ton-km)             (km)
Public  Social              Public    Social       Public    Social
Year           truck    truck    Total    truck        truck      truck      truck
1978            852    2,406    3,258       27.4       44.6        32.1      18.5
1979           816    2,748    3,564        26.8       47.7        32.8      17.4
1980            760    2,060    2,820       25.5       50.9        33.5      24.7
1981            715    2,922    3,637       25.3       52.7        35.4      18.0
1982            788    3,004    3,792       30.3       64.6        38.4      21.5
1983            791    3,219    4,010       33.5       74.9        42.3      23.3
1984            789    4,545    5,334       35.4      118.2        44.9      26.0
1985            762    4,987    5,749       35.4      141.5        46.6      28.4
Notet Percentage of truck distribution in 1985:
Public trucks =  72
Social trucks - 93Z
Source: China Statistical Yearbooks, 1982-1987.



CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Shandong: Demographic and Transport Network Data, 1985
Popula-                 Per capita      Road       Transport network density (km/'000 km2)
tion         Area       GOVAI La      length                                Navigable in-
(million)   ('000 km2)       (Y)       ('000 km)       Road       Railway    land waterway
Country Total                  1,045.3         9 600       1,164.0        942.4        98.2         5.4            11.4'
Xizang autonomous
region lb                      2.0        1,200          433.0        21.7         18.1          -               -
Jiangsu province /c              62.1         100        2,043.0         22.4       224.0         7.1           236.5        0
Shandong province Id            76.9          150        1,164.5         36.3       242.0        13.2            12.3
Sichuan province 1d            101.9          560          745.3         89.3       159.5         5.1            14.3
Shaanxi province                30.0          190          852.9         37.1       195.3         9.8             3.6
Jiangxi province                34.6          160          764.5         31.8       198.7         9.0            30.9
/a Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry.
lb  The poorest province in China in terms of GOVAI.
/c  The richest province in China in terms of GOVAI.
Id  Shandong province has the fifth-largest road network in China in terms of road density per land area (Beijing,
Shanghai and Tienjin municipalities are excluded), whereas Sichuan province is the largest in terms of total length
of road network.
Source: SPTD.



39 -                                Table 2.2
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Shandong: Road Network, 1987
Classi-        Length    Z of total
fication        (km)       necwork     Pavement standard       Quality
Class I             268       0.7      Asphaltic concrete      All-weather road
Class II          4,191      11.2      Penetration macadam    All-weather road
Class 'III       12,561      33.5      Bituminous-coated       All-weather road
macadam
Class IV         19,103      50.9      Bituminous-lime         3,980 km paved
t-eatment or           road, 13,155 km
gravel surface        all weather road,
and the rest
impassable after
heavy rain
Unclassified      1,407       3.7      Improved earth surface Impassable after
road                   rain
Total       37,530    100.0
Administrative
National Road     3,946      10.5
Provincial Road  11,513      30.7
County Road      13,740      36.6
Village Road       7,134     19.0
Special Purpose
Road            1,197       3.2
Total       37,530    100.0
Source: SPTD.



- 40 -
Table 2.3
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Shandong: Vehicle Fleet, 1984-1988
('000)
Annual
Year         Trucks        Buses       Cars       Tractors       Total    Growth Rate (Z)
1984        127.021         9,016    25,302        209,484      370,823         --
1985        149,077        10,185    38,161        369,832      567,255         53.00
1986        169,394        10,896    53,072        443,327      676,689         19.30
1987        195,649        12,948    67,534        501,425      777,556         14.90
1988        224,932        14,503    72,958        564,200     876,593          12.74
Source: SPTD.



-41 -                                    Table 2.4
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Shandong: Preight Handled by Public and Social Trucks, 1985
Freight volume           Freight density    Average distance
(million tons)          (billion ton-km)           (km)
Own                           Own                   Own
Public  account              Public   account    Public   account
truck    truck      Total    truck      truck      truck     truck
Country Total              762.2   1,987    5,749         35.5    141.5        46.6      28.4
Xizang autonomous
region /a                  0.4      -        -           0.3        -       750.0        -
Jisngsu Province /b         48.0      166      -           2.0        -        41.7        -
Shandong Province           45.9       81      127         3.1       3.0       67.4      37.0
Sichuan Province            44.5      443    487.5         2.7      34.2       60.7      39.9
Shaanxi Province            16.8       29       46         0.8       1.2       47.6      40.9
Jiangxi Province            12.6       74       87         0.7       3.7       55.6      49.7
/a The poorest prorince in China.
lb  The richest province in China.
Source: SPTD.



CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
ShandonQ:  Road Maintenance Revenues and Expenditures, 1980-1986
(Y 100,000)
------- Revenues ----E-^   ----------------------------------  Expenditures  -----------------------------------
From road                                                           County and
maintenance                               Periodic      Routine     village road    Emergency.
Year    TotalLa        Fees         Total  ,Rehabilitation  maintenance  maintenance    maintenance          works     OtherLb
1980     2,121.7       2,107.5    2,098.4         670.6        137.5         206.9            221.7           2.6        859.1
1981     2,149.8       2,138.8    2,071.2         428.6        273.2         220.7            123.6           3.0      1,022.1
1982     2,502.5       2,490.3    2,079.4         506.2        302.5         233.5            184.2           9.7        843.3 .
1983     2,995.6       2,975.4    2,974.1         554.3        295.6         249.0            219.5          11.1      1,644.6
1984     3,539.7       3,517.2    3,819.9         842.6        314.4         276.5            240.8          14.7      2,130.9
1985     6,675.6       6,130.5    6,117.1         899.1        518.1         356.7            328.3          67.4      3,947.5
1986     7,331.4       7,255.5    7,996.0       2,436.6        850.3         375.5            497.7          35.1      3,800.8
la   Does not include HOC subsidy.
lb   Includes new construction (not exceeding 25? of total expenditures), salaries and overhead.                                 0
Source:  SPTD.



_ 43 -                                     Table 2.6
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Shandongs Capital Construction Investment in Transport Sector, 1985
Total capital                        Per-capita capital
construction investment                construction investment
Rail-  High   Water  Avia-             Rail-  High   Water  Avia-
Total   way   way      way   tion   Total    way   way         way   tion
---- (Y 100 million) -           -------  --------------  (Y) --------------
Country Total       159.3   77.1   23.1   36.2   20.6    15.2    7.4    2.2    3.5    2.0
Xizang autono-
mous region L!      0.64   0.02   0.59    -        0.03   32.0    1.0   29.8        -     1.5
Jiangsu
province Lb         4.6    0.5    0.8    3.0    0.1        7.4    0.8    1.3    4.8    0.1
Shandoag
province            9.8    5.8    0.5    2.7    0.2    12.7    7.5    0.6    3.5    0.3
Sichuan
province            3.9    0.9    1.7    0.9    0.4        3.8    0.9    1.7    0.9    0.4
Shaanxi
province            1.4    0.9    0.4    0.01   0.1        4.7    3.0    1.3    0.03   0.3
Jiangxi
province            0.5    0.1    0.2    0.1        -      1.4    0.3    0.6    0.2        -
la  The poorest province in China.
Lb  The richest province in China.
Sources SPTD.



- 44 -
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Equipment for the Road Pavement Strengthening Program
(US$ '000)
Unit        sub-
Name                                          Number      Price       Total
Road Roughness Meter (supplied
complete in independent trailer)                 1         160         160
Road Profile Measuring Device
(or Beam Profilometer)                          1           20         20
Traffic and Axle-load Detector
with Automatic Recording and
Sorting                                          2          10          20
Total                                          4          --        200
Source: SPTD and mission.



45 -                         Table 3.2
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance Equipment
(US$ '000)
Unit        Sub-
Name                                         Number       Price       Totel
Asphalt and Concrete Mixer                       2         500       1,000
Asphalt and Concrete Paver                       2         180         360
Multi-Functional Maintenance Car
(for black-top road)                          7           80        560
Pavement Cold-Milling                            7         100         700
Automatic Pavement-marking Car                   7          50         350
Total                                        25            -      2,970
Source:  SPTD and mission.



Table 3.3
- 46 -
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Monitoring and Communication Eguipment
(US$ '000)
Unit     Total
Name                                       Unit    Number    Price    Price
Minicomputer and Peripheral Equipment        set        1      400        400
Master Control Software                      set        1      300        300
Branch Master Control Software               set        5      110        550
Control Desk                                  --        6       80        480
Variable Information Board                   set        7      100        700
Variable Speed Restriction Sign               ea       12       25        300
Light-Cable                                  km       340               2,220
Program Controlled Switchboard /a          gate    1,480                1,050
Computer (Apollo DN3500)                     set        1                 150
Total                                                                6,150
la Including remote terminals module and data transmission equipment.
Source: SPTD and mission.



- 47 -                         Table 3.4
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Research Equipment
(US$ '000)
Unit        Sub-
Name                                         Number      Price       Total
Nuclear Density Meter                          10           11        110
Drill for Pevement Testing                      8           45        360
Skid-Proof Testing Car                          1         130         130
Total                                        19                     600
Source: SPTD and mission.



CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Staff TraininR Program for SPTD
(US '000 dollars)
No. of               Man-                  -------Implementation-------
Description                              Persons   Months   Months    Cost          1989    1990    1991    1992
Transport Planning and Economics            3           4        12         72      ------                    
Soils and Materials Engineering             3           6        18        108                               ------
Concrete Technology                         4           4        16         96                       ------- 
I      I        I        I      I      c
Highway Design (CAD)                        4           4        16         96              -------           
Structural Design                           4           4        16         96                       -------
Highway Maintenance                         6           4        24        144                               ------
Equipment Management                        4           4        16         96                       ------- 
Contract Administration and
Supervision                               5           4       20        120      1------
Financial Management and Accounting         4           3        12         72              -------           
I      I        l        I      I   
Total                                  37                  150       900 S    a   M  Eit
Source: SPTD and Mission Estimates.



- 49 -                         Table 3.6
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Estimated cumu-              Disbursement profile
IBRD fiscal year             lative disbursements           of Regional highway
and semester             US$ million           X              projects (Z)
1990
December 31, 1989             8.8              8                   0
June 30, 1990                11.0             10                   1
1991
December 31, 1990            13.2             12                    6
June 30, 1991                22.0             20                  24
1992
December 31, 1991            35.2             32                   44
June 30, 1992                48.4             44                  62
1993
December 31, 1992            63.8             58                   73
June 30, 1993                77.0             70                  79
1994
December 31, 1993            90.2             82                  88
June 30, 1994               101 2             92                   93
1995
December 31, 1994           110.0            100                 100
June 30, 1995
Source: Mission estimates.



CHINA
SHUNDONG PROVINCIAL HICHWAY PROJECT
FOWR-CITY ECOWMIC PROFIL.E
(1984-2000)
Agricultural and      Forecast                              Agricultural
Ponulat;on        Industrial outut    average        Industrial Otut    and Industrial Output  Industrial Output
1984   Iwso~ -2000    1984    1890   20      annual    1884    1sso   200-0  1984   lss9    200    1984   1990   2000
-- (M) -   -      -- (MY)  ---increaso  -(MY)----)-Y-P-------- --  -- (Y/P) -
Provincial Total      76              77.282                              45,824                  1,012                    897
Jinan                8      4     4 6,080    10,190   21,012       18    6,468    8,514  17,028 1,948    2,841   6,294 1,591   2,372   4,289
Zibo                 8      a     8 8,200      9,65c   19,612      18    5,840    7,700  16,620 2,269    8,a20   6,190 2,064   2,704   4,890   L
Weitang              8      8     9  8,688    11,727   24,170      14   5,616    7,384  14,768 1,108    1,403   2,618   716    888   1,698
Q4ng do              8      7     7 11,787    17,842   88,882      28    8,496   18,480  28,980 1,823    2,881   5,002 1,862   2,049   3,708
Four-city Total       20     22   24 a2.944    49,089  101,16             2,20      7,078  75,278 7,148   10,246  19,102 5,733   8,008  14,486
as X of Prov. Total 28.5X                 485                       lo6       Esx                   l6s1                   209%
Source: Jlnan-Q4ngdao Class 1 Highway Feasibility Study, October 1986.
'I3
0
.'



Table 4.2
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Qingdao Port Traffic
Traffic                Traffic
Year                       Handling   Freight       2       Passenger       Z
capacity     (MT)      change      (MP)       change
1980                                     17.71                 0.43
1981                                     18.79      6.10       0.55       27.91
1982                                     21.92     16.71       0.63       14.55
1983                                     22.60      3.06       1.40      122.22
1984                          24         25.14     11.24       1.91       36.43
1985                          26         26.57      5.69       2.18       14.14
Average Annual Rate                    22.12      8.56       1.18       43.05
1990                                     44.20    107.75
2000                          63         71.20     28.99
Source: Port Statistics, July 1988.



CHINA
SHAHDOG PROVNDCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Annual Traffic Volume Survey for Existing Jinan-Qinsdbo Road
Unit:  vehiclos/day
Av. rat of
1980             1981            1982             1988            1984         (X) incr s
Segment start Length   Mixed    9;Wr              Motor           03TM  rI         Motor           Uotor
Road           and end points  (km)   traffic  vehicle  Mixed  vehicle  Mixed  vehicle  Mixed  vehicle  Mixed  vehicle  Mixed  vehicle
Jina'-Qingdao  Jinan-Xindian   129.1   8,290    2,006   8,466   2,198   8,610   2,098   4,483    2,809  3,951    2,473    4.7         6.4
Jinan-Qingdao Xindian-Weifang  68.9   2,281    1,421   2,417   1,6S1   8,221   2,115   4,269    2,882  4,678    3,698   20.8         27.0
Jinan-Qingdao  Weifong-
Xiyuanzhunng  146.7   1,824       984   2,108   1,380   2,484   1,695   2,821    1,630  2,488    1,810   11.2       18.0
Nat. Hwy 408   Xiyuanzhuang-
Qingdno        81.7   7,048    5,085                                    8,08a    6,782  8,068    6,762    3.4        8.4
Jinan-Wangoun  Jinan-Wangoun    59.4                                                      2,762    1,84   4,210    2,827   60.0    77.4
Artery 601     Wangoun-
Jiaoxinn      274.9                     1,692     872   1,882     818   1,662       761  1,658      789   -0.7       4.6    90
Nat. Hwy 204   Jiaoxian-
Chengyang      82.6   2,348    1,292   8,769   2,328   3,522   2,222   4,001    2,628  4,078    2,692   14.8        20.1
Not. Hwy 808   Chengyang-
Qinedao        26.9   7,040    6,086                                    8,083    5,762  8,068    6,752    3.4        8.4
Averge  rate of growth                                                                                                      18.4     19.9
Note: All motor vehicle traffic volume are converted values.
Source: Jinan-Qingao Class I Highwy Feasibility Study, October 1986.
a,



- 53 -
Table 4.4
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic on the Existing Road without the Project
(Vehicles/day)
Without Project
Traffic on existing road
Year              VPD            Z growth p.a.
North Road
Qingdao-Weifang             1990               3,590             11.4
1994              5,529             11.4
2000             10,540              5.0
2004             12,811              5.0
2010             20,160              5.0
Weifang-Zibuo                1990              7,320             11.4
1994             11,273             11.4
2000             21,520              5.0
2004             26,158              5.0
2010             41,160              5.0
Zibo-Jinan                  1990              4,900              11.4
1994              7,546             11.4
2000             14,400              5.0
2004             17,503              5.0
2010             27,540              5.0
South Road
Qingdao-Weifang             1990               5,330             11.4
1994              8,209             11.4
2000             15,670              5.0
2040             19,047              5.0
2010             32,590              5.0
Weifang-Zibuo               1990               1,520             11.4
1994              2,341             11.4
2000              4,480              5.0
2004              5,445              5.0
2010              9,320              5.0
Zibo-Jinan                  1990              5,600              11.4
1994              8,624             11.4
2000             16,460              5.0
2004             20,007              5.0
2010             34,240              5.0
Source: Mission estimate.



- 54 -                             Table 4.5
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Through Motor Vehicle Traffic
(1984, Vehicles/day)
Motor   Between 4-Cities    Inter-Regional      Intra-Regional
vehicle  Through   Z of    (through) Traffic   (local Traffic
Road Segments           traffic  traffic  traffic               Z of             X of
per day   (VPD)              VPD       traffic    VPD   traffic
Jinan-Quingdao                       207         9
A.  Jinan-Weifang                    148         6
Weifang-Quingdao                 460        19
B.  Jinan-Zibo                     1,321        54
Zibo-Qingdao                     197         8
C.  Jinan-Zibo                     1,321        54
Zibo-Weifang                     296        12
Weifang-Qingdao                  460        19
D.  Jinan-Mingshui       3,025                         1,391        46    1,634      54
Mingshui-Zhoucun     1,607                         1,286        80      321      20
Zhoucun-Zhangdian    2,720                         1,442        53    1,278      47
Zhangdian-Xindian    3,412                         2,047        60    1,365      40
Zindian-Yidu         4,140                         3,726                414      10
Yidu-Weifang         3,585                         2,510        70    1,075      30
Weifang-Lancun       1,738                           834        48      904      52
Lancun-Xiyuanzhuang  2,154                         1,615        75      539      25
Ziyuanzhuang-Qingdao 5,752                         4,314        75    1,438      25
Source: Jinan-Quingdao Class 1 Highway Feasibility Study, October 1985.



- 55 -                        Table 4.6
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic on Proposed Road
Forecast Growth
Road Segments                1994    2000     2004     2010
Qingdao-Weifang
Road Diversion            5,458  10,418   12,663  21,660
Rail Diversion               500     597      646     728
Generated Traffic            735   1,295    1,697   2,547
Subtotal               6,693  12,310   15,006  24,935
Weifang-Zibo
Road Diversion            8,647  16,505   20,062  33,950
Rail Diversion               500     597      646     728
Generated Traffic          1,039   1,831    2,400   3,602
Subtotal              10,186  18,933   23,108  38,660
2ibo-Jinan
Road Diversion             7,731  14,753   17,932  30,690
Rail Diversion               500     597      646     728
Generated Traffic            951   1,676    2,197   3,297
Subtotal               9,182  17,026   20,775 34,7158
Total Traffic         26,061  48,269   58,889  98,310
Source: Mission estimates.



Loca    FooM Tol Lmi Fr*R?-p     =     Loi  Fn sm    oar   AMI     rM o-nT=     Lmi  fo,esp   reate i oiPV$    ToUTs Lm         llt   
Project Cast (exciudIng
Price Contirou cies. tad
R.gtti.nt Cast11.1?   MU.1    U.30  67.82   78.0?  140.40 224.9?  244.19  469.16 24.00 276.71  529.72  63.0?   57.61  110.33  31.06   33.29   64.76 641.60  69.42 imO
Ecosic Cost Con,srsion Fe t1r 1.1l2
goonmic CoaL           n            MM        3JL    3.1 Vm      LS4  254-8  2ELh2  MLM9  17,5 ~M   1Z         N-M     MM     HU   IMM   ALI    MLI    ZA3  729.2  711113 IJIE11!
csition Vu
Restt emnt Cast               140.0      0.0   140.0                                                                                                                                         140.0        J1
cenoi Cast o. tMe P,.eetb   lEJIW  ILZS  186J     ZLZ1   3.1    JMM1,3246   278.4              EL 0  2.7M ULM U12     SW."   ".U M           53SI                   ZLU 15B.2  J11131  1611CIII
a.
Exceitag  rote:  USSI * VS.70
All^1  figure   r *rouned
Slgll:  Ni_iea  "mtest.
I-a
3



CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Cost Summary a/
(YuanllO00 Veh-km)
----------- Truck ----------        Trailer/                Small    Large
Small      Medium       Large       Container      Car       Bus       Bus
Flat Terrain:
Good-condition road                   273.1        380.1      518.4        1,078.7       273.1    434.6  1,145.2
Fair condition road                   341.3        475.1      647.9        1,348.4       341.3    543.3  1,431.5
Poor condition road                   381.8        527.0      709.3        1,457.7       384.8    679.1  1,558.0
Billy Terrain:
Good condition road                   295.0        440.9      603.6        1,306.1       295.1    47',.0  1,366.4
Fair condition road                   368.7        551.2      754.5        1,632.6       368.9    598.7  1,708.1
Poor condition road                   412.4        611.5      825.9        1,764.9       416.0    709.9  1,859.0
Mountainous Terrain:
Good condition road                   379.0        534.9      732.9        1,570.4       349.8    608.2  1,652.8
Fair condition road                   473.8        668.5      916.2        1,963.0       437.3    760.2  2,066.0
Poor condition road                   519.1        727.9      993.6        2,106.9       491.7    891.4  2,352.2
a/ Economic VOC Factor - (1.212); Economic costs at mid-1988 prices.                                                 $4
Source:  Shandong Provincial Highway Department.



c - ~~ls sYA  .c_ 
Cmnc-  Rad          otal   st    ditd  Omeret_  Divrtd            t       la               fits    c      ti_ fit.   em    cast    fit.   Cael&
ties casts _  iat.IA  cast   read   traffic   traffic   trafic   b_1itt  flea    O(106)    -(126l)  ftCe   *        -(125)   fcm  *(U)    -(26   flow
low     146.4    -       1.4   -         -        -         -          -    -15.4    118.0        -    -1u.0    199.7       -      1".7  174.7     -      174.?
19"     15.9    -          .    -        -        -                    -    -151.9    174.0      190.7   -        190.7   1s.0   -        11.6
1191   83.1    -       S80.1   -        -        -         -          -    -.          .2        -    44.2    or.8         -    -3.s   W.7        -    -57.7
aer    599.6    -       569.0   -                 _         -          -    -s.e       M.e        -    -M.$    n9.s         -    -no.8  eM.$       -    -u.s
190    *10.8    -        155.8   -       -        -         -          -    -15.8      1.e        -      r.8    189.4       -    -150.4  181.0     -    -181.8
19l4   73.8      8.s    77.1  7n.?        8.6      2.9      69.0      12M.0  15.1       84.4      250.0   n7.0    91.      15.0   90.2   8.0    25.0  lo.0
1es     -        7.5      7.5  1u9.9    15.5       6.8    187.5       49.7  442.2        7.5     40.7  8.2         7.5    M04.7  397.2   7.9    404.7  83.9
1966    -        7.5      7.8  181.1    124.5      0.0     176.7      800.8  492.8       7.s     480.8  442.8      7.5    480.8  44.0   7.9 6      450.   442.4
1997    -        7.5      7.5  20S.8    184.2      9.4    206.0    s8.9  549.4           7.5      8S0.2  46s.7     7.8     S01.2  460.7   7.9    501.2  468.8
196o    -        7.5      7.5  2D0.6    1a.6      11.0      MA.0      600.1  6s.e        7.5     US6.1  660.6      7.5     5.1     66 a06.    7.9   sm-      .2
1999    -        7.5      7.8   M.$    155.9    12.9         6.9      601.0  618.5       7.5     62.9  614.4       7.5      2.    614.4    7.9    2.9  014.0
2000     -        7.5     7.8   M.?   166.0    18.1    80.8           770.8  7.o         7.5      60.8  18.0        7.5    668.8  811.e     7.9    5s.8  6.4
s001     -        7.5      7.8  318.0    1.        17.7    847.4      059.2   51.7       7.5      77.5  765.0       7.6     73.8  7.6    7.9    778.s  76.4
2002     -        7.5     7.5  846.6   195.2    20.7    896.4         96.9  951.4        7.5      M.o  M.s          7.5    6.0  655.        7.9    66.0  A.                     0c
2000     -        7.5     7.8  818.0    210.4    24.2    452.8    100.7 S8.2             7.5      968.  918.1      7.5    963.6  96.1    7.9    963.6  95.0$
1004     -       7.5      7.5  424.9   226.9    27.9    516.8    1196.0 1180.8           7.5    10.4 1060.9         7.8    17.4   18A.9   7.9   10.4  106.5
206      -       r7.5     7.5  480.1   240.4    81.1    579.2           0.0 1.38         7.5     1197.7 u60.2       7.5    u17.7 1160.2   7.9   u97.7  uo8.0
on                7.5     7.5  542.5   254.6      8.1    649.0    1402.2 1474.7          7.6    1154.0   0.5        7.5    1154.0 150.5    7.6    14.0  5l.I
2007     -       7.5      7.5  615.0   210.0    89.4    729.0    1681.4 164.9            7.8    1406.8 1.          7.5   1486.8 1473.    7.9   1466.8 1473.4
2sm 41  -       a.5    07.5  A.   236.1    44.2             17.8    180.7 17.2          87.5     16.6  515.1     67.5    U165.6 1869.1   61.9      M.6 1884.0
2009 ,;  -      87.8    07.5  75.6   80.2    46.6    917.4    2062.0 1665.8              7.5   1U4t.5 171.0        n.5    1847.5 1.0   61.9   847.5 1765.6
2010  -      r~~~.5   7.5  e84.2    ?m.s    311A      ims.2      gms.$ "2.0         r.s     SIMlS SIoN         r.s     MAl.  206.0   r.e    #. 2 065.^ 
20U      -        7.5      7.8  e84.2   501.8    55.0    1.2    2S60.3 22.8              7.5    2961.0 2050.0       7.5    206.8 2065.6    7.9   20.8 268.4
20       -       7.5      7.5  184.2   82.8    55.6   109.2    2090.8 20.0               7.5    20.3 2060.3         7.5    206.8 200.0   7.9   20.8 2066.4
201      -       7.5       7.5 614.2   821.8       3.6   102.2    2090.8 22.             7.5    2061.8 2068.3       7.5    2.3 20.6   7.9   20.8 2060.4
O14     -        7.8      7.5  184.2   501.8      8.6   1029.2    2090.8 2.0             7.5    2061.8 2M66.6      7.5    2061.3 2068.    7.9   2061.8 2058.4
j   15.0    -             -                  e                               m 25.0           *           20.43           ma*    21.86           a         20.26                0
WV (I) a   268.8                         217.9                    201.6                   22.7
41,000 V/Pm fr 80 ka  5 .o0 m;MOR ye  p.m. plus Miat..,mc of fac Ilities a 2.8 miIo lion Ye, r .*.
1 Th. firbt ypers' besafits cIy caunt for haltf of the total baofift.
LB 1he jror repir of the pr'P'sa rod. Sl,000 Yan/a fr 88 kw during thel two yesrs.
Sorce: Mpmic .t.imwte.



- 59 -
Annex 1
Page I of 6
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT DEPARTMENT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION
I. INTRODUCTION
The Shandong Provincial Transport Department (SPTD) plans to
construct a new four-lane divided, controlled access highway about 319 km in
length from Jinan to Qingdas. The project will comprise 8 civil works contracts.
The project will be supervised by a joint team of foreign and local consultants
and SPTD supervisory staff (referred to as the Supervision Team in the
following). It is estimated that about 104 man-months of foreign and 81 man-
months of local consultant services will be needed. An additional 7 man-months
of foreign consultant services would be required for training SPTD supervisory
personnel at home and abroad.
II. OBJECTIVES
The purpose of the services is to ensure that all civil works are
carried out in full compliance with the technical specifications and in
accordance with international conditions of contract (FIDIC).
III. DEFINITIONS
In these Terms of Reference the following words shall have the meanings
hereby assigned to them:
(a)   Contractor:             The construction firm(s) with whirh SPTD will
contract for the highway construction.
(b)   Contract:               Contract to be agreed between the parties mentioned
under (a) above.
(c)   Works:                  The works to be executed in accordance with the
Contract.
(d)   Engineer:               Chief Supervision Engineer, SPTD.
(e)   Resident Engineer:      The engineer appointed by the Engineer in (d)
above.
(f)   Emplover:               The SPTD.



- 60-
Annex I
Page 2 of 6
IV. SCOPE OF WORK
The joint Supervision Team is to supervise the works and to approve the
materials and workmanship of the works under the overall direction of the
Engineer.  Members of the Supervision Team have no authority to relieve the
contractor of any of his duties or obligations under the contract nor to order
any work involving delays or extra payment by the Employer without the consent
of the Employer.
General Duties
(a)   to decide on the Contractor's applicEtion for subletting parts of the
Works, after prior consultation with the Employer;
(b)   to explain and/or adjust ambiguities and/or discrepancies of Contract
Documents and to provide assistance to the Employer in the settlement of
disputes with the Contractor;
Cc)   to approve the Contractor's working drawings and, if necessary, to issue
further drawings and/or to give instructions to the Contractor;
(d)   to provide data for the setting out of the Works;
(e)   to approve or reject the Contractor's superintendence, key personnel
and/or construction program, materials and/or sources of materials;
(f)   to control and appraise the progress of the Works, to order if required
the suspension of the Works, and/or to determine the amount of extension
of the period for completion of the Works after prior consultation and
agreement with the Employer;
(g)   to issue variation orders, to evaluate variations, to fix rates for
unpriced Works, to order day-works, and/or to decide on alternatives;
(h)   to prepare and issue certificates of payment to the Contractor and to
certify the completion of the Works or parts thereof;
(i)   to inspect the Works during and/or after the Maintenance Period and to
issue the Maintenance Certificate;
(j)   to inspect the performance of the Works with regard to worksmanship and
compliance with the Specifications and to order, supervise, or perform
tests on materials and/or Works before covering up and to approve or
reject the Contractor's plant and equipment;
(k)   to order if required the uncovering of completed Works and/or the removal
and substitution of improper materials and/or Works;



- 61 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 6
(1)   to check systematically the progress of the Works and to order the
initiation of certain Works which are part of the Contract;
(m)   to examine and attend the measurement of any work which is about to be
covered up or put out of view before permanent work is placed thereon
andlor to examine and attend the measurement of the completed Works;
(n)   to check the Contractor's accounts, invoices, claims and other statements
with respect to arithmetic errors and compliance with the Contract and
if required, to make corrections thereof;
(o)   to supervise the Contractor in all matters concerning safety and care of
Works and, if required, to request from the Contractor the necessary
lights, guards, fencing, and watching; and
(p)   to carry out such duties under the terms of the Contract as may from time
to time be delegated in writing by the Engineer.
The local and foreign consultants shall help prepare all the
administrative systems and procedures needed to ensure the effective supervision
of the contract works in accordance with the scope of work outlined above and
with generally accepted international standards.
Training
The foreign consultants would carry out the following staff training
taskst
(a)   two consultants, each with at least twelve years experience in supervising
highway construction projects, would hold a six-week training course on
highway construction supervision in Shandong province during August-
September 1989.   About 100 Chinese highway construction supervisory
personnel would participate in the course; and
(b)   two consultants would arrange the training of about 20 Chinese supervisor
personnel in two separate groups, 10 trainees each, to make a two-month
field visit abroad to construction sites where the works are similar to
those  included  in  the  Shandong Provincial  Highway  Project.    The
consultants would accompany the trainees on the field visits. The first
group would travel in October-November 1989, and the second group in
March-April 1990.
Furthermore, the foreign consultants shall prepare a detailed training program
for the personnel assigned to the joint consultant/SPTD team.  The program,
appropriately phased with the ongoing works, should cover both formal and
informal (on-the-job) training in construction supervision, and include, in
particular:
(a)   the organization and administration of the supervision of major road works
contracts;



- 62 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 6
(b)   quality control and testing requirements in compliance with the technical
specifications; and
(c)   procedures  for  recording  quality  control  testing  results,  issuing
variation orders, maintaining progress reports, etc.
Staffing
SPTD shall assign the requisite number of supervisory staff to the
Supervision Team.  Personnel additional to the foreign and local consultants
such as inspectors, surveyors, and soil technicians shall either be provided by
*he SPTD or be hired locally.  The number of experienced and qualified staff
for the work involved shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of the
project. The foreign and local consultants' staff should be graduate engineers
or the equivalent with at least 12 years of practical site experience on major
road works in the following fields: supervision and administration of major road
contracts, structural engineering including foundations, pavement design, and
construction including earthworks, drainage, soils and materials engineering,
etc.
SPTD would purchase all equipment, office materials, instruments and
similar appurtenance required over and above that furnished by the contractors
under the terms of the construction contracts. The contractors shall furnish
the Supervision Team vehicles and be responsible for maintenance, the cost of
operation and the supply of operators. A field laboratory with the required
equipment to carry out field materials testing shall be furnished by SPTD. The
operations and maintenance cost of all equipment except vehicles shall be the
responsibility of SPTD.
Control of the Work
The Supervision Team shall establish all Intersection Points and Bench
Harks  on the ground.    The Supervision Team  shall  supervise  the  initial
engineering stakeout to establish line and grade, setting stakes for alignment
and structures, and check and verify subsequent stakeout control by field survey
parties supplied by the contractor to ensure satisfactory control of Works.
It shall submit for the review and approval of the SPTD any necessary
changes, improvements on the drawings, specifications and other work in
reasonable time to permit compliance with the design and construction schedule.
It shall, however, initiate making minor changes in grade or alignment
as are necessary to balance quantities, changes in size and skew of culverts,
etc.
Material Inspection and Control
The Supervision Team shall carry out all test sampling in the field and
perform such tests as can be made in the Field Laboratory to maintain quality



-63-                   Annex 1
Page 5 of 6
control. Other inspection and testing of materials and finished articles to be
incorporated in the work may be made by the Supervision Team, subject to the
authorization and approval of the Engineer. The Supervision Team shall assure
that the Contractor is notified of any defects in his work and if necessary, stop
operations concerned with the defective work until the defects are corrected.
Measurement and Payment
The Supervision Team shall make field measurements of quantities of
materiabi incorporated in the project and maintain up-to-date books containing
computations or other information concerning the use of construction materials,
properly divided into sections of construction.
Periodic reports shall be prepared and transmitted to the SPTD showing
quantities inco-porated in the work at the end of each pay period, and also
showing monies earned by and due the contractors.
The Supervision Team shall maintain up-to-date records of remaining
quantities to be incorporated in the Works and the cost estimates relating
thereto broken down into foreign and local currency components.
Claims and Arbitration
The Supervision Team shall review claims which the contractor may present
for additional compensation andlor additional time allowances and recommend
appropriate action; perform change orders as necessary during the progress of
the work to cover possible changes within the general scop. of the construction
contracts. The Supervision Team will evaluate the contrac.orsI requirement for
payment and will certify the request or cause to have it changed so that it can
be certified.
The Supervision Team shall give decisions on all claims and accounts, all
questions, disputes, and differences which under the terms of the contract or
contracts are left for his settlement and decisions and shall aid and assist
the SPTD in dealing with all other claims and accounts, disputes and differences
relating to the works.
The Supervision Team shall assist and advise the SPTD with regard to any
matter or thing which may be the subject of arbitration, inquiry or litigation
and if and when required by the SPTD, Liember(s) of the Supervision Team shall
attend and give supporting evidence and otherwise assist the SPTD before any
court or in any arbitration or at any inquiry dealing with any matters arising
from or in connection with the execution of the works.
The supporting evidence should contain sufficient information to reveal
the nature of the contractor's complaint, circumstances pertaining thereto, and
the substance of any commitments made by either party in this regard. A thorough
coverage of the contractors' operations relative to the work in question should
be maintained in the Daily Project Diary. Coirments covering equipment and/or
materials which may be involved, progress maintained, should be included.



- 64 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 6
In the event of any arbitration or litigation if the foreign or local
consultants are called upon to assist before a Board of Arbitration proceedings
or before a court of Law, the consultants shall receive separate remuneration
for their assistance in the trial and finalization of the case.
V. RECORDS AND REPORTS
The Supervision Team shall maintain records of deviations or changes from
the contract plans, and provid.t one marked-up master set of drawings in such
manner that the original plans can be corrected by others to correspond with the
'As Built' conditions.
The  Supervision  Team  shall  provide  all  required  services  for
certifications of the project in accordance with the World Bank Loan/Credit
Agreements and subsequent letters of implementation. The Supervision Team shall:
(a)   prepare and/or assist SPTD in preparing periodic progress and
financial status reports, and prepare a final report on the project;
(b)   provide certification where required by SPTD for interim and final
payments;
(c)   provide SPTD with such technical and engineering consultation
required in its day-to-day activities pertaining to the project as
may be requested;
(d)   keep records of all work done in the engineering and construction phases
of the work and make an activity and progress report for each month of
operation;
(e)   prepare progress schedule reports prior to beginning the engineering work
for the engineering phase; and
(f)   keep records of all payments approved and report such i. the regular
monthly report. The regular monthly report will be made as of the end
of each calendar month and will contairn three sections:
(i)   description of activities (with photographs);
(ii)   progress chart; and
(iii)   expenditure record.
These three sections will be correlated with the estimated activity
and progress schedules. The report will be countersigned by the Engineer and
fifteen copies submitted to the SPTD.   Two copies will be forwarded to the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank).



ANNEX 2
- 65 -                     Page 1 of 6
CHINA
SHANDONG FROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT DEPARTMENT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
PREPARATION OF ROAD DATA BANK, PAVEMENT EVALUATION
AND STRENGTHENING PROGRAM, AND MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT STUDY
I. INTRODUCTION
1.       The total length of the highway network in Shandong Province is
37,530 km. of which about 34,155 or 91Z are all-weather roads with a
bituminous or gravel surface. Much of the paved road network is showing signs
of distress under the increasing traffic and need urgent strengthening.
Furthermore, in recent years the Shandong Provincial Transport
Department (SPTD) has faced increasing problems and costs in maintaining its
road network due to substandard and aging pavements and to the growing volumes
of heavy vehicle traffic.
2.       Therefore, to preserve the asset value represented by the existing
highway network and to provide for the efficient and safe movement of traffic,
SPTD proposes to evaluate the condition of the paved roads in order to prepare
a strengthening program and to review the organizational and operational
aspects of its paved road maintena.ice with a view to bringing them up to date.
As a first step, the SPTD proposes to carry out the road evaluation and
program preparation with a pilot study of 560 km of paved roads in Jining
Prefecture.
II. OBJECTIVES
3.       The pilot study aims at:  (a) establishing a provincial road data
base compatible with national guidelines, comprising an inventory of permanent
features and current conditions of the selected paved roads; (b) beginning
regular monitoring of the current condition of these roads; (c) identifying
pavement overlay and strengthening needs and resource requirements for the
roads; and (d) pilot implementation of a maintenance planning and management
system compatible with national guidelines, to enable a systematic approach to
maintenance programming.



- 66 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
iii. SCOPE OF STUDY
A. General
4.       The study team shall perform all field investigations, engineering
studies, cost estimates, economic and financial analyses, and systems design,
as required to obtain the objectives given in the preceding Section II.
B. Scope of Work
5.       The pilot project will consist of four parts of what will ultimately
be an integrated road management system for the provincial network. The parts
will be carried out concurrently:
Part I: Development and implementation of a basic road data bas-, compa-
tible with both the proposed national road data bank and provincial needs,
and comprising an inventory of permanent features, road conditions, and
traffic characteristics. The system should comprise basic items
initially, provide for regular updating, and permit future expansion.
Part II: Selection and implementation of a paved road management model to
serve as a tool for preparing maintenance programs. The model should
analyze the road data base; identify maintenance needs in accordance with
specified intervention criteria; rank the needs by economic return; permit
interactive refinement of the resultant work program to satisfy budget and
other considerations; and be consistent with national MOC recommendations.
Part III:  Review and implement a pavement evaluation method for obtaining
data needed for the preparation of detailed road improvement and
strengthening programs. The method should utilize physical measures of
pavement strength, condition, and traffic that are compatible both with
the new MOC deflection-based rehabilitation design method and also with
the national road data bank and the provincial road management system.
Part IV Make preliminary evaluations of a 5-year policy and program for
the 560 km of roads under study, the impact of current and future traffic
loading levels, the need for capacity improvements, and institutional
issues.
6. To this end, the study team shall:
(a) Prepare a current inventory of the selected 460 km of paved road
comprising:
(i) A road features inventory, including identification of road
class, route number, province, maintenance district, maintenance
section, and section length; construction history and construc-
tion details (types and widths of pavement and shoulder,
gradient, curvature, drainage, terrain); traffic history;
regional freezing index and average precipitation.



-67 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
(Li) A traffic inventory for the network, including traffic counts by
vehicle type at selected points on the network, and load data of
heavy vehicles (as the data become available from (b) below or
other sources).
(lii) A road condition survey, based on a simple rapid inspection
method (such as drive-over, or sampling) to assess the approxi-
mate levels of pavement roughness (see Attachment A), pavement
distress, shoulder condition, and drainage condition.
(b) Review and implement the method of pavement evaluation, based on the
research work of the HOC's Highway Scientific Research Institute, for
the identification and design of road improvement and strengthening
works; and conduct an evaluation of a designated sample of paved
roads including the following:
(i) Select and implement a physical method of measuring road rough-
ness in standard units of the international roughness index
(IRI), and conduct roughness measurements on the sample roads.
(11) Assess pavement strength and construction characteristics on the
sample roads through standard surface deflection and other tests
as required for the design and evaluation of rehabilitation.
(lii) Select and implement improved methods for traffic counting by
vehicle class and for sample weighing of heavy vehicle axles,
and conduct surveys at selected stations representing the sample
roads.
(iv) Consider modifying (11) above to be undertaken in two stages for
roads unlikely to be scheduled for treatment within the first
two-year period, namely an immediate preliminary assessment
derived from a small sample of measurements followed by a later
detailed assessment conducted shortly before the scheduled time
of treatment.
(c)  Establish a provincial road data base for  b storage of, and access
to, data collected under la), and (b) abov   snd provide guidelines
for the collection, capture, audit and rept  ting of all items, in
accordance with national reco mmendations.
(d)  Review national recommentations and implement, on a pilot scale, a
system for the management of road maintenance and improvement,
including regular monitoring of the network, updating of the data
base, and preparation of work programs. Evaluate the staffing and
costs of implementing the system and expanding the scope to the
staffing and cost of unpaved and local roads and bridges.
(e) Prepare an indicative medium-term policy and program for the 560 km
of seleted paved roads, based on an analysis 11 of data collected
under items (a) and (b) above, and recommend:
1/ Preferably, an available road policy evaluation model such as HDM III
or RTIM2 should be used for the analysis.



ANNEX 2
- 68 -                     Page 4 of 6
(i)  a strategy for allocating budget resources to new construction
improvement and maintenance works;
(ii) appropriate intervention criteria for identifying improvement
and maintenance works;
(iii) a five-year program for improvement and strengthening works;
(iv) estimated expenditures for the five-year period; and
(v) the estimated impact of the program on the selected roads in
terms of physical condition and economic benefits.
(f) provide advice to SPTD on the implications from:
(i) an evaluation of the axle load survey results, the impact of
deterioration on the selected roads and possible control
measures for vehicle loading;
(ii) an evaluation of the present maintenance organization, recom-
mending organizational changes or improvements.
7.       Throughout the program outlined above the study team shall prepare
lists of specialized equipment, including computer hardware and software
required for the work togetber with specifications and bid documents. The
team also shall assist the SPTD in evaluating bids or quotations and awarding
contracts.
C.  Follow-up to the Study
8.       When the pilot study has been completed the SPTD will continually
update the detailed road inventory and expand its scope to include the entire
provincial road network using personnel trained during the study.
9.       Since the detailed condition inventory will form a substantial part
of the activity to prepare engineering designs for pavement improvement workf,
the SPTD must proceed with the inventory of the network at such a rate that
the established improvement may be implemented without interruption due to a
lack of designs.
10.      The SPTD may require additional services from foreign experts during
the follow-up phase of the study in order to implement the new system and/or
to expedite the detailed pavement condition inventory over the whole road
network of the province.
IV.  STAFF REQUIRED AND REPORTS TO BE SUBMITTED
A. Staff
11.      The study will be completed in about 15 months with a total of about
60 man-months, including about 16 man-months of foreign expertise to train
local engineers in the field of pavement evaluation and management systems,



- 69 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 6
data base management, and engineering and data processing. Additional man-
months of foreign technicians or engineers might be considered for using auto-
mated equipment for road condition assessment, adapting foreign computer
programs to computers available in China, and training Chinese counterpart
staff.
B. Reports
12.      The Study Team will be required to submit the following reports in
the Chinese (Mandarin) and English languages:
(a) inception report after 2 months of start-up;
(b) progress report monthly;
(c)  interim report after 6 months;
(d)  draft final report after 10 months; and
(e) final report after 12 months.
V. FACILITIES AND SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED BY THE GOVERNMENT
13.      SPTD will assign a certain number of its personnel to work on the
Study Team on a full-time basis. Details regarding the number,
qualifications, etc. of persons for such assignments will be determined on the
basis of the scope of work described in Section III.
14.      SPTD and the foreign experts will work out and agree on a list of the
facilities needed, and the specialized equipment needed will be provided by
the foreign experts under their contract with the SPTD on the basis of such a
list presented on the consultants' proposal.



Annex 2
-70 -                        Page 6 of 6
Attachment A
FUNCTIONAL DESCRIPTIONS OF MONITORING EQUIPMENT
A.   Road Roughness Meter
Functional Purpose. The meter makes standardization measurements of
road surface roughness while travelling at highway speeds. Roughness causes
wear in a moving vehicle thus raising the operating costs, and influences
riding comfort, vehicle speed, and safety. Large economic benefits are
derived from the reduction of roughness. Standardization is achieved by
calibrating the instrumented vehicle to the International Roughness Index
(IRI) over selected road sections; the IRI is determined from the longitudinal
surface-profile of the sections using a profiling method.
Brief Specifications
(a) roughness sensor with automatic readout
and recording, supplied complete in
independent trailer);
(b) road profile measuring device, for calibra-
tion of roughness meter or surface level
tolerance measurement (or: TRRL beam
profilometer).



- 71 -                     Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
ROAD SAFETY PROGRAM
Background
1.       A China Road Safety Project, financed by the World Bank Group under
Loan 2811-CHA/Credit 1792-CHA was undertaken during 1987 for the Ministry of
Communications through its Highway Scientific Research Institute (HSRI). The
primary purpose of the project was to make recommendations for the development
of an improved accident data collection, storage and analysis system in a
pilot area of China with a view to the eventual extension of the system in the
interest of improving road safety throughout China. Sichuan was selected as
the pilot province.
2.       The objective of the Shandong Road Safety Program is to apply the
experience of the Sichuan Pilot Study in collecting and analyzing traffic
accident data which will help to identify high accident locations (black
spots) and implement safety measures in the interest of reducing traffic
accidents.
Road Safety Program
3.       The Road Safety Program includes the following components:
(a)   establishment of a permanent Road Safety Unit (RSU) comprising five
members within the Shandong Provincial Communications Department;
(b)   review of the methodology and experience of the Sichuan Pilot Study
(SPS);
(c)   introduction of a revised Accident Data Collection Form (ADCF);
(d)   installation of two computerized Accident Data Storage and Analysis
Systems (ADSS) based on TRRL software;
(e)   training of personnel including Police Accident Units in the use of
ADSS;
(f)   design of an Accident Location System (ALS);
(g)   collection and classification of the accident data on the Xindiang-
Dongying road (76 km) and, subject to agreement to be reached between
SPTD and the Road Safety Administration Unit of the Province, on the
Weifang-Wulian (124 km) road section;
(h)   identification of "hazardous locations" (blackspots);



-72 -                     Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
(1) preparation of alternative proposals for road safety improvements at
black spots:
(j) physical improvement of black spots; and
(k) preparation of a proposal to the Provincial Government for the
further expansion of the Road Safety Program.
4.      The progress of the program vill be monitored through the quarterly
progress reports for the project.
1989   1990   1991    1992    1993    1994
(a) Setting up RSV                      I   I--Il       I       I       I       I       I
(b) Review SP$                          i    I---       I       I       I       I       |
(c) Introduce revised ADCF              I---1   1               1       1       1       1
(d) Install ADSS (TRRL)                 I       |   I---I       I       I       |       I
(e) Trainlng to use fDSS                |       I       I---I   I       |       I       I
(f) Design ALS                          I       I       |   I---I       |       i       I
(g) Collect Accident Data               I       I       I       I--    I        I       I
(h) Identify black spots                        I       I       I       I       I       !
(i) Prepare Isprovement Proposals                               I       I       I       I
(j) Physical Improvements                                                     - - - I---
(k) Proposal for the Extension of RSP                                           |-------
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _   _ _   _ I   _ _ I    _ _ I    _ _ I    _ _ I  .1_      1 _  



- 73 -                      ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Implementation
Start    Complete
Part A - Highway Construction
- Prequalification of contractors including
Bank review                                                      04/15/89
- Bid period                                             05/01/89   06/30/89
- Receive and open bids, receipt and evaluation
by Bank of copy of Evaluation Report and
Government recommendations                           07/01/89   08/31/89
- Select consultants for organization of
supervision of works                                 05/01/89   08/01/89
- Appoint supervision staff                                          08/01/89
- Award construction contracts                           09/01/89   09/30189
- Construction of highway                                11/01/89   06130/94
Part B - Provision of Equipment for Pavement
Evaluation and Central Road Laboratory
-Prepare, with consultant assistance, specifi-
cations and bid documents for Bank review              -           06/30/89
- Invite bids                                            -           08/15/89
- Evaluate bids                                          11101189   11/30/89
- Review by Bank of evaluation report and
recommendations for award                            12/01/89   12/15189
- Award contracts                                        -           01/15/90
- Delivery of equipment                                  -           04/15/90
Part C - Provision of Eauipment for Road Maintenance
- Prepare, with consultant assistance, equipment
lists, specifications &nd bid documents for
Bank review                                          -           09/30/91
- Invite bids                                            -           11/01/91
- Evaluate bids                                          02/01/92   02/30192
- Review by Bank of evaluation report and
recommendations for award                            03/01/92   03/30192
- Award contracts                                        -           04/30/92
- Delivery of equipment                                  _           10131192



- 74-                       ANEX4
Page 2 of 2
Implementation
Start    Complete
Part D - Provision of ELuipment for Traffic
Monitoring and Communications
- Prepare, with consultant assistance, equipment
lists, specifications and bid documents for
Bank review                                           -          05/31192
- Invite bids                                             -           06/30/92
- Evaluate bids                                           09/30/91   10/31/92
- Review by Bank of evaluation report and
recommendations for award                             11/01/91   11/30/92
- Award contracts                                         -           12/31/92
- Delivery of equipment                                   -           05/31/93
Part E - Road Data Bank
- Preparation of specifications and bid
documents for computer systems                        12/31/90   03/01/91
- Invite bids                                             -          03/15/91
- Evaluate bids                                           06/01/91   07/15/91
- Review by Bank                                          07/15/91   08/15/91
- Award contracts                                         -          08/31/91
- Testing and delivery                                    -          10/31/91
- Collection and processing of data                       09/01/90   12/31/94
Part F - Consulting Services/Technical Assistance
- Assistance in supervision and training for
construction supervision                             08/01/89   06/30/94
- Assistance in pavement evaluation and preparation
of pavement strengthening and maintenance manage-
ment programs                                         04/01/89   06/30/90
- Assistance in setting up and operating a road
data bank including equipment procurement (HPDI)    09/01/90   12/31/93
- Assistance in the development of
Road Safety Program (HSRI)                            06/01/89   12/31/94
Part G - Staff Training
- Selection of trainees                                   06/01/89   10/31/89
- Placement of trainees                                   11/01/89   12/31/92



-75-                                  AKNNZX 5
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
SHAUDONG PROVONCIAL HIGHVAY PROJECT
Proiect Monitoring Indices
Actual as   Reason for Action
Lsti-                S of      difference  to be
Project component                                  mated    Actual   estimated    (if any)   taken
Hiuhwa, Construction
Contract awards
Esrthworks completed (m3)
Paving completed (km)
Culverts (number)
Bridges (number)
Construction work copleted
Maintenance certificate issued
Completion certificates issued
Final cost
Supervision of Construction (man-months)
Consultant Services
Supervision of Construction
Consultants selected
Consultants start work
Organization, procedures and systems
for supervision agreed by SPTD and Bank
Supervision staff appointed
Office and laboratory buildings
constructed
Laboratory equipment in place
Supervision of construction in progress
4. 



-76 -
Page 2 of 2
Actual as   Reason for Action
Esti-                S of      difference  to be
Project component                                  mated    Actual   estimated    (if any)   taken
Road Data Bank
Identify bardvare
Preparation of specification and
bid document for computer system
Invite blds
Evaluate bids
Award contracts
Test hardware and software
Delivery
Collection and processing of data
Pavement Zvaluation
Consultants selected
Consultants start work
Identify equipment
Prepare specifications and
bid documents
Invite bids
Evaluate bids
Award contracts
Equipment delivery
Road Maintenance and
Traffic Monitoring Equipment
identify equipment
Prepare specifications and
bid documents
Invite bids
Evaluate bids
Award contracts
Equipment delivery



- 77 -                         ANNEX 6
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Prolect File
A. General Reports
A.1  CHINA: Long-Term Development Issues and Options, World Bank,
September 1985
A.2  Statistical Yearbook of China, 1985, State Statistical Bureau, PRC
A.3  Statistical Yearbook of Shandong Province, 1986
B. General Reports and Studle? on the Sector or Subsector
B.1 CHINA: Long-Term Development Issues and Options, Annex 6r The
Transport Sector, World Bank, September 1985
B.2 Transport Sector Paper, December 10, 1984, AEPTR
B.3 Basic Data on the Chinese Highway Subsector - Answers to Questions
(Chinese with English translation)
C. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
C.1 Jinan-Qingdao Highway Project. Feasibility Study Report, Highway
Planning and Design Institute of the Shandong Provincial Transport
Department, October 1985
C.2 Jinan-Qingdao Highway Project. Appraisal Report, Shandong Povincial
Highway Planning and Design Institute, May 1988.



Chart 1
CHINA
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
The RelatonshIp Between Central & Provindal Trnport Departmnt
Burem     Stall8ft                 .4Minisby of
C~~~fiPons d
I
I       ~~~~~~~~~~I
Transpoi     _ 
Hbh _ __ _   _ 
..   .        .     ,       ~~~I   ,                  I.                   I
i  f|iPr&    j  -  I-
County Trsort___
I~~ ~~~~~~ I                epaIun.nw1
-~~~~~ -
ua:^nietn_d*sonrpaDwa        ~      maftnw
b~ Theo Id gmshow l the dbef =Mdl ovw *ml fdeddo adk9 xtm poky ad &M dl_ 
kWA1G



lit
fiI M                                   I  
pat                 IJ_l}I      S 
0               I ___ 



CHINA
SHANDONG PROVWdJCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Orgnization o the JInOn.rQoIgo H4ghway Heodqxuart
HWfl9
Dad
offce of
r~~=                                                     Xt ID, rCIa
sncion     HuHm Do  I              w
AdMrat    A*W*faI   Adr*a         Adr&k
EN wu       Wem reou Ieu           Wo
(Conthact i & 2)  (Conact 3)  (Contact 4)  (Crct 5A & 7) (Contrat 8)
WodW Ba*-4269.1              1



II6-                                                                                       Ila-                          120-                          12'1'                          1212-
HEBEI
-38-
Bo H0
H'   I m   I -fi
o
I's;                                                                                                              -1 10
01.-v                             off
"S.                                                           '7--.                              Ih
w-
6g
X-
E Z    0, V                                                                                                                     Y    N                                                                        3r.
f                                                                                        "c-
-   I N. R-d
'JINA                                                                                                                                                           Huang Hai
G.-                                                           A  11        R-d
H
V,                                                                                                                                          CHINA
L          H E N                                 5 H
SHANDONG PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY
PROJECT
Transport Network
-36-                                                            A          N                                                                                                                                                PROPOSED PROJEM
A... - Oigd- High..y
P-M &.kfl- -d St-9th.1,,q P-g-
I                                                                                                           P-t" Bmk =         (L-  2539 CMA/
0"t 159A
N.A W SA R-Ils
HENAN                                                                                              t                                                                                                               N"-l P..d.
ow.                                                                                                                                                 Se-dry R-d,
R.11-4
Mrp.,h
t'l       y                                                                                                     %,b
C-t C-l
N
Sh-gli Oil Ftld
C-oy B-dd.                           35
PAft. B..d.d.
A                                                                                00                                                                                                                                    P-d-  11-dl-
hft.aftmd flo.W.fts
0
0
OZHUANG
SHI
lw
KILOMETiEFIS
JIANGSU
M.                                                            A                                                                                                                                   12
MAROi 1989



