Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2025 CHA
(Shandong Provincial Highway Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 8, 1989
CREDIT NUMBER 2025 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 8, 1989, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to sixty million dollars ($60,000,000) (the 
Loan);
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
Page  2
expenditures on the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement 
are made;
(D)
the Project will be carried out by Shandong Province (Shandong) with the 
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to Shandong the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement and the 
proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, the Bank and Shandong;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Shandong" means Shandong Province, a political sub-division of the 
Borrower, and any successor thereto;
(b)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement;
(c)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Association, the Bank 
and Shandong of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(d)
"MOC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Communications and any successor 
thereto;
(e)
"SPTD" means Shandong Provincial Transport Department and any successor 
thereto; and
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-eight million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 38,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
Page  3
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1
commencing October 1, 1999, and ending April 1, 2024. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on April 1, 2009 shall be one and one-fourth percent 
(1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and 
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu
of some or all of the increase in the amount of such installments, the payment of 
interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
Page  4
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause Shandong to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement all the obligations of Shandong therein set forth, shall take 
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Shandong to perform 
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit and the proceeds of 
the Loan available to Shandong under arrangements satisfactory to the Association and 
the Bank.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of
the Credit and of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and 
land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Shandong pursuant to Section 
2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound  
accounting  
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that  all  records  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one 
year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
Page  5
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Shandong shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Shandong will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council has approved the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have 
been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by Shandong, and is legally binding upon Shandong in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Page  6
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit 
and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
                      Amount of     Amount of
                     the Credit     the Loan
                      Allocated     Allocated         % of
                     (Expressed    (Expressed       Expendi-
                       in SDR       in Dollar       tures to
Page  7
Category             Equivalent)   Equivalent)     be Financed
(1)  Civil            35,600,000    28,800,000     30%
     works
(2)  Goods             2,400,000     7,500,000     100% of foreign
                                                   expenditures,
                                                   100% of local
                                                   expenditures
                                                   (ex-factory
                                                   cost) and 75%
                                                   of local ex-
                                                   penditures for
                                                   other items
                                                   procured
                                                   locally
(3)  Consultants'        800,000     1,200,000     100% of foreign
     services and                                  expenditures
     training
(4)  Unallocated          -0-      22,500,000
                      __________    __________
          TOTAL       38,800,000    60,000,000
                      __________    __________
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
3,500,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after July 8, 1988.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in meeting the increasing 
transport demand in the Jinan-Qingdao corridor, and improving management of the road 
network by introducing modern planning and management techniques, including training.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
(A)
Construction of about 319 km, four-lane divided, controlled-access 
highway, connecting Jinan, the capital of Shandong, with Qingdao, one of the major 
ports of China.
(B)
Consulting services to assist SPTD in construction supervision and to 
help train SPTD staff in supervising and maintaining quality control over highway 
construction.
(C)
Provision of specialized equipment and expertise for a pilot project to 
evaluate about 560 km of existing road pavements and prepare paved road strengthening 
and maintenance management programs.
(D)
Technical assistance from MOC and provision of equipment to set up a 
Page  8
computerized road data bank in order to improve road planning.
(E)
Provision of road maintenance, traffic monitoring and communication 
equipment.
(F)
Provision of research equipment for the central road laboratory.
 
(G)
Training of SPTD in various areas of highway engineering and management, 
including transport planning, soils and materials engineering, contract management, 
financial management and
accounting.
(H)
Carrying out a road safety program in Shandong with the assistance of 
MOC.
* * * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
Bidders for civil works to be procured in accordance with the procedures 
described in this Part A shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the 
Guidelines.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.
Civil works under Part A of the Project may be carried out through force account 
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  9
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to 
be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist in carrying out the Project, the Borrower and Shandong shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the 
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the 
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
US$7,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited 
in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
Page  10
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to 
replenish the Special Account with amounts not
exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account or from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as  shall have been justified by the evidence 
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such documents and other 
evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was 
made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations
first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of the Development 
Credit Agreement, or from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and 
Article V of 
the General Conditions applicable thereto; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and of the Loan 
allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the amount of any 
outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Association or the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
respective General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall be equal to 
the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, 
refund to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
Page  11
or the Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account or to *the 
Loan Account, as the case may be.
