Documentof             FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Iepwt No. P-3260-So
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
SECOND MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
April 6, 1982
This doumet has a rerited distibutio and may be sed by recipients only In the perfdumm  of
their official duties. Its enteuts may o  otherwise be disclsed withot World Bank autherzatim.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                            Somali Shilling (So Sh)
1 Somali Shilling           =            US$0.07943
US$1                                     So Sh 12.59
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Imperial gallon (Ig)           =        1.2 US gallon (gal) = 4.55 liters (1)
1 cubic meter (cu m)             =        220 Ig, 264.2 US gal, or 1 kiloliter (K1)
1 Megaliter (MI)                 =        1000 cu m
1 liter per capita per day       =        lcd
1 meter                          =        3.28 feet = 39.37 inches
1 millimeter (mm)                =        0.039 inches
1 kilometer (km)       2         =        0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )         =        0.386 sq mi 247 acres (ac) = 100 hectares (ha)
ABBREVIATIONS
Arab Fund   =   Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
EDF             European Development Fund
FAO         =   Food and Agriculture Organization
GIBB             Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners (Africa)
GTZ         =   German Agency for Technical Cooperation
MMWR        =   Ministry of Mineral & Water Resources
MWA         =   Mogadishu Water Agency
NWC             National Water Committee
SDR             Special Drawing Rights
USAID       =   United States Agency for International Development
UK          =   United Kingdom of Great Britain
WDA         =   Water Development Agency
WHO         =   World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOMALIA
SECOND MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           Somali Democratic Republic
Beneficiary:        Mogadishu Water Agency (MWA)
Amount:             SDR 13.4 million (US$15.0 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Relending Terms:    The credit proceeds would be onlent to the Mogadishu
Water Agency for a period of 20 years, including
3 years of grace, at an interest rate of 10 percent
per annum.
Project Objectives  The Project objectives are to increase MWA's water production
and Description:   capacity and management capability, to extend Mogadishu's
existing water distribution system, to investigate water
resources for meeting Mogadishu's future water supply
needs, and to assess the feasibility of introducing low-
cost sanitation facilities in Mogadishu. To accomplish
these objectives, the Project includes the following
parts: (i) civil works including: extension of source of
supply works at the Afgoi Road wellfield; distribution
system reservoirs; distribution mains and public taps and
test drilling in support of water resource investigations
for a future project; (ii) mechanical and electrical
equipment including pumping plant for wells and boosters,
power supply lines and miscellaneous equipment and
supplies; (iii) technical assistance and consulting
services.
Benefits and        The Project would provide Mogadishu with reliable supplies
Risks:            of safe water, eliminate present water shortages, satisfy
the city's future growth in water demand until 1987, and
provide about 640,000 persons in 1987 with improved access
to the water system. The urban poor would be the main
beneficiaries of the project. The major project risks lie
in MWA's institutional weakness which could have an
adverse effect on project implementation and subsequently
on the maintenance and operation of the project facilities.
To minimize these risks, the Project provides for the
employment of advisors to support MWA management during
project implementation. The ongoing efforts under the
first project would help to improve MWA's effectiveness
through a comprehensive training program and the establish-
ment of commercial accounting.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated
Project Cost:
US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total   % of Total
Civil Works                          3.8      16.5     20.3        49
Plant, Equipment and Supplies        0.5       3.8      4.3        10
Advisory Staff                       0.2       0.8       1.0        2
Consulting Services                  0.1       3.0      3.1         7
Base Costs                           4.6      24.1     28.7        68
Contingencies:
Physical                           1.0       5.1      6.1        14
Price                              3.3       4.2      7.5        18
Total Project Costs 1/               8.9      33.4     42.3       100
Financing Plan:                                    US$ Million
Local    Foreign    Total
IDA                                   1.5       13.5        15.0
Arab Fund                             3.1       14.4        17.5
EDF                                    -         5.5         5.5
MWA                                   3.3         -          3.3
Government                            1.0         -          1.0
Total                                 8.9       33.4        42.3
Estimated
Disbursements:                                         US$ Million
IDA FY          83      84       85      86
Annual                   3.3      5.1      4.95    1.65
Cumulative               3.3      8.4    13.35    15.0
Rate of Return:    About 5.6 percent. 2/
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 3252-SO, dated March 26, 1982.
Map:                IBRD 15172
1/   Total Project costs are net of taxes and duties from which the Project
would be exempted.
2/   The incremental financial rate of return, which is relatively low,
underestimates the real economic return, because health and amenity
benefits for a project such as this are impossible to quantify.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC FOR A
SECOND MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Somali Democratic Republic for SDR 13.4 million (US$15.0
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Second Mogadishu
Water Supply project. The proceeds of the credit would be onlent to the
Mogadishu Water Agency for a period of 20 years, including 3 years of grace,
at an interest rate of 10 percent per annum. Additional financing will
be obtained from the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (about
US$17.5 million equivalent) and the European Development Fund (about US$5.5
million equivalent) on concessionary terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Memorandum on the Economy of Somalia (Report No. 3284-SO) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in March 1981. The report of a mission
which carried out an Agricultural Sector Review was distributed to the Executive
Directors in June 1981. Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
3.        The Somali Democratic Republic gained independence in 1960 and the
present Government came into power in 1969. Under a new constitution adopted
in 1979, elections for a People's Assembly were held in December 1979. The
Assembly appointed General Siad Barre as President in January 1980. The
country is still affected by hostilities in the border areas in the Ogaden and
by the disruptions caused by the phasing out of Soviet aid and technical
assistance in 1977. During 1980, intensified war activities in the Ogaden
caused a large influx of refugees (estimated at over one million) and led the
Government to declare a state of emergency in November 1980.
4.        Somalia is a large country with a 3,000 kilometer coastline; its
varied topography includes a hot and arid coastal plain, rugged mountains and
plateaus, and lowlands of varying fertility and rainfall. Only 13 percent of
the land is said to be arable, but with water the limiting constraint, only a
small fraction of this potentially-arable land is, in fact, cultivated. About
60 percent of the total population of approximately 4 million are nomads and
semi-nomads who depend on livestock for their livelihood; about 20 percent are
farmers cultivating land along the Juba and Shebelli rivers and in the higher-
rainfall Bay and "orth-west regions; the rest are engaged in non-agricultural
occupations. The existence of several minerals has been confirmed, but their
exploration is still in an early stage, and the commercial viability of
production remains to be proved. In the absence of other known resources,
Somalia's prospects depend upon agricultural and livestock development, where
progress will depend upon careful management of the scarce land and water
resources.



5.        Apart from the traditional export of livestock, commercial agriculture
is centered mainly on the production and export of bananas (in which foreign
concession holders are still important) and the production of sugar for the
domestic market. Expansion of the manufacturing and service sectors is limited
by the small size of the domestic market, poor infrastructure, and the shortage
of capital and entrepreneurial experience. Bank staff estimate that about 70
percent of the population live at the subsistence level (equivalent to about
US$200-250 per family of five). Social services are still very inadequate.
Per capita income, which was provisionally estimated at US$185 in 1978, has
probably remained stagnant in real terms over the past six years.
Development Strategy
6.        Since the revolution in 1969, the Government has adhered to a program
of "scientific socialism", emphasizing "egalitarianism" and social justice,
development through the public sector, nationalization of certain foreign
enterprises, and the formation of cooperatives. The Government has maintained
that there is scope for private initiative in Somalia, and some privately
financed projects have been implemented. But the main emphasis has been given
to development of the public sector. Public ownership and management have
expanded both through nationalization and through the creation of new public
enterprises. The parastatal sector now includes about 50 autonomous agencies
which have eliminated private enterprises in wholesale trade and banking and
which dominate manufacturing. The Five-Year Development Plan (1974-78) and the
Three-Year Plan (1979-81) were essentially public investment programs that
allowed for only a few small private ventures. Although the Plans have provided
needed impetus to investment, they have not played a major role in the alloca-
tive process. Despite the Government's initial intentions, industry, mining
and infrastructure have received more public investment than agriculture. At
the same time, public enterprises have operated without firm Government control
owing largely to weak management and inadequate monitoring.
7.        Somalia has made considerable progress in meeting some basic needs:
a program of literacy and primary education has had noticeable results, and an
effective system of food distribution has been established. In other respects,
however, the record in the social sectors has been less impressive, particularly
in water supply, sanitation, and health, where services have frequently been
biased in favor of the urban population. Moreover, economic growth has been
rather slow, making it difficult for Somalia to pursue vigorously its basic
needs policies.
8.        The major development goals of the Somali Government include self-
sufficiency in foodgrains, the partial substitution of other agricultural
imports (oils, sugar, cotton), and improvement of the lot of the traditional
nomadic herdsmen through settlement programs and improvements in livestock
poduction and marketing facilities. The current emphasis on irrigated agricul-
ture is meant to make the country less dependent on the erratic rainfall
and to assure more stable and predictable increases in output. However,
rainfed agriculture, which occupies the largest number of farm families, is
also being assisted. Improvements in livestock production and marketing are



- 3 -
being promoted together with projects aiming at the rehabilitation of the
rangelands. The Government's industrial development policy focuses on the
processing of domestic raw materials such as cotton, edible oils, milk, sugar,
to substitute for imports. Finally, the Government places emphasis on develop-
ing infrastructure, especially transportation and communication.
9.        Available indicators on production suggest that between 1972 and
1978, gross domestic product in real terms increased by about 2.5 percent a
year. In the face of a population growth rate of 2.3 percent, this led to
stagnation in per capita income. In the productive sectors, the growth was
only one percent a year on average, while in the services sectors it was 6.5
percent, reflecting to a large extent the increase in Government employment.
Within the productive sectors, the annual growth was 2.5 percent in livestock,
minus 5 percent in crop production, and minus 0.5 percent in industry. Since
1978, output in agriculture and industry has most likely continued to stagnate.
10.       The development of crop production has been particularly disappoint-
ing. While foodgrain production stagnated, there was a sharp decline in banana
production and a moderate decline in industrial crops. The causes of this
decline in production are manifold, viz: the lack of an effective production-
oriented development program; uncertainty among private banana growers; and
management and agronomic problems on government production schemes. Above all,
however, the lack of incentives was a major factor. For the most important
crops, producer prices have decreased in real terms; in 1980, they were esti-
mated to be lower than in 1974: by 43 percent for bananas, by 31 percent for
maize and sorghum, and by 48 percent for sesame seed and cotton. In the
industrial sector, where agro-industries predominate, growth has been hampered
by the generally declining trend in agricultural output as well as by the many
problems besetting public enterprises.
11.       The 1974-78 Five-Year Development Plan (FYDP) was revised several
times but remained overambitious with respect to both financial and implementa-
tion capacities. Total expenditures on projects during the FYDP amounted to
So. Sh. 4.3 billion (in current prices) as against the total planned investment
of So. Sh. 7.0 billion. The Three-Year Development Plan (TYDP), covering
1979-81, called for total public sector invesment expenditures of So. Sh.
7.1 billion (in 1978 prices), of which more than half represented outlays on
projects carried over from the 1974-78 development program. Of the total
anticipated expenditure, about 64 percent was expected to be financed from
foreign financing, the remainder from domestic savings and borrowing from
domestic sources. The TYDP also faced difficulties in implementation similar
to the FYDP owing to Somalia's low absorptive capacity and severe domestic
resource constraints. In 1979, the first year of the TYDP, actual expenditure
on projects was So. Sh. 1.4 billion, only some 47 percent of the planned
expenditure. The Government is currently preparing the 1982-86 Development
Plan.
Past Performance and Main Issues
12.       About 100,000 Somalis have migrated to work in neighboring oil-export-
ing states. Total earnings of the migrants are equivalent to about ten times



- 4 -
the total domestic value added in Somalia's modern sector. Labor migration has
been neither organized nor controlled by the Government, and it has seriously
depleted Somalia's already-low stock of qualified and skilled manpower, thereby
weakening institutions and reducing the country's absorptive capacity.
13.       Until 1977, budgetary policies remained satisfactory.  Government
expenditures were generally conservative, while efforts were made to mobilize
resources through taxation. Although drought and border problems adversely
affected the Government's budget during 1974-1977, inflows from sizeable
external grants considerably eased the financial impact of the drought and the
war. However, the border conflict of 1977/78 further accelerated the process
of fiscal deterioration that was already evident. In fact, the expansion of
government services nationwide, the rapidly rising defense expenditures and the
rising recurrent costs associated with recent public investments made it
increasingly difficult to generate savings. During 1978-80, the Government's
financial situation deteriorated rapidly, mainly because of the sizeable
expansion in expenditure consequent upon the border conflict, the cost of
maintaining large numbers of refugees, and the wage bill associated with the
Government's policy of guaranteeing employment for all school leavers. At the
same time, official foreign aid declined. As a result, the budgetary situation
worsened and the Government--which until 1978 had maintained a net creditor
position with the Central Bank--resorted to heavy borrowing from the banking
system. Deficit financing grew from So. Sh. 409 million in 1978 to So. Sh. 920
million in 1979 and was estimated at So. Sh. 671 million in 1980. This, in
turn, led to a sharp increase in the rate of inflation, from 10 percent in
1978 to 24 percent in 1979 and to an estimated 60 percent in 1980.
14.       The side-by-side existence of an official foreign exchange market and
a free market, funded largely by migrant workers' earnings, has given rise to
large unrecorded trade and monetary flows. A meaningful analysis of balance of
payments developments, on the basis of officially published figures, is
therefore not possible. Data for external reserves suggest that Somalia had a
comfortable overall balance of payments position up to the beginning of 1979.
Since then, a sharp deterioration has set in. Available data indicate that
since 1972, export developments have been most unfavorable. Although livestock
production has recovered from the drought in 1974/75, recorded exports of live
animals have not yet recovered to pre-drought levels. The volume of other
exports declined, owing mainly to the drop in banana production and the
cessation of exports of canned meat to the Soviet Union. Exports have also
become very vulnerable; over 70 percent of the total merchandise exports
comprise live animals, and 90 percent of these are to one country, Saudi
Arabia. Import statistics do not take into account all the goods imported
under the franco valuta system. Nonetheless, recorded imports rose sharply
from US$206 million in 1977 to US$394 million in 1979 but dropped to US$334
million in 1980. Although Somalia enjoyed considerable improvement in its
terms of trade, owing to higher and rising prices paid by Arab countries for
live animals, the current account deficit rose steeply, from US$22 million in
1977 to US$206 million in 1979. However, in 1980, the current account deficit
declined US$74 million, mainly due to a 15 percent decline in imports and a
large increase in official grants for the refugees.



- 5 -
15.       Until 1978, the overall balance of payments position remained
comfortable because of a sharp rise in official capital inflows. Disbursements
from foreign loans and grants rose from US$57 million in 1972 to almost US$200
million in 1977, but declined in 1978 and 1979. A substantial part of the
inflows was related to two events: the drought in 1974/75 and the war in
1977/78. The decline in official capital inflows, stagnant exports, and the
rapid rise in imports since 1978 resulted in the worsening of the balance of
payments position. Total foreign reserves, which had increased steadily from
US$31 million in 1972 to US$158 million at the end of the first quarter of 1979,
started to drop rapidly. By the end of December 1980, foreign reserves had
fallen to about US$15 million (about two weeks' imports) and have remained at
about US$30 million since then.
16.       The sluggish growth of export earnings and the low level of domestic
savings have rendered Somalia increasingly dependent upon external assistance
for the financing of development. After joining the Arab League in 1974,
Somalia mounted a major effort to attract funds from the Arab petroleum
exporting countries. The large inflows of external capital and transfers from
1975 onwards indicate that the effort has been successful. After 1977, the
sources of foreign assistance shifted from the socialist countries (except for
the People's Republic of China which maintains a large program) towards Arab
bilateral and multilateral institutions and Western countries, several of which
have had substantial assistance programs for a number of years.
17.       Somalia's public external debt (outstanding and disbursed) as of
December 1980 was US$693 million, equivalent to five times the level of recorded
exports. Although a large share of the external debt is on fairly soft terms
and the debt service ratio up to 1979 remained well below 10 percent, the debt
service burden is expected to become much heavier in the near future. This is
because in recent years the Government has made commitments for loans with
short maturity; it has also accumulated debt service payments arrears (estimated
by the IMF at US$45 million at the end of 1980). The debt service ratio is
projected to increase from about 18 percent in 1980 (after including arrears
payments) to about 30 percent by 1983.
18.       In sum, Somalia is currently in the midst of a deep economic and
financial crisis characterized by: stagnation in production and exports; a
rapidly rising budget deficit which is being met through recourse to deficit
financing; steeply rising inflation; a sharply worsening balance of payments
situation; a critical loss of foreign reserves; and a worsening external debt
situation. This crisis reflects not only adverse developments in the inter-
national economy, but also past and current weaknesses in economic management.
Unless policy measures are taken immediately both to restore short-term finan-
cial equilibrium and to stimulate growth, the economy may continue to stagnate
at a low level of economic activity.
Policy Changes
19.       The Government has recently shown some awareness that corrective
policy measures are needed to face the economic and financial deterioration.
In January 1980, the Government entered into its first stabilization program



- 6 -
with the IMF. This program aimed at restraining both public and private
domestic demand, raising domestic output of food crops, and expanding exports
through changes in product and factor prices. However, the program lapsed
because Somalia was unable to conform to the agreed credit ceilings. A new
policy framework suggested by the Bank in March 1981 (cf. the Memorandum on the
Economy of Somalia, Report No. 3284-SO) for restoring the financial equilibrium
and inducing growth in the economy was well received by the Government. Since
then, the Government has taken a series of economic measures. In April 1981,
the Government announced the introduction of higher producer prices for several
agricultural crops. Later, on July 1, 1981, the Covernment entered into a one
year stand-by program (July 1981-June 1982) with the IMF under which the Fund
will provide SDR 43.13 million (about $50 million).
20.       The stand-by agreement resulted in further economic measures aimed at
restoring the short-term financial equilibrium. These included: introduction
of a dual exchange rate, effective July 1, 1981 which effectively means a
substantial devaluation of the Somali shilling; a two-fold increase in the
producer price for bananas (an important export crop); an improvement in the
fiscal situation through a new tax on livestock exports, cutbacks in Government
expenditures, and improvements in tax collection; increase in interest rates;
production of incentives to Somali workers abroad to encourage them to remit
their savings through official channels; gradual elimination of payments
arrears on external debt; and restrictions on new commitments on public and
publicly-guaranteed external debt. The implementation of the program was
reviewed by a Fund mission in December 1981. The mission concluded that in the
first six months (July-December 1981) the implementation of the program was
satisfactory.
21.       The measures recently taken by the Government follow the general line
of advice by the Bank. The adjustment of the exchange rate is expected to
improve the balance of payments position through increased exports and hopefully
through mobilization of Somali emigrants savings through the official channels,
while higher producer prices will give incentive for increased production of
bananas and other domestically consumed agricultural crops. The fiscal
restraints imposed under the stand-by program should help in containing demand
expansion and thereby reducing inflation.
22.       Somalia-s export prospects are not very promising because of the
concentration on two primary products -- livestock and bananas -- both of which
face problems in expanding production. Livestock is subject to cyclical
droughts which decrease export supplies. Banana exports have fallen because of
supply (drought, floods, poor agricultural practices) and demand (increasing
competition from multinationals in both Italy and the Middle East) constraints.
Diversification efforts have been attempted with hides, skins, and fisheries,
but without much success so far. In view of the country's poverty and uncertain
export prospects, and because of the fiscal constraints, occasional financing
of local costs should be provided.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
23.       Since 1965, IDA has made 22 credits totaling US$157.3 million,
of which about 31% have been made for transportation development, including
construction of three trunk roads and a new deepwater port and associated
extensions at Mogadishu. IDA credits were also made for livestock development
in FY74, for a development finance company project in FY77, and for education
in FY71, FY75, FY78 and FY81. Lending for crop agriculture commenced in FY76
with two credits for a Drought Rehabilitation Project and a North-West Region
Agricultural Development Project. Additional credits for Central Rangelands
and Agricultural Extension and Training and Bay Region Development projects
were approved in FY79 and FY80. Agricultural and livestock credits approved
represent 37% of total lending. A credit for development of water supply in
Mogadishu and a technical assistance credit for project preparation were
approved in FY78. A credit for promotion of petroleum exploration was approved
in FY80. IFC recently made its first loan to Somalia. No Bank loan has been
made to Somalia. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits as of
September 30, 1981 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
24.       Performance on ongoing projects has been somewhat weak due mainly
to shortage of qualified personnel. As the pace of development continues
to rise, absorptive capacity constraints are becoming increasingly evident,
especially in the field of agriculture where projects are rather complex and
implementation experience is limited. Therefore, in preparing and appraising
new projects, close attention is being paid to implementation capacity and the
adoption of measures to ease this constraint when necessary. Partially to
address this problem, the Government has established a Project Implementation
Unit in the Ministry of National Planning which has considerably strengthened
the capacity for project implementation by providing monitoring and logistical
support to the projects, including assistance in procurement and recruitment
of consultants. Difficulties encountered in project implementation are
reflected in Somalia's disbursement performance. The disbursement rate, i.e.
actual disbursements during the year as a percentage of the undisbursed
balance at the beginning of the year, has declined over recent years from 35.9
percent in FY1977 to 16.3 percent in FY1980, but has slightly improved in
FY1981. The FY1981 disbursement rate was 20.7 percent, as compared with a
rate of 18.1 percent for Eastern Africa and 21.5 percent Bank-wide. This
negative trend in disbursement performance has been brought to the attention
of Government authorities, and efforts are being intensified to help improve it.
25.       Somalia-s statistical service lacks the capacity to fulfill the
data needs of development programs. The Bank's operations have experienced
difficulties in obtaining statistical data. We have therefore included funds
for strengthening the Central Statistical Department in the Ministry of
National Planning under the Agricultural Extension and Farm Management Training
Project (Credit 905-SO).
26.       We plan to concentrate our future efforts on the country s directly
productive sectors, agriculture, livestock and fisheries, and also on educa-
tion, transportation, water supply and sanitation. While agriculture and
livestock offer potential for development, most rural development activities
are only in the early stages. Moreover, agricultural development in Somalia
is particularly difficult because most of the people in rural areas are



- 8 -
nomadic. To increase our knowledge of agriculture iLn Somalia, the Bank has
recently made a comprehensive review of the sector (para. 2). In addition to
these sectors, we plan to support the Government's iLndustrial development
efforts (and assist in the formulation of an industrial development policy)
through our country economic and sector work and future industrial development
finance projects. We also plan to continue assistance to the energy sector.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
Water Resources
27.       Water resources in Somalia are unevenly distributed and scanty.
There are only two perennial rivers, the Juba and the Shebelli, which
originate outside Somalia and traverse the southern part of the country.
Although generally limited both as to quantity and quality, groundwater is
Somalia-s principal source of water supply.
Population Served
28.       Approximately 20 percent of the rural population and 58 percent of
the urban population had reasonable access to safe water in 1976. More recent
information indicates that this percentage has declined. The rapid expansion
of Mogadishu since 1973 (from an estimated 350,000 to about 580,000 persons
in 1980), means that less than 50 percent of the presently developed area has
reasonable access to the water distribution grid, and most of the population
depend upon water delivery by vendors or must transport water from public taps
by other means. There are no public sewers in Somalia and sanitation facilities
consist of individual disposal systems serving an estimated 35 percent of the
rural, and about 77 percent of the urban population.
Public Health
29.       Despite inadequate statistics relating to water related diseases,
morbidity and mortality due to common enteric and parasitic diseases are
known to be exceptionally high throughout the country. Tuberculosis, malaria,
diarrheas, dysenteries and parasitic infections directly attributable to
environmental deficiencies, are the more commonly observed of the important
communicable diseases. However, basic health services are improving and
centers for treating communicable diseases are being established at the
district level.
Sector Organization
30.       Although six different ministries, several autonomous agencies and
numerous Government organizations are active in the sector, no agency is in
charge of overall planning and programming of community water supplies and
sanitation in the country. At the central Government level, three organiza-
tions - the National Water Committee (NWC), the Hydrogeology Department of
the Ministry of Mineral and Water Resources (MMWR) arid, potentially the most
important, the Water Development Agency (WDA) - have key roles in water
development. Local government agencies are responsible for both water supply
and sanitation but, except for rudimentary waste disposal systems in Mogadishu,
only water supply is currently provided. Autonomous water supply agencies
exist in three major cities, i.e. Mogadishu, Hargeisa and Kismayu.



- 9 -
31.       The NWC is a national advisory group consisting of representatives
of the Ministry of Planning and other ministries and organizations active
in the sector.   It was created as a coordinating body with respect to all
water resource projects, but has not yet been effective in shaping sector
policies. MMWR's Hydrogeology Department is responsible for research and
hydrogeological studies, the collection and assessment of hydrometeorological
data and the design and implementation of groundwater exploration projects.
Shortage of staff, however, has reduced its effectiveness.
32.       WDA is one of four autonomous agencies under the MMWR, the other
three being the Mogadishu Water Agency (MWA), and the Hargeisa and Kismayu
water supply utilities. WDA was established in 1971 and is empowered to
provide technical assistance to both rural and urban communities through
several regional offices and a headquarters office located in Mogadishu.
Shortage of staff has limited its activities to minor construction. Design
and construction of piped water supply systems, financed through bilateral
assistance, generally are carried out by foreign consultants and contractors.
However, under the first Mogadishu Water Supply Project (Credit 822-SO), WDA
carried out test drilling and, as part of a joint venture, is also participa-
ting in the construction of the project's production wells.
33.       WDA is headed by a General Manager appointed by the President on
the recommendation of the Minister of Mineral and Water Resources. WDA is
partially funded through Government budgets and partially through revenue-
producing activities such as construction for other ministries. Various
development agencies are supporting WDA. The German Agency for Technical
Cooperation (GTZ) is supplying training and technical assistance, and the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID), under a grant
to MMWR for development of national water resources, will provide WDA with
commodity aid and the drilling required in several ongoing Bank Group-financed
agricultural projects.
34.       The Mogadishu Water Agency (MWA), an autonomous agency under the
MMWR, is responsible for water supply and, to a lesser extent, surface drainage
in Mogadishu. Sanitation currently is the responsibility of the Mogadishu City
Council. Upon the completion of the ongoing Mogadishu Sewerage and Drainage
project, the Government intends to give MWA the responsibility for operation
and maintenance of sewerage.
35.       Within the sector, the Ministry of Health has responsibility for
control over water quality and advising urban and rural committees on sanita-
tion. The Ministry of Agriculture implements projects which involve the
construction of tube wells and dug wells, and the Ministry of Livestock
provides watering points in rural areas for nomads. The Ministry of Industry
is involved in water development to meet irrigation water needs on its sugar
plantations and to meet process water and potable water needs at various plant
sites. However, none of these organizations has the capability of indepen-
dently planning and implementing water supply projects, and must depend upon
WDA, expatriate advisors, or consultants for such expertise, generally on a
project-by-project basis.



- 10-
Manpower and Training
36.       A severe shortage of technically-trained manpower, which derives
partly from Somalia's generally low education participation rates, exists in
all sectors and at all levels. The largest single factor in this situation is
the emigration of skilled manpower (including secondary teachers) to neighbor-
ing oil-producing countries. Others are the extremely low level of remunera-
tion throughout the public sector (the largest single employer) and the
inability to attract sufficient numbers of students to technical and vocational
schools. The National University in Mogadishu will not produce enough qualified
graduates, particularly in civil engineering, to meet Somalia's immediate needs.
37.       A training component in the first Mogadishu Water Supply Project
is intended to address these needs in two stages, the first being an overall
assessment of sector training needs and the design of a training program for
MWA; the second, implementation of MWA's training program. Moreover, a
GTZ-financed project to strengthen WDA has a substantial training component
which would be closely coordinated with the training component of the first
project. The well drilling component of a recently approved USAID project
would also strengthen WDA through training of WDA staff.
Sector Objectives
38.       The Government's objectives for the sector, which so far have been
expressed only in general terms, are to provide adequate, reliable and safe
water for domestic use and water for livestock, industry and agriculture
at modest prices throughout the country. These objectives are now being
developed through a cooperative program administered by WHO/Geneva and
financed by GTZ. This program, which was initiated in 1979 at Government's
request, would assist Somalia in meeting the sector objectives corresponding
to the recommendations adopted for the International Drinking Water Supply and
Sanitation Decade (1980-89) at the 1978 UN Water Conference in Mar del Plata.
The program would also provide the means by which an improved sector coordina-
tion could be achieved and would provide the basis for preparing sector
proposals relative to the next Five Year Development Plan (1982-86).
Sector Development
39.       In the early 1970's, USAID provided technical and financial assis-
tance for the construction of water supply systems in Kismayu and Mogadishu.
The People's Republic of China provided similar assistance in the mid and
late-1970's for the construction of water supply systems in Hargeisa and
Baidoa.
40.       The Five Year Development Plan for 1974-78 allocated So.Sh. 344
million for water supply. Sector projects included were for water supply only
and, with the exception of the Mogadishu water supply, were administered by
WDA. About 31 percent of planned investment was for urban water supply
projects (mainly Mogadishu, Berbera and Burao), 49 percent was for rural water
supply components (boreholes, shallow wells and basins), while the balance of
20 percent was for equipment, supplies and research. Due to Somalia's drought



- 11-
of 1973 to 1975, poor performance in project preparation, and financial
problems accentuated by the international energy crisis, planned expenditure
levels were not achieved. Total expenditures during 1974-78 amounted to only
So.Sh. 4.3 billion, while sector expenditures were only So.Sh.106 million.
41.       Somalia's Three Year Development Plan, 1979-81, which was launched
in January 1979, was mainly a composite of projects carried over from the
1974-78 Plan, although some new projects have also been added. The planned
expenditure based upon 1979 price levels was So.Sh. 7.1 billion, of which
about So.Sh. 0.4 billion was for the water supply and sanitation sector.
Donor assistance was committed for about So.Sh. 267 million, or about 68
percent of the total program cost for the sector. The Three Year Development
Plan emphasizes improving urban water supply and sanitation and gives somewhat
lower priority to rural water supply and supporting research. Because of
Mogadishu's high rate of population growth, its importance as Somalia's center
of government and its conspicuous deficiencies in water supply and sanitation,
the Government places a particularly high priority on sector improvements in
Mogadishu. Accordingly, the Bank's ongoing first water supply project is in
Mogadishu, directed mainly to the urban poor, living in low cost and temporary
houses. An initial phase of a Mogadishu sewerage and drainage project,
financed by the African Development Fund, the Islamic Development Bank and the
OPEC Special Fund, will serve a portion of those areas in Mogadishu which have
individual water connections.
Previous Bank Group Projects
42.       A US$6 million Credit was made in 1978 for the first Mogadishu
Water Supply Project (Credit 822-SO) to increase the water supply capacity
of the Mogadishu Water Agency (MWA), to strengthen MWA, and to assist in
the preparation of the proposed Second Mogadishu Water Supply Project. From
the first project, we have gained a fuller realization of the extent of
institutional weaknesses, and of the difficulties of estimating project costs
in Somalia's environment which is relatively unstable for contracting civil
works. Finally, we have learned to schedule project implementation more
realistically. In the proposed project, we are attempting to address these
difficulties by requiring MWA to appoint additional advisors, while improved
accuracy of cost estimates has been assured by basing them on bids recently
received on all major contracts included in the Project. Four other ongoing
Bank Group projects for agricultural and livestock development are also
assisting the development of the water supply sector through significant water
supply components.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Second Mogadishu Water
Supply Project - Somalia" (No. 3252-SO) dated March 26, 1982 is being dis-
tributed separately. A Credit and Project Summary appears at the beginning



- 12-
of this report and a Supplementary Project Data Sheet is given in Annex
III. A map (No. IBRD 15172) of the proposed project area is attached. The
project was prepared by MWA with the assistance of consultants, and appraised
by an IDA mission in July 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C.
from March 1 to 5, 1982. The Somali delegation was headed by H.E. Mohamud
Haji Nur, Ambassador of Somalia in Washington, and included Messrs. Osman
Haji Ali, Project Manager, MWA, Abbas Ahmed Yassin, Director of Budget,
Ministry of Finance and Ibrahim Abdillahi Deria, Economic Counselor, Embassy
of Somalia.
44.       The Government first expressed interest in Bank Group financing of
a Mogadishu water supply project in 1975 when water demands were approaching
supply capacity. A project to increase water production capacity through
the extension of Mogadishu's Balad road wellfield was originally envisaged
but, due to declining yield and deterioration of water quality, it was
recognized that effective augmentation would have to be preceded by water
resource investigations to identify the optimum locations and yields of
other more suitable alternative sources of supply. The first project
(Credit 822-SO), which was prepared by Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners (Gibb),
was designed as an interim project to assist in the preparation of the proposed
project through the inclusion of investigations of groundwater resources of
the Afgoi-Balad-Mogadishu triangle. These investigations were completed in
November 1979. A March 1980 report by the Institute of Hydrology (UK) sum-
marizing the results of the investigations and Gibb's "Stage II Final Report
of Feasibility Study for Mogadishu Water Supply Expansion" (May 1980) formed
the basis of the appraisal of the proposed project.
45.       The first project, which includes a modest increase in water supply
capacity, has also attempted to improve MWA's institutional effectiveness
by providing advisors and consultants for training, and for the design and
implementation of accounting systems and tariff studies. Although progress
in this institutional development effort has been slower than anticipated,
advisors were appointed, accounting consultants have completed their assignments,
and the work of tariff consultants and training consultants is underway.
Contracts for all major water supply additions have been awarded and work on
these contracts is approaching completion. Efforts tnder the first project to
improve the organization, management and effectiveness of MWA would be continued
and strengthened under the proposed project.
46.       Construction work under the first project iLs expected to be completed
by mid-1982, about two years behind schedule. Slippage in project implemen-
tation has been caused mainly by administrative delays on the part of MWA and
the Government. These delays, together with a change in the siting of the
production wells and the resulting need for additional transmission main
capacity, have caused a cost overrun of about US$7 million. Assurances have
been received from the Government that it will providle additional funds to
complete the project.
Project Objectives and Description
47.       The objectives of the proposed project are:  (a) to increase MWA's
water production capacity from 31 Mld to about 57 Mld; (b) to extend Mogadishu's



- 13-
existing water distribution system; (c) to continue efforts being made under
the first project to strengthen MWA as an institution through training,
consultancy and advisory services; (d) to develop an appropriate program for
meeting Mogadishu's future needs for sanitation; and (e) to assist in prepara-
tion of a future Mogadishu water supply project. The objectives are in
conformity with Somalia's sector objectives and the Bank's goals of encouraging
the optimum development of the country's water resources and helping Somalia
to achieve long-term, sector-wide institutional improvements.
Project Description
48.     The proposed project comprises the following:
(a) Civil works including: (i) extension of source of supply
works at the Afgoi Road wellfield consisting of access
roads, fencing, production wells, observation wells and
collector mains; (ii) distribution system reservoirs;
(iii) trunk mains, distribution mains and public taps;
(iv) a treated water pump station; (v) extension to MWA's
Afgoi Road power generating station; and (vi) test drilling
in support of water resource investigations for a future
Mogadishu water supply project.
(b) Mechanical and electrical equipment including: (i) a diesel-
drive electric generator set; (ii) transformers and switch-
gear; (iii) power supply lines and appurtenances; (iv) pumping
plant for wells and boosters; and (v) chlorinators;
(c) Miscellaneous equipment and supplies including: (i) vehicles;
(ii) workshop, tools and equipment; (iii) office furniture and
equipment; (iv) customer meters; and (v) other miscellaneous
equipment and supplies;
(d) Services of expatriate advisory staff; and
(e) Consulting services for: (i) accounting; (ii) low-cost
sanitation studies; (iii) construction supervision of the
proposed project; and (iv) water resource investigations
and engineering design of a future Mogadishu water supply
project.
Project Cost Estimate
49.      The total cost of the project, net of duties, taxes and interest
during construction is estimated at US$42.3 million equivalent.  Foreign
exchange costs would amount to US$33.4 million, or 79 percent of total project
costs.
50.       Cost estimates are based on bids received in late 1981 from contrac-
tors on five main contracts (three civil works contracts and two mechanical



- 14 -
and electrical plant contracts). Although the two plant contracts are being
retendered in conformance with the European Development Fund's procurement
procedures, the cost estimates for these two components are based on the
previously received bids, which appear to be reasonable. Base costs are
expressed in January 1982 price levels. Allowances for physical contingencies
have been added for the various project components, ranging from 10 percent to
30 percent for civil works, 15 percent for plant, equipment and supplies, 20
percent for engineering, and 10 percent for advisors and accounting consult-
ants. Price escalation for all components has been estimated at the following
inflation rates: (a) for the foreign exchange component: 8.5 percent for 1982
and 7.5 percent for 1983, 1984 and 1985; (b) for the local component: 30
percent for 1982; 25 percent for 1983, 20 percent for 1984, and 15 percent for
1985. The Government has waived duties and taxes on all imported goods and
services required for the first project and a similar waiver would be provided
for the proposed project. Estimated average man-month costs for consultants,
including salary, fees, international travel, and local subsistence cost,
range from US$9,000 to US$12,300.
Financing Plan
51.       IDA would co-finance the Project with the Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development (Arab Fund) and the European Development Fund (EDF).
The proposed IDA credit of SDR 13.4 million (US$15 million equivalent) would
cover about 40 percent of the foreign costs, and about 16 percent of the
local costs. Local cost financing is justified in view of the country's
poverty. The IDA credit would be used to help finance civil works contracts,
advisors and consulting services. The Arab Fund's loan of US$17.5 million
equivalent, which is provided on concessionary terms, would be used to help
finance the cost of civil works contracts, advisors and engineering services.
IDA and the Arab Fund would jointly finance one of the civil works contracts
and foreign costs associated with advisory services and supervision of construc-
tion. The EDF's grant of about US$5.5 million equivalent would finance the
two main plant contracts, miscellaneous equipment and supplies, and low-cost
sanitation studies. US$3.3 million equivalent of the local costs would
be met from MWA's internal cash generation, and US$1.0 million equivalent
would be provided by the Government. As a condition of Credit effectiveness,
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Arab Fund Loan Agreement
and the EDF Grant Agreeement shall have been fulfilled (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(b)).
52.      The terms of the onlending of the credit proceeds to MWA would
be twenty years maturity, including three years of grace, at an interest
rate of 10 percent per annum. These terms are similar to those of Government
loans to revenue-earning public agencies in Somalia. The Government would also
lend to MWA on the same terms an amount of 12.5 million Somali shillings
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(b)). The execution of the
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and MWA would be a condition
of Credit effectiveness (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(a)).
To provide for the prompt availability of local funds for the proposed project,
the Government would open a special bank account for the Project in the name
of MWA and deposit an initial amount of So. Sh. 6 million by September 30,
1982, and the remainder promptly as MWA shall request for the carrying out of
the Project (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(c)).



- 15 -
Project Implementation
53.       The Project would be carried out by MWA through their Project
Management and Planning Unit (PMPU) which was established to implement the
first project. MWA, however, will require considerable support from its
consultants and expatriate advisors. Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners (Africa),
a Nairobi-based firm involved in the first project, has been retained by MWA
as engineering consultants for the proposed project, and this is acceptable to
the Association. Detailed engineering design was substantially completed in
September 1981. Bids were received and awards on the three civil works
contracts are expected by mid-1982. The completion of construction and the
commissioning of the mechnical and electrical plant are expected by mid-1984.
Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that MWA would continue to
retain engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Association (draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.02).
54.       MWA is headed by a General Manager who, together with MWA's Directors,
is appointed by the President on the advice of the Minister of Mineral and
Water Resources. Most other staff are recruited through the Ministry of Labor
and Social Affairs. MWA has four departments, each headed by a Director. The
departments are responsible for: (i) operations and maintenance; (ii) finance
and administration (including accounting, purchasing and personnel); (iii)
project planning and management; and (iv) sewerage and drainage.
55.       MWA's management performance during the implementation of the first
project has so far been weak, as evidenced by delays in procurement and in
the appointment of personnel and consultants. Furthermore, staff morale
and motivation are low and there appears to be a lack of disciplined effort.
However, the retention and appointment of advisors, and the implementation
of a training program are expected to bring about improvements in the longer
term. The first project includes an important training component to assess
training needs of the water supply sector and to strengthen MWA. Consultants
commenced their work in June 1981, and submitted a draft report on the training
program in March 1982. A second report covering the assessment of sector
training needs is expected shortly. Under the first project, to strengthen
MWA's management capability, a Technical Advisor and a Financial Advisor were
appointed in 1979 to help improve MWA's financial and technical operations.
The need for this technical support continues to be important, and during
negotiations, it was agreed that the covenant under the first project would be
extended to include the appointment, by December 31, 1982, of a Management
Advisor to assist the General Manager and an additional Technical Advisor to
provide support in the effective development and management of MWA's water
resources. It was also agreed that the selection, qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of the advisors would be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.04). The costs of these advisors are
included in the proposed project. To ensure that the quality of MWA's manage-
ment is maintained during the period of Project implementation, assurances
have been obtained during negotiations (i) that the Project Management and
Planning Unit (PMPU) established under the first project would be maintained
until at least the completion of the proposed project, and (ii) that future
appointments to the positions of General Manager, Director of Technical



- 16 -
Operations, Dir-::-or of Finance and Administration, Director of the Sewerage
and Drainage Department and Head of the PMPU would only be made after consul-
tation with the Association (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.03).
Financial Aspects
56.      MWA's accounting system needs to be reformed to provide adequate
information to evaluate and control its financial operations and also to
provide information for financial planning. The first project provided
for the appointment of accounting consultants to design and assist in imple-
menting a commercial accounting system, conduct staff training and identify
additional staffing needs. The consultants completed the accounting system
design and the preparation of an accounting manual in October 1980. MWA subse-
quently has prepared an accounting implementation and related training program,
and the system is expected to be in operation by mid-1982. During negotiations,
it was agreed that: (i) the commercial accounting system designed for MWA
under the first project would be implemented by December 31, 1982; and (ii)
accounting consultants would be employed by December 31, 1982 to assist MWA in
its accounting operations (draft Project Agreement, Siection 2.05). MWA's
accounts are presently audited by the Magistrate of Aiccounts, who is indepen-
dent and reports directly to the President of the Supreme Revolutionary
Council. These audits are of a satisfactory standard. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that MWA will annually submit its audited accounts
to the Association, and not later than four months after the end of MWA's
financial year (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.02).
57.       Although information provided by MWA's accounting system is
inadequate to make a detailed evaluation of its past financial performance,
available information indicates that its revenues between 1977 and 1980
have been adequate to meet cash operating expenses and debt service as well
as finance a small amount of capital spending and inventory additions.
However, if it had been possible to measure MWA's annual rates of return
on revalued assets in recent years, these would have been negative. MWA's
accumulated cash at December 31, 1981 was adequate to meet its current lia-
bilities. At negotiations, assurances have been obtained that MWA's fixed
assets, which were revalued at December 31, 1981 at a replacement cost of
So.Sh. 371.28 million, less accumulated depreciation of So.Sh. 150.09 million,
would be further revalued annually using methods acceptable to the Association
(draft Project Agreement, Section 4.06).
58.       NWA's water tiriff has been maintained unchanged at a uniform metered
rate of So. Sh. 3 per m (US$0.90 per thousand US gal;) since MWA commenced ope-
rations in 1973 until May 19 1 when the uniform metered rate was increased to
So. Sh. 4.50 (US$0.36) per m . Further tariff increases will be required to
meet increases in MWA's costs caused by recent high inflation in Somalia and
the devaluation of the Somali shilling, and to bring IIWA's tariff levels
closer to long run marginal water supply cost,,. The cost of water production
Is high in Mogadishu because of the relatively low yield characteristics of
the supply sources. Under the first project, MWA was to employ consultants to
undertake a tariff study, but the appointment was delayed until the latter
part of 1981 when local consultants were employed. A draft report has been pre-
pared and completion of the study would be a condition of Credit effectiveness



- 17 -
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(c).  During negotiations,
assurances have been obtained that the Government would ensure that any
adjustments in the level or structure of MWA-s water tariffs will take into
account the recommendations made in the above mentioned study and the Associa-
tion-s comments on such recommendations (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.03). To ensure that MWA earns a reasonable rate of return on its
net fixed assets, it was also agreed during negotiations that MWA would
maintain its tariffs at levels sufficient to provide a minimum annual rate of
return on average revalued net fixed assets of not less than 2% in 1983 and
1984, 3% in 1985 and 1986, and 4% thereafter (draft Project Agreement, Section
4.04). It was also agreed that MWA will not incur any debt without the
Association's approval unless future debt service is covered at least 1.4
times by internal cash generation (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.03) and
that, until project completion, MWA will not incur annual capital expenditures,
other than for the proposed project, in excess of US$250,000 equivalent,
without a financing plan agreed with the Association (draft Project Agreement,
Section 4.05).
59.       MWAs outstanding accounts have deteriorated to an unsatisfactory
level and, at the end of 1980, were equal to about 111 days annual sales
compared to about 80 days at the end of 1979. This is mainly due to the
slow payment of Government accounts which represented about 72 percent of
receivables at December 31, 1980. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the Government would by September 30, 1982, reduce and thereafter
maintain its indebtedness to MWA to a level not exceeding 60 days of MWA's
annual water sales (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.04).
Procurement
60.       The project includes five main contracts (three civil works
and two plant contracts) and one or more minor goods contracts totalling
about US$36.5 million including contingencies, or about 86% of total project
costs, to be financed by IDA, the Arab Fund and the EDF. IDA and the Arab
Fund would each separately finance one civil works contract and jointly
finance the remaining civil works contract. These three contracts, for
which prequalification was required, are estimated to total about US$30.6
million, about 72% of total project costs, including contingencies, and
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accor-
dance with Bank Group procurement guidelines. Power plant, pumping plant and
associated equipment together with vehicles, tools and miscellaneous equipment
and supplies, totalling about US$5.9 million equivalent including contingencies
and to be financed by the EDF, would be grouped in two main plant contracts
and one or more minor supply contracts. Procurement would be made according
to EDF competitive bidding procedures.
Disbursements
61.       Retroactive financing of up to US$100,000 equivalent is proposed for
payments made after March 1, 1982 to finance the initial cost of consulting
services for water resource investigations. The Credit would be disbursed



- 18 -
to meet selected portions of the project costs as follows: a) for civil
works: (i) 100% of total expenditures for well construction and test drilling,
and (ii) 32% of total expenditures for construction of roads, mains and other
wellfield works and the construction of reservoirs, a pump station, trunk
mains and other works in Mogadishu; (b) 40% of foreign expenditures for
advisors; (c) for consulting services: (i) 100% of foreign expenditures for
accountants, (ii) 50% of foreign expenditures for construction supervision,
and (iii) 100% of foreign expenditures for water resource investigations and
design engineering. Any undisbursed funds remaining from the Credit after
completion of the project would be cancelled. The proposed closing date for
the Credit would be December 31, 1985. This allows a period of about 18
months after the scheduled completion of project facilities and approximately
6 months after the scheduled completion of detailed engineering for the future
Mogadishu water supply project.
Environmental Impact
62.       As a result of the project, some improvement to public health is
anticipated due to provision of safe water to an increased proportion of
the population. The project would have no adverse environmental impact.
Benefits and Risks
63.       The proposed project would meet Mogadishu's water requirements until
1987. It would resolve the city's present water supply shortages by increa-
sing MWA's firm production capacity by about 80% (from 31 Mld to 57 Mld) and
would extend MWA-s distribution grid from a service area of about 20 sq. km.
to about 45 sq. km., thus making potable water more accessible to Mogadishu's
population. The project would also continue efforts that have started under
the first project to strengthen MWA by continuation and expansion of advisory
support for MWA management and their Project Management and Planning Unit.
The benefits of improved water supply facilities will not be fully effective
without corresponding improvements in sanitation; the proposed project would,
therefore, include the financing of low-cost sanitation studies.
64.       An estimated 640,000 persons (including about 320,000 of the urban
poverty group) which do not presently have reasonable access to public water
supplies, would be provided with water service by the proposed project in
1987. A recent survey undertaken as part of the tariff study mentioned in
paragraph 58 indicates that projected tariff levels would be affordable by all
consumers, including those in the poverty group, many of whom would pay
considerably less than the high price presently payable to private water
vendors.
65.       The incremental financial rate of return (IFR) is estimated at
about 5.6 percent, based upon the estimated 1985 average tariff level of
So.Sh. 9.40 per cu. m. (expressed in constant 1982 prices). A 20% increase in
capital costs of the project would cause the IFR to decline about 1.9 percent.
Due to the extent of unsatisfied water demands, a decrease in water sales from
projected levels is unlikely. The financial rate of return, which is rela-
tively low, underestimates the real economic return because health and amenity
benefits for a project such as this are impossible to quantify.



- 19 -
66.       The main project risks lie in MWA's institutional weaknesses which
could have an adverse effect on project implementation and subsequently on
the maintenance and operation of the project facilities. To minimize these
risks, the proposed project provides for the employment of advisors to
support MWA management during project implementation. The ongoing efforts
under the first project would help to improve MWA-s effectiveness through
a comprehensive training program and the establishment of commercial accounting.
67.       Given the present status of investment planning, the need for
immediate action to remove current water supply deficiencies and financial
constraints, the proposed project represents the most acceptable of the
several technical alternatives considered. These alternatives include two
projects dependent upon local groundwater and a project dependent upon a
surface water supply from the Shebelli river.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Somali Democratic
Republic and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Associa-
tion and the Mogadishu Water Agency and the recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section 3 of Annex III to this
report.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 6, 1982



-20 -                                                           -mx 
Page 1 of 4
SOMALIA - SOCtAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SOMALIA                          REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE8AGES
LAND AREA (THUUSAND S4.)                                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATEA
TOTAL            637.7                                     MOST RECENT           LDW INCOME              MIDDLE INCVF4E
.S RICCULTURAL    299.2                 1960  7b   1970 /b ESTIMATE 2b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAMARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER LAPITA (USS)                      70.0        90.0    185. O/e               2:18.3                 794.2
.SNRCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KtLOLGRAILS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       17.1        34.9       77.7                 70.5                   707.5
POPULATION ANL VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    2450.0        3113.0    3828.0
URbAI. POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    17.3        23.1      29.4                 17.5                    27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAa 2000 (MILLIONS)                           6.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            17.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KH.                           3.8         4.9        6.0                 27.7                    55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         7.0         9.0       12.5                 73.7                   130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            43.8        46.5       43.8                 44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                            53.5        51.6       54.1                 52.4                   51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.7          1.9       2.1                  2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOaAL                                 1.9         2.4        2.3                  2.6                    2.8
URIlAN                                4.9          5.3       5.0                  6.5                     5.1
CRUDE SIRTFZ RATE (PER TFZOUSAND)      49.3        46.9       46.4                 45.9                    46.9
CRUDE DEATK RATE (PER THOUSAND)        28.7         24.4      20.1                 19.3                    15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.2          3.0       3.0                  3.1                     3.2
FANZILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, AINNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOKEN)       ..          ..
FOOU AND NUTRIrION
UNDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
F?R CAPITA (1969-71-100)             97.0        100.0      82.0                 89.5                   89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY Ur
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
tEQUIREMXNTS)                      85.0        85.0       88.0                 90.2                   92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             73.0        72.0       70.0                 52.7                   52.8
OF WHICH ANINAL AND PULSE          45.0        45.0       41.0                 17.8                    16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) tIORTALITY RATE       42.5        35.4       29.8                 27.3                   20.2
HEALTH
TTFI EXPECTANCY AT 8IRTI (YEARS)       36.1        40.0       43.9                 45.8                   50.8
INFANT MlORTALITY RATE (PER
TNDUSAND)                                 ..         ..
ACCESS T SAVE WATIS (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..        13.0       33.0                 23.9                   27.4
UgLAN                                  ..        17.0       58.0                 55.0                   74.3
MORAL                                  *         14.0       20.0                 18.5                   12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
Of POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..       47.0                 26.2
URBAN                                  ..          ..       77.0                 63.5
RURAL                                  ..          ..       35.0                 20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            36567.2    23583.3   18484.8                31911.8                13844.1
POPULATION P1R NURSING PERSON        6218.3      4112.3         *-               3674.9                 2898.6
POPULATION PER 6X8PITAL BED
TOTAL                               693.7       637.6     614.5                L238.8                 1028.4
URAN                                144.6       271.1         *.                272.8                  423.0
RULAL                              5643.1      7102.5         *-               1745.2                 3543.2
ADNISSIONS PER  DQSPITAL 6ID
bUUS INC
AMUGE SZ OF H0USE6OLD
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
Ug3A                                   ..          ..         .                     ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..        5..
AVEZACE MIZRIE OF PIRSONS PER ROOK
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBZAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..         .                     ..
ACCZSS TO ELECTIlCITY (PEZCENT
OF DWELL7NCS)
TOTAL                                  ..           .         .
RURAL                                  ..          ..
RURZAL                                 ..          ..         .                     ..



- 21 -
SOMALIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS !~T SHErT
8DNAL1.A                    lFECE CRtOUPS (U! IGNTRO Avr!"GES
- tfST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MST RECENT            UW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  L    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHIARA AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
U)tlCATIOM
AJUSTEO ENtOLLMENT RATIOS
PRINARYs    TOTAL                 9.0        9.0       .0                 56.4                  71.7
HALE                1.0         14.0     57.0                 70.7                  94.6
UZIALE               1.0        3.0      32.0                50.1                   79.0
SECOWAIT:  TOTL                   1.0        4.0       4.0                10.0                   1.i
MALZ                 2.0        7.0 o      .0                 13.4                  23.3
rUALE                0.2        2.0       2.0                  4.6                  14.4
VOCATIOAL EOL. (1 OF SECONDARY)  .           3.0      2s.0                 8.0                    S.3
FUPIL-TEACHEX RATIO
niMARY                           29.0       32.0      27.0                46.5                  36.2
8CONDARY                         20.0       24.0      14.0                23.5                  23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PEtCENT)       1.5/c      3.0      60.0/L              25.5
CoNsunrTlON
PASSENGEi CARS PER TNOUSAND
POPIULATION                       1.2        2.2        *                  2.9                  32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSANID
POPULATION                       9.8        16.1      20.5                32.6                  ".0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         ..         ..        ..                 1.9                   6.0
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENEIRAL
IINTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 1.0        1.4       1.0                 2.0                  20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.4       1.7        ..                 1.2                   0.7
LASOR FORCE
TOT" LABORFORCE (THOUSANDS)    1017.5       120B.J   1704.8
PENALE (PERCENT)                 30.0       29.7      25.i                34.1                  3G.7
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)            47.9       64.7      63.5                60.0                  56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               4.4         3.9       7.9                 5.6                  17.5
TARTICIPATION RATE (PIECENT)
TOTAL                              41.5       38.6      44.5                41.7                  37.2
ALE                                58.7       55.2      67.3                54.3                  47.1
nUtALE                            24.7        22.6     22.2                 29.2                  2.3
ECOMIC DEPENDENCY tATIO               1.1        1.2      0.9                  1.2                   1.3
:ttICE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCONE
R1CEIVED BY
UHIGEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          .        ..                   ..
IICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   ..         .         .*
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         ..
LOWE5T 4* PERCENT OF HWUSEHOLDS    ..         ..
POVERTY TARGET CROUPS
ESTIMIATED AibSOLUTE POVERTY INCWME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
uA                                 ..         ..    130.0                134.0                 361.2
RURAL                              ..         ..    110.0                  4.5                 136.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
IfU                                ..         ..     45.0                 ".1                  334.3
UILAL                             ..          ..      50.0                41.2                 137.4
2STIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOWhE
7O0rErY INCOHE LEVEL (PERCENT)
Uk                                 .-         ..     40.0                 39.7
aUIUL                              .          ..     70.0                 46..
Net available
.   appl.cable.
30TR1
L    The Srop aveoraose for each lndicator are population_-%llhted aritmetic means. Coverage at countrieg
oen   the Indlcators depends ae avaLlabilIty of data end Is not uniform.
Lb   Unloce otherwiae noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwen 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betvwm 1969
*ed 1971; and for Moet Recent EattIste, beteen 1974 end A1795  /e    1978 iestlmate.
L    1942, /d Incream  due to literacy cipeign of 1974.
Wey. 191



22                                               ~~~~~~Annex 1
-22-                                                ~~~~~Page 3 of 4
IxRPo5TIRSS or  OCIAL tIOICATOS
gotas:  Although the data are drne  true ear...ae.. gnrally Judgad the weot -baoha Inetie aed reliable, it chaUld alsoho  no ted than they my  at ha inter-
natiueally n-poarthlt bcu-  of the lack of ctaadrdieed defitiona  edd concpts usd by different noatrlae i. noloeottog the data.  The dana are, sf0-
thebes., uaafol to de...rihe order. of cunltade. indicate creedo. ead uheetarm0.. certi  aJar differse-oe hterm            outre
That. .ater..c  grup  art (I) the  amo  -cuncr  group of the cobjeot o-unry en  (2) a conatry  oop with  MAeabt highe  avragjee,toas  thea the c..-tfy trop
of the  objoot nuonosy (eacpt for 'Capital Sarplue oil Reot r.'gop cha. "Ptiddl.ic  ao   earth Africa and Siddle taco" to ch...o houut of  C.strne
coda-cultua  affI nitiec).  In the CO..cet  trop data  h n..0.S.  ara ppulatin weighted arlthettc .aae far ouch iodicato.r cod chan  only  ha
nejoriny of tho uauotrice in a group he. deco for Chet idI.diacr.   loot the.uerg   fco ram"n  the iadluatere depando or the  reilbhility of data
aed Ia  onanfue   auinmt he ecrolcad in relating  ...ragee of -c  indIcatur to ao-ther   Thee  argt  are oly u..eful Is conpoti  the ruI.t of
oe indictor at a  ic c--o  ths runtry o   rfroc  groupt.
LAWAU&  (thoac-d eqA.h.)                                                                      Petainpr tooco  Sod - total. arb.. u-d carol1 - Pupulettos ktotl.
Total - Total.. tuf ca er. no upriane lund are  end Inluod -aer.                              che.        url  divided hy thfar r-peoir- A-her cf hoapltal hbda
4gi-Itjpral - taiotint  atarcltrla-  aced taporar ily cc peonanotly                           aralabl  In public ae  priuoc igeoar.) -cd epeotutead boepita1 an  re-
ar arc . peot-ra. arkoc ud ktchoho g.rdooc or no IIo follow; 1970 data                    habilitotiuo coer.  tapcl   r   aalsetcposnaenly cot fa-d
hy an lensn  -n  phao        I.Rttblahlib n  rparidir.s pricunp.Lly uuato-
uppl   APyAUicS) -MP per caPita  atineta. at -ar-  ashen prices. . c-                           dia  care crt not toludd.  taso1 huptl.  ono.I inolade health
culatod hy oea-  -eresel -t ahad ee World Seek Atda. (1917-79 heel); 1960.                    od adi elenters not paraneni   tneffsd by a phycIisi- (hot hy a
190  ean  1979 data.                                                                      adta  aecictat. ease, eldwifa., eta.) rhlch offer in-patient ..coe-
datin and pr--d  a iwgocd range af  .,dl.aI failitlee.  For otecie-
0555  CW0)GCU P   CaITA -  tA-, ca.... tio- of co-trail) aor   (coal                        tita  prp-en  abshe  hepitalc  -lncldc         prW. pa/goaolhapica1s.
en  isia.pnoltan  no.CaI See and hydra- ..nalea  eod ganth:mal ale-                  and r-ral b.cpita14 luou    torrrel hoaitlsl an  adicel cod atcrnty
trlicIy) in kllogruoo  of c..el aquirloet per capita; 19CR. 170, ae  i979                     center..  Sp.ttaLced hocpitelc are  -Inldd only -nda  totol.
dat.                                                                                        AI lo,une oa   tortleSd - Totel  ,tte  of odnicioa  to e  dlechArgec
fr   ,.ositl  dividd by the   &.rc of bad..
Total prooEcian  aid-y.ear(chot_.oode) - A. at July 1; 1960, 1970. end 1979                ftSS
date,                                                                                     itrt   ieo  uahl   rraaorhuood      oa.ubo.ad rural -
Orb  Poclaionicocat a t total  - Rtio ofura  to total populacic;                        A    chl   octaofd a  rupo               inieltse  abas  Lrio    ott
difftr-n  dafiItIc.- cf  rhaa arena my afau  aCap-ilicy of data                            ca  chair aRc aals.  A ho..rder or lodger cay or my out he include  in
-sa   -oatrie; 1550, 1970, ead L979 det.                                                  Atho hnr =dfar ecttiaciuni puspooe .
ProolatLo  Prlcin                                                                          Aa.aotr  ofpenraon  paf roan - toal   rbn!             adree  - AwarSag . -
Pecultion in mro  2000 - Current population projcutIune use bhc..d Cn 19S0                  her of Pes.a." Par stow is all ashe.oatraocaldonninl
roa   ouaioa by ag*o ad   a atd chtsr a-tolity cod fertility ratnes.               dsellIage. raepecti-rly.  Ooclliae eClods no-pconaCoat  tstoucoe  end
Pro),tcioo paramtasc fur aorcality -aca. trten  of chrea loya. aeco-                      aatopied Parts.
maS lifeat.   na  00.t-   hioth in-rejia  with uoutsy' erpo  caPita looca"             Al=ec  no gleotricitw  (nacntf dnnlIs) - oa.ora.td  oar
lavul. -d talc  life  bnernyaeiliniag at 77.7 YnoO LCTheps-CZeinldclig   lbea iip 11mg qoa:7                                                f rftss   eprcg
acera f or fertility  at. alto hove tbsra le-al  eealng' den   oof t.otl, arhen, and rusa  dwelling  rarpactirely.
fascilicy o.o.rdio  to Iwoon  lo-d  ad pot fenily PI.lani   pesftore-c.
hueh  .trety it than  o.aigeed one ofthes   netuatio of e-telity
and fertility  rad   f f  roetion p-orpotaUtic
the birch roco Ic  qual to the death rate. ead alco the age etrotusr.-                     aesolatf all ag., etteprtas  bowTeltoa ts'-'tentogc f reepectiro
miss cunoceat.  This La ahlese  only aft.. fertility Iac  datlino4 to                       prnoery toboo-oga ppulatiaoe; nornolly taldeChildre  age  6-11
the relam tboe of_It eat r-prdoacita raate  each ge-aafeti                                 ydra hWc adjated fos differen  lengthe a  Pt prsy edno-tio; for
of  -na  replaoaa itself en"tly.  Ths ototicory papueotios at.. usecatra  with. aarcas  adautioa toorllOeoa   myaedo iO percen
ettiated en the heti  of the psanotad  hb.racteiencte of the popaloniLon                   teoo  can pcpilc  . arc hale   asab-v  the official eahoo  ago.
Ia the yeas 20900  cad ctIset of de1lice of fertility st. t replace-                     Seceder   hel    nata.  nelo cad fae ItceId us lb-.tardr
mat level.                                                                                  .d.tinr4fa at lat fofyor of o.p                    d prfsty Isatsoctian
Teas etac.oas  ooult Lo i -retd - Tb. yeas  hen stationory pcpneclol                          Pr.-Ide general, roctsieoal, ortcouche  cretol   inert-tloef. d   Pnplk
siac hoe hec reaced.                                                                       a lpof ii to  I7 yev.  of age; ....ssapeeAa coece  ar  goeecrall
-  i-eas puelatts  o,pe  cqosrc killoato  (100 hectes..c) of                Tre4qleeietipreto   acdrl- boocanl Id-cteIansI.
tota  area  I9C  1907 aod 1979 datd.                                                       Remade toceicaol. indotrie.osal es.  pragra "'ich op"rt  indevad-
Pa   e.h.CeitltralSee   -  aple   sebv  for aglalaa              Wln                   ently ora  dpsteteo   ecnar   eciatae
o Ly  I96, 197  and  975data                                                         Pto4-naa   ai      ram    e   ead -                ITtel stcdencerold
Frooatin An  scoarOc-eaoen  - Chldren(0-14 yera            k riag-.p  (15-               psery andaena     lae"le dirldd by mAterc of taao-Ls   Lb.th
Cd  ear) *codretred(CSyou. end =owes)a  percentage  of nld-yens pope-                 oarsepnndia  lav-l..
latlon; 1960. 1970, ad 1979 dat.                                                            Manitra   aafocn~- itarete edolts (abla to read and -itn)
Pc-n-ten, urowh Rate toercon) - 7rca). - Ade-Ia grtwh sCole of total Wi-                        c  apnrooetga  of casto   dlt papuLatin Sagm  15 peaa andows
yesppotlacue, for 1$O-S. lPC-7R. and 1970-79.
Peuaftin RrIt  ha    pset) - uba  - An1cal~ go th  a. of urban papa-
- ltoaf. o1950-CR  10-0.an   170-7.                                                        PaFca   a.ra  haadooltin      ecee   r    arc    ne
popoanin;  940  190,  nd  979dat .  bbadaetttagenral.ttti pe  neoend fofpeetdd                                                                  nldeeen
Orae  Seeodacian   ate    Araag ottr 'o du tase a uda  wil bdear Cs                   iccesd fsiws  to ceestiea ad  i yer whn t rag  I"T"aia   ato red&*
he.n,   a  rardttePeriod if thbnposlooce. pseat ce-pwneifia fer-                            sets` owe in  War; data far sent pears my not he tan Irbl  aen
ility stoat; ucealy ti-re-ya   -rre  eadieg in 1940. 1970. en  1979.                        at  eowtrioa ehliahe   Iceecileg.
Penis Oltaun  -    ULeMfe   ne     ic )ane  - A-anl cones at eacepoors               IV=         &j r!V      M2Lgyr    esthuadgonenlata   -,TVssiro  far brtadotae  t
of birth-control descc  ada  aupce           t eaiul fo-iy pi-Inng Propen                   genra  palopa  thoemee  Cnaie;  -atlndee cliee.w  TVocnvs
PealsPlcclc    Oera(ercn-   t eri   wn  - PercentcS. of  rrIed                        is emotrins aod in F"..e when saIlraniu  ef TV ante  a  in  Wtat.
rosof ohlld-berig age (I5-A  yera)b  wet bi,trc-conro  devises to                     Veqpcaialolnie   hnodenioe                          - -~w  the   crae air-
al -niad"    t  Is ta        aegoP-.                                                     Iaalnc'"el   e a  iateseet canpepr   dad ted se aporedloal
poblicatlon deveotd prAoisiy  to seerig  eoroln-en.  In Ia noesi -ded
p0* A55 enygif ItO                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~to he rdily- it it appease at  -ec tens tone a wee.
Lcon  Coleadas your Molea.  Coiditie owa prissy geada (cm8. oqorst                        ad abilo  -nit..
inatad of suga)  biob ar  edibla ad coti  enisCWt  (e.g. -(f-  -ata
tea are  luded).  Agorngtt pradnttan of -.  Cokenenty is based -nl~
ouafsea  a'rcoag  prcdtoar rIse weoghte; 19461-65,  71970. ad 1979 data                  !~jpLm              Jf,a)-  tafolyttapecn.nsdIag
Per -nite oorr of talerga   nacn  ofseaian.  - Cape"tad f sow                                                            henw= j    slaimg basav. etedent. et.
ensrg  geivaleat of set food tpplloc availble Cn canty P..er cpita                       tewo,tog polulctin of all ag.  gsflitCso- in vasboo, raonria 
Par da.   Av-Ilable   ,P appis  Caprien de tis prodennia. Repasts leac                   not cepaale  14. 1970 ad 1975 dens.
ewre.  d ah-og. in ettk.  get supline eaclde anI 0 a. anode.                       awe ingini     - Poala Icho  f-c  ea par-C.ag  of total labo  force.
qeatitio  Wend in fad Prt.-ing. end Io.-a  in ddatshbtlon. aeqeie-                     hNhgaie.9AFfdfO4M) . loabo  ferca in foanin. faroanry, matieg aed
aete  ena ustintoed byPA  haonphycioLegical Wneda for ata  eaci-                         9         oei aporeroato    of total labo  foreat; L90, ISy0 ad 1979 data.
wiry aed health c--ederiog eoloaoo  tnatere. btdy "ligt., ag                           Iv V osesestgl  - Debar forre in edniag.  -tatutien. iientcsfe
a caditoihetion cf             leoalo,ad ol ig10 parsent fnr owe. at                ad    etIsity. setar aed gee as p-roownaeto total labor force; 19410.
he hoahld leve; 1pal-t5. 1970. aed 1977 data.                                            1970 ad 1979 dat.
Per capc.o oen PofL sotan  oanea    r  - Protein c-enent of Per caPita                   Paasnte    aetacat) - oa.el,a   eoe-PtIsieRac
eat tpply      fod parday.Sot aply   fefad is defined as aboe.  Pa-           eaiiyrteeanptn   attl.c .a.fl   ao  farac a
cuiranta for all cetotsisc  -etbIlabod by USDA prorda fesnna                             psotg   ftotal. -le ad tae-1  paps1ation, af dl, cga  soeattli-Li
alonet  o f 60p Pof etoItal pstain per day aed 29 pan  of eains  aod                      10,1979, ad 1979 data.  Them ore booe  en RtOa pernipotlm,fe  rstea
paIne protein, of odbR  10 gsa  ehanl  he etine  pstei.  Theem eead-                     safl_ateg  ge_e   a_norar  at the pop.telatian     Jad  e   tim trad.  A
.rd. am. los than themn of 75 era  of totl prot.ein ad  p5-s  of                        tfw e.tdetc  era f- roeai-am  cenoea
toino  protei  us an aveag  for theanl.  pra,"pe-d by FAf in rhe Thr                    S 4.0 zeD                    Ratio of poeplattn adar 15 aed 65 ad owe
WorId road gusry; 1961-45. 1970 ad 1977 dAta.noseatlabrfc.
Forta  n  sotiomelrfrnaRldeap  - Prtein appl  o f fad da-
rII.d  hoe enmc ad pals. ings   per da; 1941.45, 1970 ad17dt                                ggsgv
Chil  1 oee (41   srcainv   ate tac  tatd  - hA--  detbo Per thetw-d L.            1ij7jjve Is(ehi  ces   ad And  - RaceSee  by ribheet
a0ge pee  1-4 yeer.s  te chldeni  this Age gr-Pp  fa  -cc dessopegce-                    q perc   iht  0pr.                 pooret  9post, ad peoreer 40 poren
triac data dcsivd f ro  life nablce  190.0 1970 aed 1979 dat.                              ohet   eaie
IAi....artitiaaa                 ea-.e   d-tshfre  f ief   it.  ralninem   "        uorR. A          0.
:t.    "I,(L-Ldeet.- doe                                                            adIe-.w   hteiterpreed wttdoanidrlhdn  anagen
AaeaecaRaftthin  (enscet o   onltot  total,ew          she,adreo  - b"                        etrit  ecli  edoqea.ta  iope   aetalceOa   a                   t is eat
C             . fpal  (oa,ei.. P,    d                                                                  thral) withOvsanetesbLis totes te ate-
a-tei supl  ttoid          leratd  awsftoc otera o0  eat...ted  bat aneatadete           bise         iniePvnt    e    .oa   06  p   stl      osadran
fninoetaodpu   bote atI       ncaen29acs   ra             eoam   b                   ne wicb ad1jesceet far higher sat of livin  Ae oas  rae
do nothere tu epand   dtap-tp-tioeeto Port of the day in ftchin  theoo
fadtlye. eater eade
A-ce  to X-reto" iaoa    lesa    tooo            e - toal  orbs, ad  M4ol 
panget o  their reepeati  . Pupltiuca.  Racenta dispesol mwy inlada
teb  Calloogion ad dRapa-s,l. wth or  cwithsun tract, at tan  mrat                                                             seemec ad a-eralD- ftotepivc
adowens-power by atorb-ha  tyets or           mea  ot pit prun-e ad nei                                                  snlaayc    d Prnjtocao   enpastflt
lasm featalletued  -. eole       e-   t            t   .a
Diwata   -   erC            ea - Population divided by -Oor at pseanisoag
Il. ad talc Pedoete res,oo preatica eora, ad aeinteet oerae.



SOMALIA                                                                                Amex I
Page 4 of 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORLS
GNP PER CAPITA: USS185 (1978)/
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                           MONEY, CREDITS AND PRICES
1976    1977    1978    1979             1980
(Killion So. Sh)             (Prem. Actuals)                                                 Dec.      Dec.      Dec.       Dec.      Dec.
1976      197?      1978       1979      1980
Total Revenue                            671      843    1420    1526             1421                                                                        (Million So. Sh.)
Current Expenditure                      649       770    1361    1573            1618
Current Surplus or Deficit(-              22        73       59   (-)47         (-)197               Bank Claims on Government (Not)   124.4    -97.8            311.1   1,231.3   1,902.4
Development Expenditure                   165      211      187      224           201               bank Claims on Private Sector
Extra Budgetary Expenditure              797      609      823    1388            1372                  sod Public Enterprises              986.4  1,280.7  1,404.6   1,725.7   1,977.2
overall Deficit                           940      747      951    1609           1770               Money Supply                           994.9  1,325.1  1,728.0   2,335.2   2,783.2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                                                                    (Percentage or Isndex Nombera)
1976    1977    1978    1979             1980               General Price Index (1977-100)           90.8    100.0      110.0      136.2       217.1
(Mi-llion US Dollars)       (Provisional)          An~nual Percentage Change in:
General Price Index                  14.7        9.8      10.0       23.8        59.4
Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)            81.1    71.3   109.3   106.0             137.0                Bank Claim on Private Sector
Merchadise imports (c.i.f.)3!         -176.1  -206.0  -275.2  -394.1             333.5                  and Public Enterprises                -5.3      29.8       9.7       22.9         14.6
Trade Balance                          -50-3. -1.9-288.1                        -196.5               Money Supply                            20.5       33.2      30.4       3511.
Services, Net                          -15.1    -6.4    -4.9   -11.6              -6.8               MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
Transfers, Net                          43.9   119.0   105.7    94.0             129.7
Current Account Balance                -66.2   -2 2.1   6-65.1  - 20-5.1        _'7.T                                                         Average 1976-78               1979                    1980
USS Nba.       Z        11S6 Kin        I          US$ min. 
Long-Term Capital. (Net)                67.6    64.0    78.7    83.7              25.5
Short-Term Capital and                                                                               Livestock                                 60.9       69.1          75.3         71.0         108.9      79.5 
Errors and Omissions                   1.0    -6.8    -7.3   +39.5             +18.9               Bananas                                  15.2        17.2          11.6         11.0           7.8       5.7   v.a
Reserves and Belated Items              -2.4   -35.1    -6.3    82.5              29.2               Meat and Meat Products                     3.0        3.4           1.2          1.1           1.2       0.9
Hides and Skinsrdut                       3.8        4.3           9.0          8.5           4.8        3.5
Fish and Fish Prdcs1.5                               1.7           0.4          0.4           0.2       0.1
International Reserves (end yeer)   84.9   120.0   126.3    43.8                  14.6               Others                                     3.7        4.3           8.5          8.0          14.1      10.3
Total                                    88.1      100.0         106.0        100.0         137.0     100.0
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                     EXTERNAL DEBT
From 1973 to June 1981        US$1.0O-6.295
from July 1, 1981, Somalia has a dual exchange rate:                                                                                    USNn
US$1.00 - 6.295 (for essential imports)                                                                                         U$Mn
U1551.00 - 12.59 (all other transactions)                                               Public Debt (Dec. 31, 1980)1.I          1,098.8
(of which disbursed)                  (693.0)
DEBT SERVICE RATIO 
Public Debt 1980 (estimate)             18.0
(ind. arrears)
IDA LENDING (February 28, 1982)_   US$ Mio.
Outstantding and Disbursed               94.07
Undisbursed                              53.57
Outstanding iae. Undisbursed           147.64
Karcb iWZ
1/ Based on tentative estimates of National Accounts recently prepared by the Bank staff.
2/The import data for 1978 and 1979 include (but for previous years exclude) Franco Valuta imports..
3/Excludes undisburmed cowmitmeuts from Lsct European countries, totalling US$154 million,
which are not expected to be disbursed any further.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1981) - Expressed in US $
(US$ Million)
Amount Undisbursed
(net of cancellations
No.    Year   Borrower              Borrower              and exchange adjustments)
Seven credits fully disbursed                                   40.10
462-SO  1974   Somalia            Trans-Juba Livestock           10.0       1.9
511-SO  1974   Somalia            Second Education                8.0       0.3
623-SO  1976   Somalia            Drought Rehabilitation          8.0       2.5
635-SO  1976   Somalia             North-West Agriculture         10.0      3.6
698-SO  1977   Somalia            Somali Development Bank         5.0       1.1
699-S0  1977   Somalia            Third Highway
(Hargeisa-Borama)              7.0        3.5
738-S0  1977   Somalia            Third Education                8.0        5.8
821-SO  1978   Somalia            Technical Assistance            3.0       2.4
822-SO  1978   Somalia            Mogadishu Water Supply          6.0       3.2
838-S0  1978   Somalia            Fourth Port                     5.5       2.0
905-S0  1979   Somalia            Agriculture Extension          10.5       9.7
906-SQ  1979   Somalia            Central Rangelands              8.0       7.0
972-SO  1979   Somalia            Bay Agriculture                12.0      11.6
1043-S0 1980   Somalia            Petroleum Exploration
Promotion                      6.0        5.8
1105-S0 1981   Somalia            Fourth Education               10.2 1/   10.2
Total                        157.3       70.7
of which has been repaid       0.7
Total now held by IDA        156.6
1/ US Dollars equivalent of SDRs at time of negotiations.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 J .1
B. Statement of IFC Investment
(As of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                                   (Amount in US$ Million)
Year              Obligor                              Loan    Equity    Total
1981               Somali Molasses Co. Ltd.             0.375      -         0.375
Total commitments                    0.375      -        0.375
Disbursed by IFC                     0.375      -        0.375



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION1/
(As of September 30, 1981)
Credit No. 462:   Livestock (Trans-Juba) Project; $10 million credit of
February 20, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Despite poor performance in the past, the holding ground/stock
route/borehole complex is now expected to be completed before the closing
date.
Credit No. 623:   Drought Rehabilitation Program -- Juba-Shebelli Emergency
Settlement Scheme; $8 million Credit of July 7, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: August 31, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1982.
The Project, conceived during the 1973/74 drought emergency was
inadequately prepared. As a result, it now appears that there is marginal
potential for rainfed cropping, the project's main thrust. It was since
agreed to restrict initial development to trial areas where different crops,
cultivation techniques and alternative machinery can be tested.
Credit No. 635:   North-West Region Agricultural Development Project; $10
million Credit of July 7, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
February 9, 1977; Closing Date: June 30 1983.
Physical progress has improved recently. The field bunding program
and the construction of livestock water points are both ahead of schedule.
However, field utilization and production data have yet to be collected, and
applied research and extension are deficient due to lack of water. The
arrival of the Financial Controller and the Project Planner should improve
performance, especially as regards bottlenecks of supplies, materials, fuels,
seeds and other farm inputs. External training is being organized and a test
drilling contract was recently awarded.
1/  These notes are designed to give information regarding the progress of
projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems which are
being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They should
be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not purport
to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project
execution.



- 27 -                           ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Credit No. 698:   Somali Development Bank; $5 million Credit of June 1, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
SDB's volume of operations and also disbursements under the IDA Credit
to date was slower than projected due mainly to the poor climate for
industrial investment in Somalia. SDB has now committed up to 90% of the
Credit and has requested IDA to consider making a second line of credit
available to it . Implementation of the technical assistance component of the
Project, including training of Somali staff and recruitment of expatriate
advisers, is progressing.
Credit No. 699:   Third Highway Project; $7 million Credit of June 1, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 24, 1978; Closing Date:
December 30, 1981.
Construction works on the Hargeisa-Borama road started in November
1978, but came to a standstill in August 1980 following an air raid in the
project area. Only 56 km. of road from Hargeisa had been completed. At the
contractor's request, the Government terminated his contract as of December
27, 1980. The Government has proposed inviting bids from other contractors
(local or foreign) operating in Somalia to complete the road. Since the road
had been completed to a point 13 km. short of a large town, Nabadid, the
Association has informed the Government that it would continue participating
in completing the road up to Nabadid, using the balance of uncommitted funds
(about US$2 million) for civil works. Depending on Government's ability to
find a suitable contractor by December 31, 1981, the closing date may have to
be extended to December 31, 1983 to allow completion of the road to Nabadid.
Credit No. 738:   Third Education Project; $8 million Credit of September 30,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 13, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983.
Tender documents for the Kisimayo School of Nursing is ready and those
for the Livestock and Forestry School are near completion. The buildings for
the Health Personnel Training Center are under construction and have reached
60% completion. Technical assistance was recruited for the manpower survey
and for the National Trade-Testing Center. The manpower survey was
completed. Nine Somalis have almost completed studies abroad in curriculum
development. The technical and accountancy sections of the Project Unit are
adequately staffed and overall progress is satisfactory.
Credit No. 821:   Technical Assistance Project; $3 million Credit of June 30,
1978; Date of Effectiveness:  August 1, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The Senior Project Advisor has been appointed and several sub-projects
have been approved by IDA.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Credit No. 822:   Mogadishu Water Supply Project; $6 million Credit of June
30, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 2, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
The Technical Operations Advisor and the Financial Advisor were
appointed in 1979, accounting consultants have completed their assignments,
and the work of tariff consultants and training consultants is underway. The
findings of the water resource investigations, which were completed late in
1979, have resulted in a change in the site of the wellfield constructed under
the project. The three main contracts have been awarded and are now
approaching completion. A cost overrun of about $7.0 million equivalent is
projected, largely due to slippage, the change in site of the wellfield and
provision for a transmission main of increased capacity.
Credit No. 838:   Fourth Port Project; $5.5 million Credit of August 23, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: June 27, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
As a result of much higher bids received for construction of the
tanker terminal than appraisal estimate, the Government requested, and the
Association has agreed in March 1981, that the project be revised. One new
berth and additional general cargo capacity at Berth No. 3 result from the
revised project as compared with one tanker berth that was to be provided
under the initial project. The Closing Date has been extended from June 30,
1981 to December 31, 1983.
Credit No. 905:   Agricultural Extension and Farm Management Training Project;
$10.5 million Credit of May 10, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
August 31, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Although Project start-up was delayed by about one year due to a delay
in credit effectiveness, it is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit No. 906:   Central Rangelands Development Project; $8 million Credit of
May 10, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: June 30, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986.
A delay in credit effectiveness produced a proportionate delay in
Project start-up, but the Project is now proceeding satisfactorily. The
resource inventory of the central rangelands was recently broadened to include
the Northwest region.



- 29 -
Page 6 of 6
Credit No. 972:   Bay Region Agricultural Development Project; $12 million
Credit of December 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
September 12, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987.
Though delayed by a few months by a delay in credit effectiveness,
Project start-up is now proceeding satisfactorily. Continued satisfactory
progress will depend on Project management's ability to secure the cooperation
of other Government entities operating in the Bay Region.
Credit No. 1043: Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project; $6 million Credit
of November 7, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The Project will support the Government's efforts to develop a
domestic supply of hydrocarbons and improve its planning of the energy
sector. Exploration consultants have been appointed, and started their work
in the field in June 1981. A promotion report would be issued by March/April
1982. The Government should be in a position to offer exploration blocks by
early June 1982. The technical, legal and energy planning assistance
components of the project have progressed satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1105: Fourth Education Project; $10.2 million Credit of April 17,
1981; Date of Effectiveness: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: March 31, 1987.
The project is designed to improve the quality and efficiency of
teaching in primary and secondary schools by upgrading facilities for the
pre-service and in-service training of teachers, and to provide more equitable
opportunities for secondary education in rural areas; also, the project is
helping to alleviate the shortage of skilled personnel. Local staff for the
Project Implementation Unit are in post and recruitment of experts under the
technical assistance component is underway. Difficulties in timely obtaining
building materials and equipment may be a delaying factor in project
implementation.



30 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
SOMALIA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I. Timetables of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:    Two years
(b)  Preparation:                        Mogadishu Water Agency
(MWA) with assistance of
consultants
(c)  Initial Discussion with IDA:        Mid-1977
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                  June/July 1980
(e)  Completion of negotiations:         March 1982
(f)  Planned date of Effectiveness:    August 1982
Section II.   Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III.  Special Conditions
Special conditions for effectiveness:
(i)  Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (para. 52);
(ii) Fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the Arab Fund Loan Agreement and the EDF Grant Agreement
(para. 51); and
(iii)  Completion of the study of MWA's tariff structure (para. 58).
Other Special Conditions include:
(a)  MWA will implement the commercial accounting system designed
under the first project by December 31, 1982 (para. 56);
(b)  Before taking any action to modify the level or structure of
MWA's tariff, both the recommendation of the tariff study and
the Association's comments would be taken into account by the
Government and MWA (para. 58);
(c)  MWA will maintain its tariffs at levels sufficient to provide
an annual rate of return on average revalued net fixed assets
of not less than 2 percent in 1983 and 1984, 3 percent in 1985
and 1986, and 4 percent thereafter (para. 58);



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) MWA will not incure debt, without the approval of the
Association, unless future debt service, including that of
proposed borrowings, is covered at least 1.4 times by internal
cash generation, and MWA will not incur annual capital
expenditures, other than for the proposed project in excess of
US$250,000 equivalent without a financing plan agreed with the
Association (para. 58); and
(e) The Government would reduce its indebtedness to MWA to a level
not exceeding 60 days annual sales by September 30, 1982 and
would not permit future indebtedness to exceed this level
(para. 59).






S O M A L I A                                     X    NovlE"iEl .~~~~~~ BR 15
SOMALIA
. MOGADISHU SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
FIRST     PROPOSED       THIRD
PROIJECT    PAOJECT      PRtOJECT
EXISTING    (STAGE 1   (STAGE 2A)  (STAGE 2W
PRODUCTION WELLFIELDS
TEST WELLS
2    TRANSMISSION MAINS          -
POWER PLANTS
TREATED WATER RESERVOIRS  11m1 11
PUMPING STATIONS                                      (
BUILT-UP AREAS
NATIONAL CAPITALS220
OCEAN        ~MAJOR ROADS
KILOMETERS  9  2     4        Bl(  RIER
TN. ,W h..     pq.d by tlB        4I
Woldx B-k  w... .1-Wy fioI  ,,
thtt -on  -  -oc - f thtI rNonf   /                                       4
th  pet tO Wh,,h it i. Itichdt    I_ 
j.dg , on th.  Sstwz of         /
t.r t~   rno, -y ,d-mtt  
-210'   \                   2      3      4                                                                                    ISHU
\/2WO                                                                                                         45*                                                              2% )



