Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3252-SO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOMALIA
SECOND MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
March 26, 1982
Energy & Water Supply Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              =   Somali Shilling (So Sh)
1 Somali Shilling          =   US$0.07943
US$1                       =   So Sh 12.59
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Imperial gallon (Ig)         =   1.2 US gallons (gal) = 4.55 liters (1)
1 cubic meter (cu m )         =   220 Ig, 264.2 US gal, or 1 kiloliter (K1)
1 Megaliter (Ml)              =   1000 cu m
1 liter per capita per day   =   lcd
1 million Imperial gallons
per day (Imgd)             =   4,546 cu m per day = 4.546 Mld = 52.6 liters
per second (lps)
1 meter                       =   3.28 feet = 39.37 inches
1 millimeter (mm)             =   0.039 inches
1 kilometer (km)       2      =   0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )       =   0.386 sq mi  = 247 acres (ac) = 100 hectares (ha)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Arab Fund           =   Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
EDF                     European Development Fund
FAO                 =   Food and Agriculture Organization
FRG                 =   Federal Republic of Germany
GIBB                =   Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners (Africa)
MMWR                =   Ministry of Mineral & Water Resources
MCC                 -   Mogadishu City Council
MWA                 =   Mogadishu Water Agency
NWC                 =   National Water Committee
SDR                 =   Special Drawing Rights
USAID               =   United States Agency for International
Development
UK                  =   United Kingdom of Great Britain
WDA                 =   Water Development Agency
WHO                 -   World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOMALIA
SECOND MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.     THE  WATER  SUPPLY AND  WASTE  DISPOSAL  SECTOR  ....                         ............     1
Country  Background  ........................................                                  1
Water Resources ...............,                                                               1
Population .            .................................................   1
Public  Health  ...........                 ...................................                1
Sector Legislation  ........................................                                   2
Sector  Organization  .......................................                                  2
Cost  Recovery  .............................................                                  4
Manpower  and  Training  .....................................                                 4
Service  Levels  ............................................                                  5
Sector  Objectives  .........................................                                  5
Sector  Development  ........................................                                  5
Possible Constraints .
Previous  Bank  Group  Projects  ..............................                                7
II.     POPULATION,  SECTOR  SERVICES  AND  DEMAND  IN  PROJECT  AREA  ....                             8
Location  and  Regional  Development  Prospects  ....                         ...........      8
Sector  Agencies  ...........................................                                  8
Existing  Water  Supply  and  Waste  Disposal  Facilities  ....                       ...      8
Population  Served  and  Standards  of  Service  ....                        ............      9
Population  Projections  and  Demand  for  Service  ....                        .........    10
III.      THE  PROJECT  ...............................................                                 12
Genesis          .........................             ..........................             12
Objectives            .......................            .........................           13
Technical  Alternatives  and  Service  Standards  ....                          ..........    13
Description  of  Project  Components  ..........                  ..       .............      13
Cost  Estimates  ........ .............                      .......................         14
Project  Financing  ....... .............                      .....................          16
Implementation  ........ .............                       .......................          17
Land  Acquisition  ....... .............                      ......................          18
Procurement             .......................            ........................           18
Disbursements  ..............................................                                 19
Water  Resource  Aspects  ...............                 ..       ...................        19
Environmental  and  Health  Aspects  ..........                  ..       ..............    20
Project  and  Evaluation  Criteria  ........ ..                        .................     20
This report was prepared by Messrs. E. Greenwood, E. LaBahn and G. Steinke
and is based upon information obtained during a mission to Somalia in June
and July 1980.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
IV.      THE  BORROWER  AND  THE  IMPLEMENTATION  AGENCY  ................                                       20
Organization           ..........          .        .............................                      20
Management  and  Personnel   ......... .. .   .................................*..                     21
Scope  of  MWA's  Activities   . ................................                                      22
Accounting  Practices  and  Procedures   ......                             .................          22
Billing  and  Collection  so... ...              ...*.o .. ..o .......**. .*   ...*                     23
Audit ......................................................  23
Manpower  Development  and  Training   .........................                                       24
V.      FINANCIAL  ANALYSIS  .........                       ...............................                    24
Past  History  and  Present  Financial  Position  ...............                                      24
Tariffs .           ...................................................                                25
Proposed  Financing   .... ....................................                                        26
Future  Performance   ... ......... .   ...... .............................                           28
VI.       ECONOMIC  AND  SOCIAL  ANALYSIS   ..............................                                       28
Project  Benefits   ....................................                                               28
Least  Cost  Solution  to......     so.....                   so.......o....o... a..................   29
Rate  of  Return  and  Pricing  Considerations  .................                                      29
Impact  on  Poverty  Group  ... .....   ..........................   .........                         29
Affordability  ....................................... .                                  .....        30
Project  Merit  and  Risk  ...                   ....................................                  30
VII.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .........   31



- iii -
LIST OF ANNEXES
1   -   Mogadishu Water Demands
2   -   Description of Physical Elements of Proposed Project
3   -   Project Cost Estimates
4   -   Project Implementation Schedule
5   -   Schedule of Disbursements from Credit
6   -   Water Resources of Mogadishu Area
7   -   Project Monitoring Guidelines
8   -   Organization Chart of Mogadishu Water Agency
9   -   Cash Flow Projections
10   -   Income Statement Projections
11   -   Balance Sheet Projections
12   -   Notes to Financial Statements
13   -   Average Incremental Costs and Internal Financial Rate of Return
14   -   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Maps
Second Mogadishu Water Supply Project
IBRD 15171 - Hydrogeology of Southern Somalia
IBRD 15172 - Water Supply Facilities






SOMALIA
SECOND MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. THE WATER SUPPLY AND WASTE DISPOSAL SECTOR
Country Background
1.01      Somalia, with a land area of 637,700 sq km, is situated in the Horn
of Africa, bordered on the north by the Gulf of Aden and the Arabian Peninsula,
on the east by the Indian Ocean, and on the west and southwest by Ethiopia
and Kenya. The northern and some of the eastern areas are mountainous, but
Somalia is largely plateau land sloping easterly from the Ethiopian highlands
to the Indian Ocean, with a broad coastal plain to the south.
1.02      Central and northern Somalia are arid and the southern part of
the country, between the two perennial rivers, the Juba and Shebelli, is semi-
arid, with rainfall ranging from 50 mm to 600 mm annually. Annual rainfall is
irregular and drought has been widespread over the last decade.  The rainy
seasons are from April to June, and from September to November. The economy
of the country is predominantly agricultural. With a per capita income of
about US$185, Somalia is one of the least developed countries in Africa.
Water Resources
1.03      Water resources in Somalia are unevenly distributed and scanty.
The Juba and Shebelli rivers rise in Ethiopia and cross southern Somalia.
Although generally limited in quantity and quality, groundwater is Somalia's
principal source of water supply. In the Juba and Shebelli river basins,
groundwater and surface water supplies are used. Fair records of surface
water exist, but records of groundwater resources are deficient.
Population
1.04      The population of Somalia was estimated in mid-1976 at 3.8 million,
increasing at a rate of 2.3% per year. Urban population was estimated at 1.1
mi:Llion and has been growing at about 5% annually, whereas the rural popula-
tion has been growing at a rate of about 1.2% per year. Mogadishu, with an
estimated 584,000 inhabitants (1980), or about 45% of the urban population, is
the country's capital and largest city and is growing at about 6.5% per year,
whereas the rate of growth of other urban areas is estimated to be less than
4% per year. Drought and the border dispute with Ethiopia have caused a very
large influx of refugees, many of whom have settled in Mogadishu.
Public Health
1.05      Morbidity and mortality due to common enteric and parasitic diseases
are known to be exceptionally high throughout the country, although documen-
tation is extremely poor. Tuberculosis, malaria, diarrheas, dysenteries
and parasitic infections directly attributable to environmental deficiencies
are the more commonly observed of the important communicable diseases. Rural



-2-
areas, small urban centers and fringe areas of the larger towns are par-
ticularly vulnerable to these diseases, because they are often isolated and
lack convenient medical facilities and the basic needs of safe water and
sanitation. However, basic health services are improving and centers for
treating communicable diseases are being established at the district level.
Six WHO projects, two UNICEF projects, and two UNDP projects totalling about
US$3.3 million are underway to further strengthen health services, to eradicate
communicable disease, and to improve environmental health. These have been
supplemented by a US$15.2 million USAID-financed Rural Health Delivery project
for the period 1980-85.
Sector Legislation
1.06     Little sector legislation exists.  There is no agreement between
Ethiopia and Somalia on the sharing of Juba and Shebelli waters, nor is there
specific legislation in Somalia governing water ownership and rights of use.
Although some unsuccessful attempts have been made to enact a water law, at
present the main items of legislation associated with the water sector are:
(a) a decree of April 20, 1963 providing for more effective use of cultivat-
able lands and irrigation waters; (b) Law No. 26 of 1971 establishing the
Water Development Agency; and (c) Decree No. 18 of April 6, 1978 concerning
the "Establishment of Mogadishu Water Agency". A Presidential Decree in 1978
extended MWA's jurisdiction to include sewerage and drainage (para. 2.02).
Although there is need for a national water plan, the proposed project is not
affected by the lack of one. However, in the mid-1980s when water resources
will be more fully utilized than at present, a water resources plan will
assume greater importance (para. 3.27 and Annex 6).
Sector Organization
1.07      Although six different ministries, several autonomous agencies and
numerous organizations of the central Government are active in the sector, no
one organization is in charge of overall planning and programming of community
water supplies and waste disposal. At the central Government level, however,
three organizations.- the National Water Committee (NWC), the Ministry of
Mineral & Water Resources (MMWR), and, potentially the most important, the
Water Development Agency (WDA) - have key roles in water development. 1/ The
Ministry of Health (MOH), municipal water utilities and central Government
bodies are responsible for activities in addition to water supply.
1.08      The NWC (formerly known as the Water Resources Development Committee)
is a national advisory group consisting of representatives of the Ministry of
Planning and other ministries and organizations active in the sector. Its
responsibilities include advising sector organizations, principally WDA and
the municipal water utilities, in project selection and budget preparation.
1/   The MMWR and WDA are mainly concerned with groundwater while surface
water development is under the jurisdiction of the Department of Land
and Water Resources of the Ministry of Agriculture.



The NWC was created as a coordinating body with respect to all water resource
projects and, theoretically, helps to shape sector policies. However, in
practice, they have usually only met in response to water supply crises.
1.09      MMWR, through its Hydrogeology Department which was established in
1978, is responsible for research and hydrogeological studies, the collection
and assessment of hydrometeorological data, the design and implementation
of groundwater exploration projects, and advising on water legislation.
Shortage of staff has hampered its support from UNDP and reduced its effec-
tiveness. However, improvement is expected in the longer term through train-
ing included in UNDP and USAID technical assistance. WDA is one of four
autonomous agencies under the MMWR, the other three being the Mogadishu Water
Agency (MWA), and the Hargeisa and Kismayu water utilities. WDA was established
in 1971 and is empowered to assist rural and urban communities through seven
regional offices and a headquarters office located in Mogadishu. Shortage of
staff has limited its activities to minor construction. Design and construc-
tion of piped water supply systems, financed through bilateral assistance,
generally are carried out by foreign consultants and contractors. Under the
first Mogadishu Water Supply Project (Credit 822-SO) WDA recently carried out
test drilling and, as part of a joint venture, also is participating in a
contract for construction of the project's production wells. A water supply
extension program for ten principal towns financed by the Federal Republic of
Germany (FRG) is at-an early stage of development. 1/
1.10      WDA is headed by a General Manager appointed by the President on
the recommendation of the Minister of Mineral & Water Resources. Four major
but extremely understaffed departments exist: drilling, engineering, admin-
istration and hydrogeology. WDA is partially funded through Government
budgets and partially through revenue-producing activities such as construc-
tion for other ministries. Various development agencies are supporting WDA.
The German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) is supplying training and
technical assistance, and the United States Agency for International Devel-
opment (USAID), under a grant to MMWR for development of national water
resources, will provide WDA with commodity aid and the drilling required
in several ongoing Bank Group-financed agricultural projects.
1.11      MOH's responsibility in the sector has been limited mainly to
exercising control and surveillance over water quality and advising urban and
rural communities on environmental sanitation. Mogadishu-s Municipal City
Council has a Health Department nominally responsible for health education,
environmental sanitation, port and airport sanitation, communicable disease
control and training. Although MOH is attempting to assist in improving water
1/   Afgoi, Balad, Buroa, Dusa Mareb, Erigavo, Galcayo, Gardo, Garoe, Jowhar,
and Merca.



-4-
supply and sanitation in rural areas each of which has a hygiene office, their
efforts remain primary health care and communicable disease control 1/.
1.12      Other organizations are also active in the sector.  The Ministry
of Agriculture, through its Department of Land & Water Resources, Settlement
Agency and the Banana Board, implements irrigation schemes using surface water
and/or groundwater. The Ministry of Livestock, through the Livestock Devel-
opment Agency and the National Rangeland Agency, is also committed to well-
drilling programs. The Ministry of Industry is involved in water development
to meet irrigation water needs on its sugar plantations and to meet process
water and potable water needs at various plant sites. Local government bodies
are responsible for sanitation and solid waste disposal.
Cost Recovery
1.13      No national water tariff policy exists.  Tariffs are levied in both
urban and rural areas although they normally do not reflect the full costs of
providing service. In urban areas, water tariffs are determined by the
individual water utilities, subject to confirmation by the Government. In
rural areas, fees charged for potable water vary from region to region and
according to the nature of the source of supply. A flat rate tariff is used
for water for human consumption, whereas fees for water for animals are
normally levied per watering and vary according to the type of animal. For
irrigation water, no direct charges are levied and cost recovery is derived
solely from land taxes. This has made for inefficient use of land and water
which, in the Shebelli valley, has caused a decline in agricultural productivity.
Manpower and Training
1.14      A severe shortage of technically-trained manpower, which derives
partly from Somalia's generally low education participation rates, exists in
all sectors and at all levels. The largest single factor, however, is the
emigration of skilled manpower (including secondary teachers) to neighboring
oil-exporting states. Other factors are the extremely low level of remunera-
tion throughout the public sector (the largest single employer) and the
inability to attract sufficient numbers of students to technical and vocational
schools. Industrial training is provided in ten technical schools and about
six vocational training institutions, which in 1978/79 had a combined enroll-
ment of about 3,500 students. Relatively little change has occurred since
that time.
1.15      Despite the establishment of a National Commission for Technical and
Vocational Training, there is a lack of overall coordination of the various
technical and vocational institutes operated by several different ministries.
This lack of coordination, however, is being addressed in the Fourth Education
Project (Credit 1105-SO).
1/   Only US$179,000 (less than l%) of a total of US$18.45 million scheduled
as assistance to the health sector by the UN agencies (1978-81) and
by USAID (1980-85) was slated for water supply and sanitation.



-5-
1.16      Problems also exist in post-secondary education.  The National
University in Mogadishu will not produce enough qualified graduates, particu-
larly in civil and mechanical engineering, to meet Somalia's needs. In part,
this is due to the low number of students who qualify for entrance into the
Sc:hool of Engineering. In 1979/80, there was a failure rate of 58% in Grade
XII mathematics and science examinations.
1.17      The manpower situation in Somalia's water supply and waste disposal
sector follows the overall pattern of all sector organizations in suffering
from shortages of technically-trained manpower.   An on-the-job training com-
ponent of a USAID-financed Mogadishu water supply project in the early 1970s
was relatively ineffective due to the inability to retain trained staff and
the lack of a self-sustaining training element. A training component in the
first Mogadishu Water Supply Project is intended to address these needs in two
stages, the first being an overall assessment of sector training needs and the
design of a training program for MWA, the second, implementation of MWA's
training program (para. 4.16). The FRG-financed, GTZ-administered project to
strengthen WDA (para. 1.10), which presently is underway, has a substantial
training component which includes teacher training. Attracting sufficient
qualified candidates for training has been difficult.  The training com-
ponent of the first project is being closely coordinated with the GTZ project.
The well drilling component of the USAID project also would strengthen WDA
through training of WDA staff (para. 1.25).
Service Levels
1.18      Approximately 20% of the rural population and 58% of the urban
population (represented by the cities of Berbera, Burao, Hargeisa, Kisimayu,
Merca and Mogadishu) had reasonable access to safe water in 1976. It is
probable that, due to the slow pace of water system extensions and recent
in-migration, this percentage has declined. There is no public sewerage
in Somalia and sanitation facilities consist of individual disposal systems
(septic tanks and pit latrines) serving an estimated 35% of the rural,
and about 77% of the urban population (1976).
Sector Objectives
1.19      The Government's objectives for the sector are now being developed
through a cooperative program administered by WHO/Geneva and financed by GTZ.
This program, which was initiated in 1979 at Government's request, would
provide preparatory assistance and formulate a work program that would
facilitate Somalia's meeting sector objectives corresponding to the recom-
mendations adopted for the International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation
Decade (1980-89) at the 1978 UN Water Conference in Mar del Plata. The
program also would provide the means by which improved sector coordination of
projects could be achieved and would provide the basis for preparing sector
proposals relative to the next Five Year Development Plan (1982-86).
Sector Development
1.20      In the early 1970s USAID provided technical assistance and finance
for construction of water supply systems for the cities of Kismayu and Mogadishu.
The People's Republic of China provided similar assistance in the mid and late-
1970s for the construction of water supply systems in Hargeisa and Baidoa.



-6-
1.21      The Five Year Development Program for 1974-78 allocated So Sh 344
million for water supply out of a total planned public investment program of
about So Sh 7.0 billion. Sector projects included were for water supply only
and, with the exception of the Mogadishu water supply, were administered by
WDA. About 31% of planned investment was for urban water supply projects 1/
(mainly Mogadishu, Berbera and Burao), 49% was for rural water supply compo-
nents 2/ (boreholes, shallow wells and basins), while the balance of 20% was
for equipment, supplies and research. Due to Somalia's drought of 1973 to
1975, poor performance in project preparation, and financial problems accen-
tuated by the international energy crisis, planned expenditure levels were not
achieved (total expenditures during 1974-78 amounted to only So Sh. 4.3 bil-
lion while sector expenditures were So Sh 106 million). A 1976 water supply
and sewerage sector study carried out as part of the WHO/IBRD Cooperative
Program recommended that the balance of the 1974-78 FYDP be reformulated and
suggested a revised sector investment program of approximately So Sh 534
million for the period 1976-83.
1.22      Somalia's Three Year Development Plan, 1979-81, which was launched
in January 1979, was mainly a composite of projects carried over from the
1974-78 Plan, although some new projects were added. The planned expenditure,
based upon 1979 price levels, was So Sh 7.1 billion of which about So Sh 0.4
billion was for the water supply and waste disposal sector. Donor assistance
was committed for So, Sh 267 million, or about 68% of the total program cost
for the sector. The Three Year Development Plan emphasized improving urban
water supply and sanitation and gave somewhat lower priority to rural water
supply and supporting research. Because of Mogadishu's high rate of population
growth, its importance as Somalia's center of government and its conspicuous
deficiencies in water supply and sanitation, the Government places a particu-
larly high priority on sector improvements in Mogadishu. Accordingly, the
Bank's ongoing first water project (para. 1.24) is in Mogadishu, directed
mainly to the urban poor, living in low-cost and temporary houses. The
initial phase of a Mogadishu sewerage and drainage project 3/, modified from
its original scope, will serve a portion of those areas in Mogadishu which
have individual water connections.
1/   Financed mainly by the FRG and IDA.
2/   Some of this was included as water supply components of agricultural and
livestock projects.
3/   Funded by the African Development Fund, Islamic Development Bank
and the OPEC Special Fund.



-7-
Possible Constraints
1.23      The Three Year Development Plan places increased demands upon
Somalia's financial and manpower resources. Donor financing is available for
approximately 70% of planned water sector expenditures, but the large scale of
the water supply sector program and Government's other commitments means
finance may still be a problem. Moreover, without removal of the fundamental
constraints on management and staffing, which are long term problems, technical
assistance although necessary would not be fully effective.
Previous Bank Group Projects
1.24      A US$6 million Credit was made in 1978 for the first Mogadishu
Water Supply Project (Credit 822-SO) to increase the water supply capacity of
the Mogadishu Water Agency (MWA), to strengthen MWA, and to assist in the
preparation of the proposed Second Mogadishu Water Supply Project (para.
3.07). From the first project we have gained a fuller realization of the
extent of institutional weaknesses; and of the difficulties of estimating
project costs in Somalia's environment which is relatively unstable for con-
tracting civil works. Finally, we have learned to schedule project implemen-
tation more realistically. In the proposed project we are attempting to
address these difficulties by requiring NWA to appoint additional advisors,
while improved accuracy of cost estimates has been assured by basing them on
bids recently received on all major contracts to be included in the project.
1.25      Four other ongoing Bank Group projects in agricultural and livestock
development also are assisting sector development through significant water
supply components. 1/ The first of these, the Trans-Juba Livestock Project,
includes a borehole construction component being carried out by the Govern-
ment's Water Development Agency (WDA) and is substantially complete. An
important lesson learned in this project was the inability of WDA to provide
well drilling services satisfactorily without direction and close super-
vision by expatriate experts. The results of this lesson were applied in the
design of the three remaining agricultural and livestock development projects
having water supply components. These components are being planned, directed
and supervised by expatriate well drillers and advisors while training also
is being provided as a long-range benefit (para. 1.10).
1/   These projects consist of:  a) the Trans-Juba Livestock Project (Credit
462-S0, February 20, 1974); b) the Northwest Region Agricultural Develop-
ment Project (Credit 635-S0, July 7, 1976); c) the Central Rangelands
Development Project (Credit 906-SO, May 10, 1979); and d) the Bay Region
Agricultural Development Project (Credit 972-S0, December 27, 1979).



-8-
II. POPULATION, SECTOR SERVICES AND DEMAND IN PROJECT AREA
Location and Regional Development Prospects
2.01      The proposed project would benefit Mogadishu, the capital city of
Somalia, which is located on the Indian Ocean in southern Somalia. Mogadishu,
the largest urban area in Somalia, is the center of government and a principal
trade center. Although the Mogadishu municipality has jurisdiction over all
Benedir Province, which is an area substantially larger than the presently
developed urban area, an improved water supply system resulting from the
proposed project will only affect the urban area in the immediate vicinity.
Sector Agencies
2.02      Water supply and, to a lesser extent, surface drainage in Mogadishu
are provided by the Mogadishu Water Agency (MWA), an autonomous agency under
the Ministry of Mineral & Water Resources (MMWR). A few production wells also
are owned and operated by individual industries and by the military in the
Mogadishu area. Sanitation and solid waste management currently is the
responsibility of the Mogadishu City Council although, upon the completion of
the ongoing Mogadishu sewerage and drainage project (para. 1.22), the Govern-
ment intends to give MWA the responsibility for operation and maintenance of
sewerage.
Existing Water Supply and Waste Disposal Facilities
2.03      MWA's water supply system, most of which dates back to 1973 when
the USAID project was commissioned (para. 1.20), consists of about 26 active
wells, collection and supply mains, chlorination facilities, two distribution
system reservoirs, a booster station and a distribution system with about
10,000 individual water connections and 250 public taps (Map IBRD 15172).
2.04      As originally planned, the 1973 improvements were sized to meet
maximum-day demands of 31.5 Mld forecast for 1980. Due to a subsequent
reduction in the number of production wells provided at the Balad Road well-
field 1/ and the inability to achieve planned unit well yields, the wellfield
only produced a maximum of 24 Mld when commissioned. Although four wells
were recently replaced 2/, the failure of five of the original 19 wells and
declining production at the remaining wells have reduced total production
capacity from MWA's Balad Road wellfield to about 23 Mld, equal to 85% of
MWA's total production capacity of 27 Mld.
1/   The Balad Road wellfield, MWA's principal source of supply, is located
north of Mogadishu about 10 km inland from the coast.
2/   Three of the replacement wells are active.



- 9 -
2.05      The rapid expansion of Mogadishu since 1973 (from an estimated
350,000 to about 580,000 persons in 1980), has meant that less than 50% of the
presently developed area has reasonable access to the water distribution grid
and most of the population depend upon water delivery by vendors or on water
transported from public taps by other means. To supplement its production
from the Balad Road wellfield, MWA completed an emergency drilling program in
1980 resulting in the construction of 17 additional, low-capacity (average
unit capacity less than 20 cu m per hour) wells within the city, about half of
which are in service. Most of these wells serve as individual water points
for domestic water users and for livestock and are not connected to the
distribution grid. Due to poor siting, questionable construction practices
and low well capacities, these recent additions are not expected to assist in
meeting Mogadishius long-term water supply needs. To minimize possible
problems of public health, production from these emergency wells will be
discontinued when supplemental supplies of improved quality become available
from inland areas. Eight production wells, which will be connected to the
existing grid, are scheduled for construction under the first project at the
new Afgoi Road wellfield and are expected to provide about 11 Mld of additional
capacity by mid-L982.
2.06      No public sewer system exists in Mogadishu and water-borne waste
disposal is limited to only a few institutions such as hospitals and military
installations. Even in the latter instances, waste disposal is inadequate and
groundwater pollution is occurring. 1/ There are no regulations relative to
sanitation and the extent of waste disposal facilities to be provided is left
to the discretion of the householder. In practice, householders generally
have elected to use on-site, individual waste disposal systems consisting
mainly of a covered soakage pit. These units, although simple in design and
construction, are relatively expensive (average cost reportedly is about
So Sh 6,000) and difficult to maintain. This problem will be addressed by the
low-cost sanitation component under the proposed project (para. 3.09).
Population Served and Standards of Service
2.07      Very little socio-economic statistical information is available for
Mogadishu. No public health indicators relating specifically to the incidence
of water-related disease in Mogadishu are available (para. 1.05). However,
due to the size of transient populations (estimated at 70,000 to 80,000 persons
in 1980) and the lack of housing and facilities for water supply, sanitation
and solid waste disposal available to these populations, the risk of disease
is known to be high.
2.08      About 510,000 persons (or 87%) were estimated to be served by
public water supplies in Mogadishu in 1980 - about 50,000 persons (10%) of
these through individual connections and an estimated 460,000 persons (90%)
directly from public taps or from water vendors. The balance of the population
relies upon private or institutional well supplies.
1/   Pollution has occurred in Mogadishu but not at the Balad Road wellfield,
MWA's principal source.



- 10
2.09      MWA's water system is only partly metered and satisfactory records
of production and consumption are limited to the period 1974-76 when most
water meters were still operative and when water production capacity still
exceeded demand. Although most borehole supplies are individually metered,
only about half of these meters operate. Due to faulty customer meters
and an insufficient stock of replacement parts, only about 70% of MWA water
sales are metered. 1/ Because of MWA's inability to meet water demands, the
inland and southwesterly areas of the city are frequently without water and the
affected areas are growing. Many public taps are continuously dry and house-
holders in these areas have had to buy water from vendors at relatively high
prices, reaching a price level of So Sh 150 per cu m (US$45 per thousand US
gal) by late in 1981. Despite this, water quality is not monitored and only
the Balad Road supply is disinfected. Although there have been no recent
reports of ill effects caused by poor water quality, such reports were
frequent before 1973 when aquifers underlying the city were Mogadishu's sole
source of supply.
2.10      The proposed project would further supplement Mogadishu's present
sources of supply and all consumers would benefit. It would have a substan-
tial impact on the low-income group by increasing the availability of water
and improving pressure and quality. The population served is expected to
increase from 700,000 persons (in 1983) upon full utilization of the first
project to 870,000 (in 1987). Similarly, average per capita supply is expected
to increase from 41 lcd to 51 lcd during the same period. Further, it would
reduce the cost of water service to consumers without individual water connec-
tions, since they would have increased opportunities to purchase water directly
from public taps, rather than depend upon water vendors who levy higher water
charges.
2.11      Only institutions have access to sewers in Mogadishu while the
remaining population depends upon on-site waste disposal systems. The ongoing
sewerage and drainage project (para. 1.22) was designed to provide sewer
service to a portion of areas (totalling about 15 sq km) which have individual
water connections.
Population Projections and Demand for Service
2.12      The most recent census was taken in 1975 and the next full census
is scheduled for 1985. Migration of nomads from inland areas, resulting
from droughts and the Ogaden war, have made population projections for
Mogadishu even more uncertain. Although a UN-assisted census survey recently
was undertaken, the results of this survey are not yet available. For these
reasons, MWA's engineering consultants (Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners) were
unable to improve on projections of Mogadishu population which they had
previously developed in 1977 during the preparation of the first project.
These projections, based upon a natural rate of increase of 3% compounded
annually and an annual net in-migration of 20,000, are:
1/   The problem of metering was less severe in 1977 when the first project
was appraised and, consequently, system improvements mainly were limited
to increases in water supply capacity.



- 1i -
Mogadishu Population Estimates
1976      1980      1985      1990
Most Probable Population    445,000   584,000  784,000  1,015,000
Growth Rate,, %                  -         7.0      6.5        6.1
2.13      The proposed project is relatively insensitive to these forecasts,
since a lower population growth rate would only enable a slightly better
water supply service, which is in any case of a low standard (para. 2.10),
and a higher than forecast population in growth would worsen the already
poor service, requiring supplementary works to be undertaken more urgently
than presently envisaged.
2.14      Demand forecasts, which are an extension of the consultants' earlier
work, have been prepared based upon the following main categories of consump-
tion: residential; government and institutional; and commercial and indus-
trial (Annex 1). Growth of consumption is constrained by MWA's limited supply
capacity and, although the completion of the first project will help, this
problem is not expected to be resolved until the commissioning of physical
components of the proposed project now scheduled for mid-1984. In recognition
of the seriousness of the present deficiency in supply capacity, a moratorium
on new water connections is in effect which limits new private connections to
no more than 70 per year. 2/
2.15      As the consultants' forecast of future water consumption appears
high, Bank staff prepared a revised forecast on the assumption that growth in
sales for the period 1980-84 is likely to be constrained by the supply capacity
of the system. Future increases in water tariffs are unlikely to depress
consumption significantly since a large proportion of the water supplied (52%
in 1979) is used by Government and institutions. The forecast also assumes
that the ongoing sewerage and drainage project (para. 1.22) would have little
effect on water consumption. Unaccounted-for-water, the difference between
consumption and production, has been assumed to be at about 20% of production
although confirmation of this is not possible due to MWA's incomplete metering
1/   The project is designed to meet water demands projected for the year
1987.
2,' Based upon Supplemental Letter of June 30, 1978 of Credit 822-SO.



- 12 -
records. This comparatively low level of losses is acceptable in a system
of this age and size and further efforts to reduce losses significantly would
be impracticable and uneconomic. Annual demands have been projected for the
period through 1992. They appear reasonable and closely approximate similar
estimates through 1985 which were made during the appraisal of the first
project.
III. THE PROJECT
Genesis
3.01      Water supply studies for Mogadishu date back to 1963 when, with
USAID assistance, investigations to supplement inadequate local sources of
supply were begun. These and succeeding investigations carried out late in
the 1960s culminated in the construction of MWA's Balad Road wellfield and the
replacement of Mogadishu's deteriorating water distribution system in 1973.
These improvements, also financed by USAID, were designed to meet Mogadishu's
water needs through 1980 but, due to the failure of several production wells
at the Balad Road wellfield and increases in water demand, the need for fur-
ther additions soon became apparent (para. 2.04).
3.02      The Government first expressed interest in Bank Group financing of
a Mogadishu water supply project in 1975 when water demands were approaching
supply capacity. A project to increase water production capacity through the
extension of Mogadishu's Balad Road wellfield was originally envisaged but,
due to declining yield and deterioration of water quality, it was recog-
nized that effective augmentation would have to be preceded by water resource
investigations to identify the optimum locations and yields of other, more
suitable alternative sources of supply. The first project (Credit 822-SO),
which was prepared by Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners (Gibb), in the employ of
MWA, was designed as an interim project to assist in the preparation of the
proposed project through the inclusion of investigations of groundwater
resources of the Afgoi-Balad Mogadishu triangle (Maps IBRD 15171 and 15172).
These investigations were completed in November 1979. A March 1980 report by
the Institute of Hydrology (UK) summarizing the results of the investigations
and Gibb's "Stage II Final Report of Feasibility Study for Mogadishu Water
Supply Expansion" (May 1980) formed the basis of the appraisal.
3.03      The first project, which includes a modest increase in water supply
capacity, also has attempted to develop MWA through the provision of advisors
and consultants for training, and for the design and implementation of account-
ing systems and tariff studies. Although progress in this institutional
development effort has been slower than anticipated, advisor posts were filled
beginning in 1979, while the accounting consultants have completed their
assignments, and the work of tariff and training consultants is underway.
Contracts for all major water supply additions have been awarded and work on
these contracts is approaching completion. Efforts under the first project to



- 13 -
improve the organization, management and general effectiveness of MWA would be
continued and strengthened under the project (paras. 3.05, 3.07(d), 4.10, and
5.04). During the course of the first project, in addition to a fuller
realization of difficulties in the implementation of physical components of
the project (para. 1.24), a clearer perception of the length of time required,
and of the problems of effecting institutional reforms in the Somali environ-
ment, has emerged. The second project, and the Association's continued
involvement in the water sector, would provide an opportunity to overcome
these difficulties and to achieve significant institutional improvements.
3.04      Construction work under the first project is expected to be com-
pleted by mid-1982, about two years behind schedule. Slippage in project
implementation has been caused mainly by administrative delays by MWA and
by the Government. These delays, together with a change in the siting of
proposed production wells and the resulting need for additional transmission
main capacity, have caused a cost overrun of about US$7 million. Assurances
have been received from the Government that it will provide additional funds
to complete the project. In addition the Government recognizes the importance
of the proposed project to Mogadishu and has given it a high priority.
Objectives
3.05      In summary, principal objectives of the project are to:  (a) con-
tinue efforts being made under the first project to strengthen MWA as an
institution through the continuation of the employment of advisers and the
development and achievement of financial goals; (b) increase MWA's firm
production capacity by 31 Mld to about 57 Mld; (c) extend Mogadishu's existing
water distribution system; (d) develop an appropriate program for meeting
Mogadishu's future needs for sanitation; (e) assist in preparation of a future
Mogadishu water supply project; and (f) provide for its detailed engineering
design.
Technical Alternatives and Service Standards
3.06      The proposed project represents the least costly of several tech-
nical alternatives (para. 6.02). The majority of future consumers will be
resident in low-cost and temporary houses located in peripheral areas of the
city. Water service to most of these consumers would be from public taps.
Description of Project Components
3.07      The project consists mainly of distribution system extensions and
an extension of source of supply works associated with the new Afgoi Road
wellfield being developed under the first project (Annex 2 and Map IBRD
15172), the preparation of.a future water supply project, and a continuation
of institution building. Components consist of the following:
(a) Civil works including: (i) test drilling in support of water
resource investigations for a future Mogadishu water supply



- 14 
project; (ii) an extension to MWA's Afgoi Road power generating
station; (iii) an extension of source of supply works at the
Afgoi Road wellfield consisting of access roads, fencing, pro-
duction wells, observation wells and collector mains; (iv) distri-
bution system reservoirs; (v) a treated water pump station
and (vi) trunk mains, distribution mains and public taps;
(b) Mechanical and electrical equipment including: (i) a diesel-
drive electric generator set; (ii) transformers and switchgear;
(iii) power supply lines and appurtenances; (iv) pumping plant
for wells and boosters; and (v) chlorinators;
(c) Miscellaneous equipment and supplies including: i) vehicles,
ii) workshop, tools and equipment; iii) office furniture and
equipment; iv) customer meters; and v) other miscellaneous
equipment and supplies;
(d) The services of expatriate advisory staff; and
(e) Consulting services for: i) accounting assistance; ii) water
resource investigations and engineering design of a future
Mogadishu water supply project; (iii) low-cost sanitation
studies; and (iv) construction supervision of the proposed
project.
3.08      Water resource investigations included in the first project have
indicated that the sustainable yield of groundwater underlying the Afgoi-Balad-
Mogadishu triangle approximates 25 million cu m per year. Current demand
forecasts indicate that this would be sufficient to meet Mogadishu's total
water supply needs until the early 1990s at which time supplemental supplies
from new sources 1/ would be required. Unfortunately, little detailed
information is available concerning these possible supplemental supplies.
Additional water resource investigations are included in the proposed project
to optimize investment planning required for a future water supply project
(Annex 6).
3.09      A low-cost sanitation component also is included in the project in
view of Mogadishu's sanitation needs and to maximize the benefits of improved
water supply. This component would complement the ongoing Mogadishu sewerage
and drainage project (para. 1.22).
Cost Estimates
3.10      The estimated project cost exclusive of duties and taxes and interest
during construction, is So Sh 532 million (US$42.3 million). Foreign exchange
costs would amount to US$33.4 million equivalent, or 79% of total project
costs. A summary of the project cost estimates (Annex 3) follows:
1/   These new sources consist of a surface water supply from the Shebelli
River and groundwater from coastal areas located to the northeast and
southwest of the Afgoi-Balad-Mogadishu triangle.



- 15 -
Summary of Project Cost Estimates
(US$1.0 = So Sh 12.59)
So Sh (millions)            US$ (millions)          Total
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total         %
Civil Works                        48.2     207.8    256.0    3.8         16.5     20.3      49
Plant, Equipment & Supplies         5.9       47.4     53.3    0.5         3.8      4.3      10
Advisory Staff                      3.1        9.6     12.7    0.2         0.8       1.0      2
Consulting Services
Accounting                     )
Water Resource Investigations)  0.8         12.4     13.2    0.1         1.0      1.1       2
Low-Cost Sanitation Studies )
Construction Supervision          0.2        9.3      9.5    0.0        0.7       0.7       2
Design (Future Project)           0.2       15.8     16.0    0.0         1.3      1.3       3
Base Costs                       58.4     302.3    360.7    4.6        24.1      28.7      68
Contingencies
Physical                         11.8      64.8      76.6    1.0         5.1      6.1      14
Price                            41.2      53.6      94.8    3.3        4.2       7.5      18
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               111.4      420.7    532.1    8.9        33.4     42.3    100
Rounded off to millions:          111        421      532       9         33       42
3.11      The cost estimates are based on bids received from contractors
on five main contracts (three civil works contracts and two mechanical and
electrical plant contracts) late in 1981.  Although the two plant contracts
are being retendered in conformance with European Development Fund procurement
procedures, the cost estimates for these two components are based on the pre-
viously received bids which appear to be reasonable. Base costs are expressed
in January 1982 price levels. Allowances for physical contingencies have been
added for the various project components, ranging from 10% to 30% for civil
works, 15% for plant, equipment and supplies, 20% for engineering, and 10% for
advisors and accounting consultants. Annual price contingency factors (shown
below) were applied to base costs and to physical contingencies. Similar
price contingencies have been used for both civil works and equipment. The
Government has waived duties and taxes on all imported goods and services
required for the first project and a similar waiver would be provided on the
proposed project.
Price Contingencies
(%)
Period      Local        Foreign
1982        30              8.5
1983        25              7.5
1984        20              7.5
1985        15              7.5



- 16 -
3.12      Consultants  charges, which are likely to be time-based, are
tabulated below by component. Estimated base costs and average man-month
costs, including salary costs, fees, international travel, and local
subsistence cost, together with required efforts in man-months, are shown
below. All of these charges are reasonable when considered in the light of
working and living conditions in Somalia and the high level of expertise
required.
Base Cost                     Average Cost
Component                           US$ million      Man-months    US$/man-month
Engineering design                     1.27             133              9,500
Construction supervision               0.77              84              9,000
Water resource investigations          0.54              44             12,300
Low-cost sanitation studies            0.45              48              9,300
Accounting                             0.07               6             11,200.
Project Financing
3.13      Approximately 90% of the project costs, including 100% of the
foreign exchange costs, would be co-financed by IDA, the Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development (Arab Fund), and the European Development Fund
(EDF). The proposed IDA credit of SDR 13.4 million (US$15 million) would
cover about 35% of the project total costs and 40% of the foreign costs. The
IDA credit would be used to help finance civil works contracts, advisors,
technical assistance (accounting services and water resource investigations)
and engineering. Arab Fund finance of US$17.5 million equivalent would be
used to help finance the cost of civil works contracts, advisors and
engineering. IDA and the Arab Fund would jointly finance one of the civil
works contracts and foreign costs associated with advisors and supervision of
construction. EDF finance of about US$5.5 million equivalent would be
used to finance the two main plant contracts, a supply contract and low-cost
sanitation studies. Remaining finance would be provided from a Government
loan and from MWA's internal cash generation. As a condition of credit
effectiveness, all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Arab Fund
agreement and the EDF agreement must be met. The project financing plan,
expressed in millions of US$, is summarized below.
Proposed Financing Sources
MWA
Internal
Project      IDA         Arab                            Cash
Allocated to:       Costs      Credit       Fund    EDF    Government   Generation
MWA                 41.7         15.0       17.5    5.0        0.9           3.3
Government           0.6          0.0        0.0    0.5        0.1           0.0
Total Costs         42.3         15.0       17.5    5.5         1.0          3.3



-17 -
3.14      To help provide for the prompt availability of local funds for the
proposed project, it was agreed at negotiations that the Government would open
a special bank account for the Project in the name of MWA and deposit an
initial amount of So Sh 6 million by September 30, 1982 and deposit the
remainder of the So Sh 12.5 million (US$1 million) Government loan (para 3.13
and 5.07) promptly when requested.
Implementation
3.15      Detailed engineering design, which is being financed under the
first project, began in October 1980 and was substantially completed by
September 1981. Bids were received and awards of the three civil works
contracts are expected by mid-1982. The awards of the two main plant contracts
are expected to be delayed until late in 1982 following retendering according
to EDF procurement procedures. The completion of construction and the commis-
sion of plant are expected by mid-1984 (Annex 4). This is reasonable compared
with the first project in which implementation was delayed by a need for
information from the water resource investigations.
3.16      MWA would be responsible for overall administration of the proposed
project through their Project Management and Planning Unit (PMPU) which was
formed for implementation of the first project. Based upon the experience of
the first project, however, MWA will continue to require considerable support
from its consultants and expatriate advisors. MWA has retained Gibb (para.
3.02) as engineering consultants on the proposed project and this is acceptable.
Engineering services to be provided consist of the supervision of construction,
assistance in preparation of, and the detailed design and documentation for a
future water supply project. It was agreed during negotiations that MWA would
retain engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience, and terms and
conditions of employment are acceptable to the Association.
3.17      Due to their previous participation in the water resource investi-
gations under the first project, MWA plan to retain Gibb, in association with
the Institute of Hydrology (UK), to direct the water resource investiga-
tions included under the proposed project as part of the preparation for a
future project. This is acceptable. Other consultants would be retained to
assist MWA in carrying out the low-cost sanitation component to be financed by
the EDF (para. 3.13).
3.18      MWA will be responsible for maintenance and operation of the project
upon completion. Present standards of maintenance and operation by MWA are
not satisfactory and the extension of the MWA system under the first and
proposed projects will place increased demands on MWA training provided under
the first project. Increased emphasis on technical advisors under the proposed
project is designed to meet this need (para. 4.06).



- 18 -
3.19      Before completion of the proposed project, substantial progress
should be made on the preparation of a future Mogadishu water supply project
(para. 3.17). Substantial efforts also are necessary at this time by the
Government to facilitate timely completion of planning for extensions of the
MWA water system, particularly those extensions associated with the develop-
ment of the Shebelli River as a source of supply (para. 3.28).
Land Acquisition
3.20      Land will be needed by the project as sites for reservoirs, wells,
access roads, and pipeline alignments. Since most of the land concerned
already is owned by the Government, any land acquisition costs are likely to
be negligible. Land required for extension of the Afgoi Road wellfield is
either within or adjacent to a military reservation, however, and special
permission for its use would be required. It was agreed during negotiations
that the Government would promptly acquire all land and rights of way'required
under the project.
Procurement
3.21      General.  The project includes five main contracts (three civil
works and two plant) and one or more minor goods contracts totalling about
US$36.5 million including contingencies, or about 86% of total project costs,
to be financed by IDA, the Arab Fund and the EDF.
3.22      Works.  IDA and the Arab Fund would each separately finance one
civil works contract and jointly finance the remaining civil works contract.
These three contracts, for which prequalification was required, are estimated
to total about US$30.6 million, about 72% of total project costs, including
contingencies and would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group procurement guidelines.
3.23      Goods.  Power plant, pumping plant and associated equipment together
with vehicles, tools and miscellaneous equipment and supplies, totalling about
US$5.9 million equivalent including contingencies and to be financed by the
EDF, would be grouped in two main plant contracts and one or more minor supply
contracts and procured according to EDF competitive bidding procedures.
3.24      Contract Review.  Bid documents relating only to the two civil works
contracts, which have an estimated total value of about US$16.8 million and
are to be financed by IDA either wholly or jointly with the Arab Fund, would
be subject to the Association's prior review. Remaining contracts for physical
components are to be financed by the Arab Fund and the EDF and therefore would
not be subject to the Association's review.



- 19 -
Disbursements
3.25      Retroactive finance of up to US$100,000 equivalent is proposed for
payments made after March 1, 1982 to finance the initial cost of consulting
services for water resource investigations. 1/ The Credit would be disbursed
to meet selected portions of the project costs as follows: a) for civil
works: (i) 100% of total expenditures for well construction and test drilling,
and (ii) 32% of total expenditures for construction of roads, mains and other
wellfield works and the construction of reservoirs, a pump station, trunk
mains and other works in Mogadishu; (b) 40% of foreign expenditures for
advisors; (c) for consulting services: (i) 100% of foreign expenditures for
accountants, (ii) 50% of foreign expenditures for construction supervision,
and (iii) 100% of foreign expenditures for water resource investigations and
design engineering. Any undisbursed funds remaining from the Credit at the
end of the project would be cancelled. The proposed closing date for the
Credit would be December 31, 1985. This allows a period of about 18 months
after the scheduled completion of project facilities and approximately 6
months after the scheduled completion of detailed engineering for the future
Mogadishu water supply project.
3.26      A schedule of disbursements, which differs from average country-wide
and region-wide disbursement profiles, is shown in Annex 5. A disbursement
period 24 months shorter than the country-wide average has been assumed, which
is mainly due to the advanced state of procurement.
Water Resource Aspects
3.27      The findings of the water resource investigations included under the
first project indicate that substantially all of the region's groundwater is
derived from recharge from the Shebelli River during high river stages. The
investigations also concluded that: a) the sustainable yield of groundwater
bodies located within the Afgoi-Balad-Mogadishu triangle (Maps IBRD 15171 and
15172) is about 25 million cu m per year, and b) in order to maximize safe
yield, total annual production would have to be carefully regulated throughout
the basin. (As an example of this, to avoid overdraft, annual production from
MWA's existing Balad Road wellfield would have to be reduced from present
levels of about 8.4 million cu m to about 4.4 million cu m. Similarly,
production from wells in and immediately adjacent to Mogadishu should be
discontinued). Present indications are that such a production rate would be
sufficient to meet Mogadishu's average water demands through the early 1990s.
After that time, MWA would have to secure supplemental supplies directly from
the Shebelli River and/or from more distant groundwater sources.
1,/ Although these water resource investigations are required for a future
project, since their duration exceeds that of the construction works
under this project it is essential that they be started as early as
possible so that they are completed during the supervision of construc-
tion works.



- 20 -
3.28      Although uninterrupted abstractions from the Shebelli River would
not be possible due to the intermittent nature of its flow 1/ and the lack of
suitable reservoir sites that would permit provision for adequate carryover
storage, the river represents a potentially important source of supply for
conjunctive use with MWA's groundwater supplies. However, numerous problems 2/
need to be resolved before the Shebelli River can be developed as an effective
source of supply for Mogadishu (Annex 6).
Environmental and Health Aspects
3.29      The project would have a significant, though non-quantifiable,
environmental impact through improvements in public health anticipated through:
a) provision for more ready access to public water supplies to consumers
presently dependent upon water vendors or distant public taps; b) abandonment
of local, interim sources producing water of doubtful quality; and c) prepara-
tion of a future project having low-cost sanitation as a principal component.
No adverse environmental impact would result from the project.
Project and Evaluation Criteria
3.30      The progress of the project would be monitored through semi-annual
and annual reporting requirements covering: (a) physical and technical
progress; (b) cost estimates, expenditures and disbursements; (c) water
consumption; (d) management and staff development; and (e) financial opera-
tions.
3.31      Suitable monitoring indicators have been developed (Annex 7).  It was
agreed that, within one year of project completion, MWA will submit a comple-
tion report to the Association, based on an outline to be agreed with the
Association.
IV.   THE BORROWER AND THE IMPLEMENTATION AGENCY
4.01      The Borrower would be the Government of the Somali Democratic
Republic who would relend the SDR 13.4 million (US$15 million) IDA Credit to
MWA, the project implementation agency, on the terms stated in para. 5.07.
Organization
4.02      MWA was established to provide public water supplies in Mogadishu
in 1967 shortly before the signing of a loan agreement by the Government, MWA
and USAID. In 1970, together with Kismayu Water and Electric Utility,
1/   Streamflow records of the Shebelli River at Afgoi indicate that, for
three months (January through March) of a typical year, uninterrupted
absttactiotns could not be assured.
2/   Principal of these problems are the need for:  a) water rights legisla-
tion; b) the establishment of a Shebelli River development authority;
c) the registration of Shebelli water users; and d) the allocation of
water rights.



- 21 -
MWA was merged into the National Water Agency (NWA). In 1971 NWA was replaced
by the Water Development Agency (WDA) and MWA was reestablished and became
responsible for Mogadishu water supply operations. In 1978, a law was passed
which officially established MWA as an autonomous agency of the Government
subject to the general supervision of the Ministry of Mineral and Water
Resources (para. 1.06). An organization chart for MWA is shown in Annex 8.
Management and Personnel
4.03      MWA is headed by a Director General (also referred to as General
Manager) who, together with MWA's Directors, is appointed by the President on
the advice of the Minister of Mineral and Water Resources. Most other staff
are recruited through the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs. MWA's
salaries and wages are on the same scale as those of the Government civil
service, but MWA's staff receive additional professional responsibility and
accommodation allowances, which is the practice for employees of autonomous
agencies. Government ministries, with the approval of the Office of the
President, allocate key personnel to Government departments and autonomous
agencies.
4.04      MWA has four departments each headed by a Director (Annex 8).  The
departments are responsible for: (i) water supply operations and maintenance;
(ii) finance and administration (including accounting, purchasing and person-
nel); (iii) project planning and management; and (iv) sewerage and drainage.
The latter department is presently monitoring the progress of the ongoing
sewerage and drainage project but, with the exception of carrying out the
low-cost sanitation studies, it is unlikely to have any operational respon-
sibilities for some time (para. 4.09).
4.05      MWA's management performance during the implementation of the
first project has so far been weak, as evidenced by such matters as delays
in procurement and in the appointment of personnel and consultants, and
inadequate provision for the repair and replacement of water meters. Further-
more, staff morale and motivation seem low and there appears to be a lack of
disciplined effort. However, this condition appears to extend to other parts
of the Government service and it seems unlikely that there is an immediate
and completely satisfactory remedy.
4.06      In the case of MWA, the retention and appointment of advisors and
the implementation of a training program are expected to bring about improve-
ments in the longer term. During the last three years MWA has had three
General Managers. The present General Manager, formerly MWA's Director of
Finance and Admininstration, was appointed in July 1980. Under the first
project, to strengthen MWA's management capability, it was agreed that MWA
would appoint a Technical Advisor and a Financial Advisor having experience,
qualifications, duties and responsibilities acceptable to the Assocation to
support the Director of Technical Operations and the Director of Finance and
Administration in carrying out their duties. It was further agreed that the
employment of such advisors would be extended until Government and the
Association agreed that the advisors were no longer required. Following some
delays, both advisors were appointed and are helping to improve MWA's
financial and technical operations. The need for expatriate advisors to



- 22 -
support MWA continues to be important and during negotiations it was agreed
that the covenant under the first project should be extended to also include
the appointment, by December 31, 1982, of a Management Adviser to assist the
General Manager and an additional Technical Advisor to provide support in the
effective development and management of MWA's water resources and, possibly,
to provide assistance in the carrying out of low-cost sanitation studies. The
costs of these advisors are included in the project.
4.07      Under the first project, it was also agreed that the Government
would establish and maintain a Project Management and Planning Unit (PMPU) to
monitor and report on the progress of the project, to process payment certifi-
cates and disbursements for the project, and to participate in the planning,
design and supervision of construction. It was also agreed that MWA would
employ a duly qualified, experienced and competent person as the head of the
PMPU. The foregoing requirements have been met and it was agreed during
negotiations that they would be repeated for the the proposed project.
Also, to ensure the continuation of MWA's management capability during project
implementation, it was agreed during negotiations to repeat the covenant under
Credit 822-SO under which future appointments to the positions of General
Manager, Director of Technical Operations, Director of Finance and Admin-
istration and head of the PMPU will only be made after the Association has
been given a reasonable opportunity to comment on the qualifications,
experience and competence of the persons proposed to fill the positions.
It was also agreed that this covenant would be extended to cover the position
of Director of Sewerage and Drainage.
4.08      MWA's manpower is adequate in number, and has declined slightly
over the last three years. Although there is a need to improve management,
operation, maintenance and accounting skills through training, the current
number of MWA staff appears adequate to meet short-term needs (paras 4.10
and 4.16).
Scope of MWA's Activities
4.09      The Government intends that MWA would eventually take over the
operation of the sewerage and drainage project which it plans to construct
through the Ministry of Works. Project implementation has been postponed,
however, because of projected cost overruns and a possible change in project
scope is being considered (para. 1.22). To help ensure that MWA does not
extend the scope of its activities without adequate plans, it was agreed
during negotiations that the covenant under the first project whereby MWA will
not extend its activities outside water supply without informing the Associa-
tion of the managerial, staffing and financing effects and without giving the
Association a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon, would be repeated.
Accounting Practices and Procedures
4.10      MWA's financial reporting and accounting is on a cash basis.  Cash
outlays are not adequately classified between capital and operations nor are
adequate data maintained on creditor levels or inventories. Inventory records
are maintained in quantity only. The first project provided for the appointment
of accounting consultants to design and assist in implementing a commercial
accounting system, conduct staff training and identify additional staffing



- 23 -
needs. After appointment delays, the consultants started their assignment in
January 1980 and completed the accounting system design and the preparation of
an accounting manual by October 1980. After considerable difficulty in
attracting a Financial Advisor, one was eventually appointed in April 1980 and
he is expected to be able to carry out the required training and implement the
accounting system without further assistance from the accounting consultants.
However, he has been hampered in his task by MWA delays in approving the
system design proposed by the consultants, by the long delivery period for
printing forms and by staff shortages and turnovers. Nevertheless, some
progress has been made and full accounting staffing is expected shortly. MWA
have prepared a training and implementation program and it is now expected
that the system will be in operation by mid-1982. During negotiations it was
agreed that the accounting system would be implemented by December 31, 1982.
MWA may need further accounting assistance and it was therefore agreed during
negotiations that MWA will employ by December 31, 1982, or such other date
as the Association may agree, accounting consultants whose selection, qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment are acceptable to
the Association.
Billing and Collection
4.11      Meters are installed for recording and billing all water supplied
to consumers, but metering is not fully effective (para. 2.09'. Meters are
read monthly and meter readers are employed at seven district offices.  Bills
are prepared at the Head Office for sales to Government, embassies, and public
taps and at district offices for private consumer sales. All bills are
checked at the Head Office and deliveries are made by hand. Disconnections
are made if bills are unpaid within about two months of the billing date.
The accounting system for billings has worked reasonably well, but improvements
are expected when the consultants' recommendations are implemented.
4 12      Outstanding accounts have deteriorated to an unsatisfactory level
and, at the end of 1980, were equal to about 111 days annual sales compared to
about 80 days at the end of the previous year. This is mainly due to the slow
payment of Government accounts which accounted for 72% of receivables at
December 31, 1980. During negotiations, it was agreed that Government
would reduce its indebtedness to MWA to a level not exceeding 60 days annual
sales by September 30, 1982 and would not permit future indebtedness to exceed
this level.
Audit
4.13      There are no private audit firms in Somalia.  Audits of Government
departments and agencies are conducted by the Magistrate of Accounts (MOA) who
is responsible to the Presidency of the Supreme Revolutionary Council. MOA's
audit of MWA-s accounts has been largely concerned with the examination of
records relating to receipts and disbursements, with the verification of cash
and inventories, and with compliance with Government laws and regulations.
These audits are of a satisfactory standard.
4.14      Commercial audits are conducted by a special department of MOA known
as the State Autonomous Agencies' Audit Department. When MWA is able to
prepare commercial accounts, in 1982, the audit requirements will be more



- 24 -
complex and involve the expression of an opinion on the annual financial
statements. Probably only limited reliance could be placed on this part of
the audit work because of the lack of trained auditors in MOA's office.
Therefore, the reliability of commercial accounts will primari'ly depend uponi
MWA developing an effective commercial accounting system.
4.15      MOA's audit performance would be reviewed annually by Bank missions
to ensure that audits are of an acceptable standard. In the meantime, GTZ has
earmarked DM 1.2 million (US$0.65 million) to cover studies to recommend steps
for improving accounting and auditing in Somalia. It was agreed that the
covenant under the first project requiring that MWA have its accounts audited
annually by auditors acceptable to the Association would be repeated. Audited
accounts would be submitted to the Association not later than four months
after the end of MWA's fiscal year.
Manpower Development and Training
4.16      The first project includes a substantial training component, the
primary objectives of which are to strengthen MWA's operational and main-
tenance performance and to enable MWA to develop a permanent training cap-
ability. Under the first project it was agreed that, by January 31, 1979,
Government would employ training consultants to assess water supply sector
training needs and to prepare and carry out a training program for MWA. Due
to delays in appointing the consultants, they did not commence their work until
June 1981. However, a draft report on the training program was submitted in
March 1982 and a second report covering the assessment,of sector training
needs is expected shortly.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Past History and Present Financial Position
5.01      MWA's accounting records are prepared on a cash basis and are
inadequate for the determination of MWA-s financial performance and position
(para. 4.10). Although MWA's revenue growth has been constrained by limited
production capacity, available information suggests that MWA-s revenues
between FY1977 and 1980 were adequate to cover cash operating expenses and
debt service as well as finance a small amount of capital spending and inventory
additions. However, if it had been possible to measure MWA's annual rate of
return performance on revalued assets in recent years, the rate of return
would have been negative. Accumulated cash of So Sh 10.5 million (US$0.84
million) at December 31, 1980 appears more than adequate to meet current
liabilities.
5.02      MWA's fixed assets consist largely of assets constructed under the
USAID project completed in 1973 at a cost of So Sh 68.5 million and, although
records of additions since then are inadequate, they probably have not exceeded
18 % of the cost of the USAID project. MWA does not maintain fixed asset
records and part of the accounting consultants' work (para. 4.10) was to
develop procedures for establishing such records. Fixed assets have been
revalued taking into account the recent devaluation of the Somali shilling and



- 25 -
the General Index of the Mogadishu Consumer Price Index published by the
Central Statistical Department of the Ministry of National Planning and,
during negotiations, it was agreed that, for the purpose of the rate of return
covenant, fixed assets will be revalued December 31, 1981 at a replacement
cost of So Sh 371.28 million less accumulated depreciation So Sh 150.09
million. Although revaluation methods will be refined in future, the foregoing
method of establishing a value for fixed assets at December 31, 1981, espe-
c.ially in view of the large increments to assets after that date, is accept-
able. During negotiations it was agreed that future revaluations of fixed
assets would be made annually on the basis of a price index satisfactory to
the Bank and MWA which would take into account fluctuations in the replacement
value of these assets as well as fluctuations in the value of the Somali
shilling.
Tariffs
5.03      MWA's tariff for water supplies was at a uniform metered rate of
So Sh 3 (USd24) per cu m 1/ (US$0.90 per thousand US gal) and remained
unchanged since MWA commenced operations in 1973 until May 1981 when the
uniform metered rate was increased to So Sh 4.50 (USd36) per cu m. There is a
minimum water charge of So Sh 10 (US$0.40) per month and a fixed meter rental
charge of So Sh 2.50 (US$0.20)per month. About 23% of the quantity of water
sold by MWA is through public taps. The concessionaires who operate public
taps are allowed a commission of So Sh $2.25 per cu m (US$0.68 per thousand US
gal) and the net cost of water to them is So Sh 2.25 per cu m. The concession-
aires pay the costs of maintaining the public taps. Much of the water pur-
chased from public taps is distributed to consumers by vendors at prices
varying according to the distance the water is carried, but substantially
higher than the public tap price of So Sh 4.50 per cu m (para. 2.09). It is
not considered practical to impose controls over the price charged. However,
the proposed project would increase the number of public taps and, thus, the
quantity of water sold directly to consumers through public taps, which would
tend to reduce the price to these consumers.
5.04      It was recognized at the time of appraisal of the first project
that changes to the present tariff would be needed to take into account MWA's
long-term financial needs and long-term marginal water supply costs. Under
the first project, MWA was to employ consultants to complete a study by
September 30, 1979 to recommend such changes to MWA-s tariff structure and
level as were considered necessary. The study was delayed because of lack of
information about the cost of MWA's future capital spending as well as lack of
MWA staff to assist the consultants in their task. However, local consultants
were appointed in the latter part of 1981 and, with some preliminary guidance
from Bank staff, have prepared a draft report. Completion of the study would
be a condition of Credit effectiveness. The covenant under the first project
concerning the employment and timing of the consultants appointments would be
rescinded. It was agreed during negotiations that the covenant under the
1/   Some recent water rates for other countries in the Eastern Africa
Region, expressed in USJ per cu m, are: Burundi 28w; Kenya (Mombasa) 48i
and (Nairobi) 474; Lesotho 38i; Malawi (Blantyre) 55i; and Sudan 40&.



- 26 -
first project requiring that, before taking any action to modify the level or
structure of MWA's tariff, both the recommendations of the study and the
Association's comments were to be taken into account by Government and MWA
would be repeated.
5.05      To ensure that MWA earns a reasonable rate of return on its net
fixed assets, taking into account the low income level in Mogadishu, it was
agreed during negotiations that MWA would maintain its tariff at levels
sufficient to provide a minimum annual rate of return on average revalued net
fixed assets of not less than 2% in 1983 and 1984, 3% in 1985 and 1986, and 4%
thereafter. It was further agreed that, before October 1 each year, MWA should,
on the basis of its forecasts, review the adequacy of its tariffs to produce
the foregoing annual rates of return and furnish to the Association the results
of its review and promptly take such measures as may be required to meet the
rate of return requirements. This covenant would replace that under Develop-
ment Credit Agreement 822-SO, which requires that MWA will not reduce its
tariff below the current level and will maintain the tariff at a level no less
than is adequate to cover cash operating expenses and depreciation or debt
service, whichever is the larger. The following table indicates the nominal
tariff increases that would be required if adjustments were made annually to
meet the minimum rate of return requirements. The 1983 tariff increase is
largely required to meet the increases in MWA's costs caused by recent high
inflation in Somalia and the devaluation of the Somali shilling.
Average tariff per m3                    1982  1983   1984   1985
So Sh                                   4.50  8.90  11.84  15.04
US dollars                              0.36  0.71   0.94   1.19
Nominal increase, %                              96      33     27
Proposed Financing
5.06      Forecast 1982-88 cash flow projections, income statements and
balance sheets are presented in Annexes 9, 10 and 11 followed by explanatory
notes in Annex 12. It is estimated that MWA's capital requirements during the
project disbursement period 1982-85 would amount to So Sh 782.6 million
(US$62.1 million). During this period, it is expected that capital spending
to complete the first project would amount to So Sh 92.5 million (US$7.3
million), about 12% of total capital spending and additions to working capital.
Under the tentative financing plan shown below, MWA would provide 14% of its
capital requirements from internal cash generation, 41% from loans and 45%
from equity.



- 27 -
Proposed Financing Plan, 1982-1985
So Sh         US$
Requirements                              -----millions-----
Capital Expenditures
Ongoing Works                          3.18         0.25            1
First project                         92.45         7.34          12
Interest During Construction           3.66        0.29            1
Proposed Project                     523.94        41.66           67
Interest During Construction          26.79        2.12            3
Phase IIB                             81.00         6.43           10
Interest During Construction           3.24        0.26            1
Additions to Working Capital               48.36         3.80            5
Total Requirements             782.62        62.15          100
Sources
Internal Cash Generation                  172.13        13.67           22
Less:  Debt Service-a/                     61.72         4.90            8
Net Internal Cash Generation              110.41         8.77           14
Borrowings (including interest during
construction)
First Project                         21.30         1.69            3
Proposed Project b/                  228.39        18.14          29
Phase IIB                             68.04         5.40           9
Equity c/
First Project                         71.15         5.65            9
Proposed Project                     283.33        22.50          36
Total Sources                  782.62        62.15          100
a/   Excludes interest during construction.
millions of
So Sh           US$
b/   IDA Credit                                   189.00           15.00
Government                                   12.50            1.00
Interest during construction                 26.89            2.14
228.39           18.14
c/   Equity
Government                              71.15            5.65
Arab Fund                              220.50           17.50
EDF                                     62.83            5.00
354.48           28.15



- 28 -
5.07      During negotiations it was agreed that Government and MWA would
enter into a subsidiary loan agreement which would provide that Government
would relend the proceeds of the Credit to MWA together with a further amount
of SoSh 12.5 million (US$1 million) at a 10% interest rate over 20 years,
including a 3 year grace period during which interest would be capitalized.
The loan terms are those set by Government for bank loans to public enterprises.
The execution of the subsidary loan agreement would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. Arab Fund and EDF project finance would be provided by Govern-
ment to MWA as equity, as would Government finance provided to meet the cost
overrun on the first project.
5.08      Similar loan terms to the above have been assumed for unarranged
finance for a future Mogadishu (Phase 2B) water supply project, the expenditures
for which are expected to commence in 1985.
Future Performance
5.09      Based on the agreed rates of return (para 5.05) and the above
assumptions, MWA's 1982-88 financial performance would be satisfactory.
During this period, revenues would increase by about 6.4 times, water con-
sumption by 2 times, and expenses (including depreciation) by 3.4 times.
Allowances for inflation in the financial projections more than doubled the
1982 level of expenses over the same period. It is expected that MWA's
operating ratio would decline favorably, from 149% in 1982 to 79% in 1988.
5.10      To help ensure a sound financial structure, a covenant under the
first project requires that MWA will not incur debt without the approval of
the Association unless future debt service, including that of proposed
borrowings, is covered at least 1.4 times by internal cash generation and that,
until project completion, MWA will not incur annual capital expenditures,
other than for the proposed project, in excess of US$250,000 equivalent
without a financing plan agreed with the Association. It was agreed at
negotiations that this covenant will be repeated.
VI. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ANALYSIS
Project Benefits
6.01      The proposed project would meet Mogadishu's water requirements until
1987. It would resolve the city's present water supply shortages by increasing
MWA's firm production capacity about 80% (from 31 Mld to 57 Mld) and would
extend MWA's distribution grid from a gross service area of approximately 20
sq km to about 45 sq km thus making potable water more accessible to Moga-
dishu's population. The project also would continue efforts begun under
the first project to strengthen MWA by continuation and expansion of support
for MWA's advisory staff (para 3.03). The health benefits of improved water
supply facilities will not be fully effective without corresponding improvements
in sanitation and hygiene and, as the ongoing Mogadishu sewerage and drainage
project will be delayed, the project would also include a complementary



- 29 -
program of low-cost sanitation (para. 3.09). The preparation and detailed
design of a future water supply project, which will be required by about 1987,
would also be part of the project.
Least Cost Solution
6.02      Based upon available information, the proposed project represents
the least costly of the several technical alternatives considered. These
alternatives include two projects dependent upon local groundwater and a
project dependent upon a surface water supply from the Shebelli River.
Given the present status of investment planning, the need for immediate
action to remove current water supply deficiencies and financing constraints,
tlhe proposed project represents the most acceptable alternative.
Rate of Return and Pricing Considerations
6.03      A tariff increase equivalent to a 110% real increase over the
p-resent tariff level by 1985 (the initial year after commissioning of facili-
t[es under the project) will be needed to meet MWA's financial requirements
(para. 5.05).  The tariff required in 1985 (expressed at constant 1982 prices)
would be So Sh 9.40 per cu m which, based upon the cost and revenue streams
and the method and assumptions set out in Table 1 of Annex 12, would produce
an incremental financial rate of return (IFR) of about 5.6%. If the current
tariff level of So. Sh. 4.50 per cu m instead is used in calculating incre-
mental revenues for the project, the IFR would be -2.5%. This indicates that
present tariff levels are too low.
6.04      The average incremental cost (Table 2 of Annex 12) of water supply
reflecting MWA's medium-range development program through the early 1990s
(including the proposed project and a future Mogadishu water supply project)
has been estimated at So Sh 10.50 per cu m at a discount rate of 8%. For a
discount rate of 10%, the average incremental cost is estimated at So Sh 12.40
per cu m. MWA's investment planning has not been carried out in sufficient
de!tail to permit the projection of average incremental costs beyond 1990.
Impact on Poverty Group
6.05      Little recent reliable information is available concerning population
or income distribution in Mogadishu. However, based upon estimates made
subsequent to appraisal, 640,000 persons resident in areas which do not
presently have reasonable access to public water supplies, out of an estimated
Mogadishu total population of about 870,000 persons, would be provided with
water service by the project in 1987. The urban poverty group has been esti-
mated as 320,000 (37% of Mogadishu's total population in 1987), on the assump-
tion that all of the population resident in low cost houses are below the
urban poverty threshold. Substantially all of the poverty group would obtain
water deliveries through public taps and thus poverty group consumption is
projected at about 21% of total residential consumption estimated for that



- 30 -
year. 1/ The proportion of total project costs associated with provision
of service to the poverty group probably would conform to that group's share
(12%) of total consumption estimated for the design year (1987).
Affordability
6.06      Information concerning willingness to pay was recently developed
as a result of a survey of a selected group of Mogadishu water consumers
covering a broad range of family income by the tariff consultants financed
under the first Mogadishu Water Supply Project. Based upon this survey,
customers receiving delivery of water from vendors presently pay from So Sh 33
to So Sh 46 per cu m. 2/ Consumers participating in the survey also indicated
that they could afford to pay from So Sh 63 to So Sh 82 monthly by household.
A comparison of these figures to projected tariff levels indicates that
improved water service provided by the project would be affordable by all
consumers, including the members of the poverty group. A typical household
(using public taps) of six persons with a per capita consumption of 14 lcd
would be charged about So Sh 24 monthly based upon the average tariff level of
So. Sh. 9.40 per cu m required by 1985 (para. 6.03). The present tariff study
would consider the appropriateness of MWA's present flat rate tariff and the
possibility of cross subsidization of low-income consumers, most of whom are
supplied through public taps (para. 5.03).
Project Merit and Risk
6.07      The proposed project will provide Mogadishu with reliable supplies
of safe water, eliminate present water shortages, satisfy the city-s future
growth in water demand until about 1987, and provide about 640,000 persons
with improved access to the water system through the extension of MWA's
distribution grid from 20 sq km to 45 sq km. It also would assist through:
a) a survey of Mogadishu's needs for low-cost sanitation; c) strengthening of
MWA through future funding for management, financial and technical advisory
staff; and d) the preparation and engineering design of a future Mogadishu
water supply project.
6.08      The incremental financial rate of return (IFR) is estimated at about
5.6%, based upon the estimated 1985 average tariff level of So Sh 9.40 per
cu m (para. 6.03). A 20% increase in capital costs of the project would
cause the IFR to decline about 1.9%. Due to the extent of unsatisfied
water demands, a decrease in water sales from projected levels is unlikely.
1/   Poverty group consumption is estimated in 1987 at 1,510 thousand cu m
out of a total residential consumption of 7,280 thousand cu m.
2/   This represents a substantial increase from the official price of
So. Sh. 4.50 per cu m charged consumers who take delivery at the public
taps.



- 31 -
6.09      There are several risks associated with the project.  A risk of
project cost overruns due to inaccurate estimates of costs of physical compo-
nents has been reduced by basing the cost estimates on bids recently received
on all major contracts to be included in the project (para 3.11). A risk of
the inability of Somalia's National Electric Power Authority to continuously
meet power needs at MWA-s Afgoi Road wellfield also exists. Although, for
economic reasons, it is not possible to fully remove this risk, the project
reduces the magnitude of the risk through provision for an increase in MWA's
standby power generation capacity at the Afgoi Road site to 65% of required
flrm capacity.
6.10      The main project risks lie in MWA's institutional weaknesses which
could have an adverse effect on project implementation and subsequently
on the maintenance and operation of the project facilities. To minimize
these risks during implementation, advisers would be employed to provide
support for MWA's management, financial and technical operations. The
ongoing efforts under the first project would help to strengthen MWA's
effectiveness through a comprehensive training program and the establishment
of commercial accounting. Despite these risks, the project merits Bank Group
support, as without such support, the people of Mogadishu would face an even
more serious water shortage than they do at present.
VII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached that agreements under
Credit 822-SO will be extended to the project as follows:
(a) MWA will employ engineering consultants whose qualifications,
experience, and terms and conditions of employment are accept-
able to the Association (para. 3.16);
(b) The Government would promptly acquire all land and rights of
way required under the project (para. 3.20);
(c) MWA will employ a Financial Advisor and Technical Advisor
whose qualifications, experiences, and terms and conditions
of employment are acceptable to the Association (para. 4.06);
(d) MWA will maintain a Project Management and Planning Unit
(PMPU) to monitor and report on the project, and will continue
to employ a duly qualified, experienced and competent person
as head of the PMPU (para. 4.07);
(e) MWA will consult with the Association before making new appoint-
ments to the positions of Head of the Project Management and
Planning Unit, Director of Technical Operations or Director of
Finance and Administration (para. 4.07);



- 32 -
(f) Prior to extending the activities of MWA to provide services
other than water supply, the Borrower will: (i) inform the
Association of the effects such extension might reasonably
be expected to have upon MWA, and (ii) afford the Association
a reasonable opportunity to comment (para. 4.09);
(g) MWA would continue to have its financial statements audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association and would
submit its audited financial statements to the Association
within four months after the close of its fiscal year
(para. 4.15);
(h) Before taking any action to modify the level or structure of
MWA's tariff, both the recommendation of the tariff study and
the Association's comments would be taken into account by
Government and MWA (para. 5.04); and
(i) MWA will not incur debt, without the approval of the Associa-
tion, unless future debt service, including that of proposed
borrowings, is covered at least 1.4 times by internal cash
generation and that MWA will not incur annual capital expendi-
tures, other than for the proposed project in excess of US$250,000
equivalent without a financing plan agreed with the Association
(para. 5.10).
7.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached that:
(a) Government would open a special bank account for the project
with an initial deposit of So Sh 6 million by September 30, 1982
and deposit the remainder of the So Sh 12.5 million Government
project loan promptly when required (para. 3.13);
(b) MWA would submit a report to the Association on the project
within one year of project completion (para. 3.31);
(c)  MWA will employ a Management Advisor and an additional (second)
Technical Advisor by December 31, 1982, or such other date as
the Association may agree, whose selection, qualifications,
experience, and terms and conditions of employment are acceptable
to the Association (para. 4.06);
(d) MWA will consult with the Association before making new
appointments to the position of Director of Sewerage and
Drainage (para 4.07);
(e) The accounting system, designed under the first project,
would be implemented not later than December 31, 1982
(para. 4.10);



- 33 -
(f) by December 31, 1982, or such other date as the Association
may agree, MWA would employ accounting consultants whose
selection, qualification, experience and terms and conditions
of employment are acceptable to the Association (para. 4.10);
(g)  Government would reduce its indebtedness to MWA to a level
not exceeding 60 days annual sales by September 30, 1982 and
would not permit future indebtedness to exceed this level
(para. 4.12);
(h) MWA will revalue its net fixed assets as of December 31,
1981 at a replacement cost of So Sh 371.28 million less
accumulated depreciation of So Sh 150.09 million and, after
that date, MWA will annually revalue its net fixed assets
according to procedures acceptable to the Association (para.
5.02);
(i) MWA will maintain its tariff at levels sufficient to provide
an annual rate of return on average revalued net fixed assets
of not less than 2% in 1983 and 1984, 3% in 1985 and 1986,
and 4% thereafter (para. 5.05);
(j) Government would relend the proceeds of the proposed IDA
Credit to MWA together with a further loan of So Sh 12.5
million at an interest rate of 10% for 20 years with
a grace period of 3 years and interest during construction
added to the onlending during the same period (para. 5.07).
7.03      As conditions of Credit effectiveness:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Arab
Fund and EDF agreements should be fulfilled (para 3.13);
(b) the tariff study (required under the first project) should
be completed (para. 5.04); and
(c) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and MWA
should be executed (para. 5.07).
7.04      With the above agreements, the proposed project would be suitable
for an IDA Credit of SDR 13.4 million (US$15 million).



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
SOMALIA
SECOND MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Mogadishu Water Demands
Historical Demands
1.        Records of Mogadishu water demands date back only to 1973 when
the present municipal water system was completed. Due to the brevity of
record and supply constraints experienced beginning in 1977, it is difficult
to establish a long-term trend based upon historical experience. Table 1
summarizes estimates of annual consumption for the period 1974 through 1981.
Due to incomplete consumer metering, these data are somewhat conjectural,
particularly for the years 1978 through 1981.
TABLE 1: PAST GROWTH IN CONSUMPTION
(million cu m)
Calendar       Annual             Annual Increase
Year      Consumption          Amount       %
1974           3.53                 -         -
1975           4.34                0.81      23
76           5.26                0.92      21
77           5.94                0.68      13
78           5.70               (0.24)     (4)
79           5.68               (0.02)     Nil
1980           6.65                0.97      17
81           7.20                0.55       8
Composition of Demand
2.        Approximately half of the water consumed in Mogadishu is for
governmental and institutional use while residential, commercial and
industrial usage represents the balance. In 1979 private connections
provided service to about 50,000 persons (11%) of a household population
of about 490,000 but accounted for about 22% of the total consumption. As
noted in Table 2, no apparent change in composition of demand was observed
during the historical period, 1977-79. Information on composition of
demand was not available for 1980 and 1981 although characteristics were
probably similar to those of prior years.



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 2: COMPOSITION OF ANNUAL DEMAND
(million cu m)
1977           1978                1979
Consumer Category                Amount      %     Amount      %     Amount    %
Residential
Private Connections            1.32       22       1.26     22       1.23    22
Public taps                    1.35       23       1.29     23       1.33    23
Government and Institutions       3.12      52       3.00     52       2.98    52
Industry                         0.15        3       0.15      3       0.15     3
TOTAL                       5.94      100      5.70    100       5.68   100
Future Demands
3.        Demand forecasts continue to recognize three basic categories of
consumption: residential; governmental and institutional; and commercial and
industrial. Projected residential consumption is tied to population growth
but also is dependent upon household size and per capita consumption. The
latter is further related to housing type of which four basic types were
identified in the housing survey conducted by the consultants in 1977.
Estimates of 1980 per capita consumption associated with these housing types
which were prepared by the consultants, are shown in Table 3. Per capita
consumption values shown for populations served from public taps are extremely
low compared to the experience of other comparable water utilities. (Provision
for per capita consumption of at least 20 lcd is considered desirable for
meeting basic sanitation needs.) The values shown reflect supply constraints
and the relatively poor access of these populations to MWA-s water system.
Significant increase in per capita consumption of populations served from
public taps would be possible only after completion of the proposed project.
4.        Forecasts of water demands prepared by the consultants for the
medium-term future were based on the following assumptions: Governmental and
institutional water demands are expected to increase generally in accordance
with population growth. Commercial and industrial demand is small and esti-
mated to increase slowly in the near future. Demand of existing commercial
industrial development is assumed to increase at a constant rate of 11% per
year while demand by new developments would increase in proportion to popula-
tion growth. Due to production and delivery constraints, it will not be
possible to fully meet MWA's water demands until additions to capacity provided
by the first project and the proposed project are completed. (These additions
are expected to be complete by mid-1982 and mid-1984, respectively). The
consultants forecasts of future consumption and production have been adjusted



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
downward by Bank staff to reflect this. The revised forecasts are shown on
page 4 and in the Figure attached to this Annex. Page 4 also includes an
estimate of the composition of revised future consumption.
TABLE 3: ESTIMATED 1980 PER CAPITA WATER CONSUMPTION
Per Capita
Consumption
Housing Type                   Description                           (lcd)
Served through private connectons:
I         Large residences with gardens                        135
II1        Large residences without gardens                      70
Served from public taps:
II2       Large residences without gardens                      10.5
III        Low-Cost houses                                       10.5
IV        Temporary houses                                       5.5
Variation in Demand
5.        Required future design flows (in terms of water production) developed
for the proposed project based upon different peaking factors for time periods
of various duration are shown on page 5. Due to lack of historical operating
records and the difficulty of developing meaningful operating records during
an extended period of water supply deficiencies, there is some uncertainty
about the appropriateness of the factors proposed. Improved metering in
conjunction with additions to production capacity expected to be available
after 1983 will permit closer monitoring by MWA to confirm the reasonableness
of these design factors. Any modifications of peaking factors that appear
advisable as a result of this monitoring could be applied to the design of
future projects.
March 19, 1982



SOMALIA
SECOND MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Futute MWA Annual Water Requirements
(thousand cu m)
Water Consumption
Residential                                                 Total     Unaccounted-       Total
Calendar     Private       Public              Governmental/   Commercial/       Water       for-water        Water
Year     Connections      Taps    Subtotal  Institutional   Industrial   Consumption           %        Production
1982          1550          1810       3360       3770            370            7500           20            9375         -
83          1680          2110      3790        4170            440            8400           20           10500
84          2000         2260       4260        4220            520            9000           20          11250
1985          2670          2490      5160        4440            600           10200           20           12750
86          3520          2800      6320        4800            680           11800           20           14750
87          4300          2980      7280        4980            840           13100           20           16375
88          5030          3250      8280        5230            990           14500           20           18125
89          5800          3520      9320        5480           1100           15900           20           19875
1990          6670          3800     10470        5720           1210           17400           20           21750
91          7560          4110     11670        5960           1220           18850           20           23560
92          8530          4440     12970        6210           1220           20400           20           25500
March 22, 1982
b ZI
O s
0
Fh
Ln



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
SOMALIA
SECOND MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Required Production vs. Production Capacity
(cu m per day)
Required Average Daily Production During
Maximum    Maximum                 Actual or Required
Calendar                     Demand     Demand       Peak      Production Capaci g
Year           Year       Month       Week-        Hour       Total        Firm-
(tot)     (t.MSl)   (M.MS:)   (2.311)
1982         25,700      29,600      32,100      59,100       35,300      32,100
83         28,800      33,100      36,000      66,200       39,600      36,000
84         30,800      35,400      38,500      70,800       42,400      38,500
1985         34,900      40,100      43,600      80,300       48,000      43,600
86         40,400      46,500      50,500      92,900       55,600      50,500
87         40,900      51,600      56,100      94,100       61,700      56,100
88         49,700      57,100      62,100    114,300        68,300      62,100
89         54,500      62,600      68,100    125,300        74,900      68,100
1990         59,600      68,500      74,500    137,100        82,000      74,500
91         64,500      74,200      80,700    148,400        88,800      80,700
92         69,900      80,300      87,300    160,800        96,000      87,300
Notes:
a/ Also equivalent to maximum demand day.
b/ Based upon assumption that 10% of total installed capacity is held in
reserve for planned maintenance and to cover unplanned outages.
March 19, 1982



ANNEX 1
- 39 -                                             Figure
SOMALIA
SECOND MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MWA WATER DEMANDS AND PRODUCTION CAPACITY
90                I                             1              1
Demand = Estimated Consumption Plus Unaccounted for Water.
Later Additions
80                                                                                                            -4-----
>   70                                                              Future Mogadishu                    ,'
Water Supply Project
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~\
60                                                          IInstalled capacity-      7
E                                                                   - 
*0
c                                            Second Mogadishu
Water Supply Project
0.
U
o
-o
2    0  _4_ __0_
a./MogadiNshu Water
Supply Project                                  s
30                                             -Legend:                         _  _  _ _  _    _ _  _ _  _    _ _  _ _  _
-ore thn5 Average day water demand
.Maximum week water demand
20              ..  .....__
1/Note: Installed capacity shown prior to 1984 is estimated "total"
while capacity shown after 1983 is "firm"; latter reflects
limiting production from existing MWA sources to no
m'ore than 15MI per day (average tiduring maximum week
demand I'
10 I       I........* *..                               I                                               
1977  1978   1979  1980   1981   1982  1983   1984   1985  1986  1987  1988  1989   1990   1991  1992
Calendar Year
World Bank - 22169,



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
SOMALIA
SECOND MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Description of Physical Elements of Proposed Project
General Criteria
1.        Except for distribution system elements which would be designed
to meet water demands projected for the early 1990's, all water system additions
would be sized for the year 1987. Source of supply facilities, chlorination
equipment and well collector mains would be sized based upon the average demand
during a maximum-demand week while the design of distribution mains would be
based upon peak-hour demands. Distribution system storage capacity would be
provided to meet operational and emergency needs with the former assumed equal
to 0.75 and emergency storage equal to 0.21, respectively, of an average day's
demand. Further, the determination of emergency storage needs would be based
upon meeting system water demands during a 24-hour outage of MWA's largest
single transmission main.
Source of Supply Facilities
2.        The proposed facilities would consist of an extension to the Afgoi
Road wellfield presently being constructed under the first project. The
extension would consist of about 24 production wells (including 3 standby
wells) having a total firm production capacity of about 30 Mld, three observa-
tion wells, electric-drive pumping equipment at each of the production well
sites, collector mains, totalling about 8,000 m in length with diameters from
150 mm to 600 mm, a 312-kVA power generating station extension, electric power
transmission lines, transformers and switchgear, thus extending the well
field's total power supply capacity to 24,000 kVA. Disinfection with chlorine
would be provided to the water at the wellfield prior to discharge into the
Afgoi Road transmission main.
Mogadishu Distribution System Additions
3.        MWA's existing distribution system would be extended through main
extensions, totalling about 60,000 m in length in sizes ranging from 75
mm to 700 mm, the provision for additional public taps and the creation of two
additional pressure zone (approximate control elevations 95 m and 115 m,
respectively) permitting improved water service to populations in higher
elevations of the town. Additional treated water storage (about 14,000 cu m)
and booster pumping capacity would be provided at a new MWA reservoir site
located adjacent to 21st October Road while the service area would be doubled



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
(from 20 sq km to about 45 sq km). The new booster station would be equipped
with electric-drive pumps to boost from ground level storage to a new elevated
tank on the same site serving the porposed Tower Zone.
Other Additions
4.,       The project also would include water meters, vehicles and workshops,
and tools and equipment for inspection and repair. Remaining additions would
consist of miscellaneous equipment, furniture and supplies.
March 25, 1982



- 42 -                             ANNEX 3
- 42 -                   ~~~~~Page 1 ot z
SOMALIA
SECOND MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
So.Sh (thousands)            US$ (thousands)
Description                Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
A. Civil Works
1. Well Construction
(Contract No. 4)
Test drilling                    2,200    19,700  21,900    175        1,565    1,740
Production wells                 4,800    43,400  48,200    382         3,447    3,829
Wellfield observation wells)        300     2,600   2,900       23        207       230
Subtotal                      7,300    65,700  73,000    580        5,219    5,799
2. Civil & Building Works
(Contract No. 7A)
Access roads &
collector mains                  1,610    14,490  16,100    128        1,151    1,279
Ground level reservoir           4,200    37,800  42,000    334         3,002    3,336
Elevated reservoir                  770     6,930   7,700       61        551      612
Pump station                        280     2,520   2,800       22        200       222
Tower zone trunk mains              140      ,260   1 400       11        100       ill
Subtotal                      7,000    63,000  70,000    7C        5,004    5,560
3. Distribution System Additions
(Contract No. 7B)
Distribution mains &
public taps                    3,390      7,910  11,300    269         628       897
Zone 80 (milk factory)          20,340    47,460  67,800  1,616         3,770    5,386
Zone 95 (NE)                     4,750    11,070  15,820    378           879    1,257
Zone 95 (SW)                     4,070      9,490  13,560    323          754    1,077
Zone 115 (Tower)                  -           -       -         -
Miscellaneous supplies           1,350      3,170   4,520    107          252       359
Subtotal                     33,900    79,100 113,000  2,693        6,283    8,976
B. Plant, Equipment and Supplies
1. Pumping Plant & Equipment
(Contract No. 5)
Well pumping plant                 1,440     8,160   9,600    115          648       763
Wellhead piping                    1,440     8,160   9,600    114          648       762
Booster pumping plant                540     3,060   3,600       43        243      286
Chlorination equipment                40       200      240       3         16        19
Miscellaneous plant                  140        820     960      11         65        76
Subtotal                      3,600    20,400  24,000    286        1,620    1,906



-43 -                                ANNEX 3
Page 2 ot Z
So.Sh (thousands)          US$ (thousands)
Description                Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
B. Plant, Equipment & Supplies,Cont.
2. Power Plant & Electrical
Equipment (Contract No.6)
Diesel generator & switchgear  240    2,180    2,420          19       173       192
Main switchyard                   440    3,960    4,400       35       314       349
Power transmission line           350    3,170    3,520       28       252       280
Wellhead switchyards              860    7,720    8,580       68       613       681
Remote control system             310    2770    3,080        25       220       245
Subtotal                     2,200   19,800   22,000    175    1,572        1,747
3. Vehicles, Tools, Miscellaneous
Equipment & SupMlies
Water meters                       -      1,860    1,860       -       148       148
Vehicles                           -      2,780    2,780       -       221       221
Workshop tools & equipment         -        920      920       -        73        73
Miscellaneous equipment
& Supplies                         80    1,680    1,760        6      134        140
Subtotal                        80    7,240    7,320        6      576        582
C. Other Components
Advisory staff                     3,100    9,600   12,700    246         763     1,009
Consulting Services
Accounting                          60       780      840       5        62        67
Engineering
Water resource investigations
Shebelli River                    50    1,200    1,250        4       95         99
Groundwater                      200    5,360    5,560       16      426        442
Low-cost sanitation               600    5,000    5,600       48       397       445
Construction supervision          220    9,280    9,500       17       737       754
Design (stage 2B)                 150   15,820   15,970       12    1,256      1,268
Subtotal                    4,380   47,040   51,420    348    3,736         4,084
BASE COSTS                            58,460  302,280  360,740  4,643   24,010    28,653
Contingencies
Physical                           11,840   64,750   76,590    940    5,143        6,083
Price                              41,130   53,660   94,790  3,267    4,262        7,529
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  111,430  420,690  532,120  8,850   33,415    42,265
March 19, 1982



SOMALIA
SECOND MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Calendar Year         1980                       1981                               1982                                 1983                                1984                                 1985
MONTH 7J A 7J N7J]T i|;M; ji;|                                                                 44 i|;|;F MA NA .I AS O- +jD j M AM Jt                                                                S | 5
Number of Months After Project Appraisal    J1j2 3 4I          ...               i       i 2                                        31132 133 j 345135 1361713813  41 i41 142                                  565   8 11 6 0 6
Part A - Construction Phase
Second (Stage 2A) Water SupplV Project
Prequalification for Civil Contracts                              0           0
Contract No. 4-We11 Construction
Drill Observation Wells
Drill and Test Pump Production Wells
Test Drilling for Groundwater Investigations
Contract No. 5 - - Pumping Plant                                                                                          L i    v
Manufacturing, Test and Transport to Site                                                                                                                           _          _
Erect and Commission
Contract No. 6-Power Supply                                          _                                    _v
Manufacture. Test and Transport to Site                                                                                             -                               _
Erect and Commission
Contract No. 7A - Civil and Building Works                                                        L   _  
Construction                                                 _                         O        V     _                 v                   _        _        _        _     _
Contract No. 7B- Water Distribution System
Construction                                                                                                                     -   -   -   - - -
Future (Stage 2B) Water Supply Project
Prequalifiction for Civil Contracts                                                                                                                                                                                           ID
Design and Preparation of Contract Documents
Pert B - Technical Assistance
Accounting Assistance
Engineering
Water Resource investigations
Groundwater                                                                                                                                                                                      O
Shebelli River                                                                                                            -                          -        -
Low-cost Sanitation Studies                                                                                                      l                                                _                                                                          |X
Legend:
_           Planning, Design and Preparation of Bid Documents                       0       assue General Procurement Notica
-  -  -   Period for Bidding and Analysis of Bids                                    0    Issue Prequalification and Bid Documents
Construction, Execution of Activity                                      0    Report on Pnreulification of Contracto. E,al.sation of Bids, or Inestigations.
V    Open Bid.
V    Awmd Contract
Woetd Bank - 22495



- 45 -
ANNEX 5
SOMALIA
SECOND MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements from Credit
(US$ thousands)
IBRD FY                  Amount
and                  Disbursed              Cumulative Disbursements
Quarter                in Quarter             Amount         % of Total
1983
September 30, 1982           0                    0              0
December 31, 1982        1,500                1,500              10
March 31, 1983             900                2,400              16
June 30, 1983              900                3,300              22
1984
September 30, 1983         900                4,200              28
December 31, 1983        1,200                5,400              36
March 31, 1984           1,500                6,900              46
June 30, 1984            1,500                8,400              56
1985
September 30, 1984       1,500                9,900              66
December 31, 1984        1,200               11,100              74
March 31, 1985           1,200               12,300              82
June 30, 1985            1,050               13,350              89
1986
September 30, 1985         900               14,250              95
December 31, 1985          750               15,000             100
March 19, 1982



- 46 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 6
SOMALIA
SECOND MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Water Resources of Mogadishu Area
Regional Setting
1.        Southern Somalia is divided into two geological provinces,
the Coastal Province and the Inland Province. The Coastal Province, which
underlies all of the Mogadishu region, comprises quaternary and recent allu-
vial and aeolian deposits overlying Tertiary sediments (Map IBRD 15171). Within
the Mogadishu area, the Coastal Province is further subdivided into three
geomorphological regions, viz., a) the Coastal Belt, b) the Benedir Coastal
Plain, and c) the Shebelli Valley. Although each region has groundwater, the
Shebelli valley probably is the most important of these relative to water supply
since recharge from the Shebelli River serves as principal source for ground-
water in the Mogadishu area.
2.        The climate is tropical and semi-arid with a bi-moda'L rainfall
pattern influenced by monsoon winds. Rainfall, which is irregular in dis-
tribution both areally and from year to year, occurs in two seasons, the Gu
(from March to May) and the Der (from September to November). Mean annual
rainfall for the period 1953 to 1977 totalled 557 mm (22 in) at Afgoi and
487 mm (19 in) at Mogadishu. The mean daily temperature (27 C) at Afgoi) is
relatively constant throughout the year with the hottest months (March and
April) generally being only a few degrees warmer than the cooler months (July
and August).
Surface Water
3.        The Shebelli River, which is the only stream of consequence in
the region, rises in the Ethiopian highlands, drains the central Ogaden and
has a catchment area of about 300,000 sq km. However, only about a third of
the catchment (which contributes no significant flow) is in Somalia. The
monthly distribution of stream flow corresponds closely with the distinct,
two-peaked pattern of precipitation observed in the Shebelli's headwaters.
4.        For the period 1961 through 1976, the mean annual discharge at Afgoi
was 1500 million cu m, with a minimum of 975 million cu m recorded in 1973
and a maximum of 2084 million cu m in 1968. These figures are about 35%
lower than flows recorded for the same periods near the Ethiopian border and
reflect the effects of upstream diversions for irrigation, seepage and losses
from overbank flooding. Although recent developments on the Shebelli 1/ are
likely to modify the natural flow of the river, the extent of these future
chankges is not clear. However, more effec-tive utilization of Shebelli River
1/   Most important of these in Somalia are an offstream storage scheme at
Jowhar, which is about 50 km upstream of Balad, and a barrage at Balad.
Reportedly, similar developments are planned upstream in Ethiopia.



- 47 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 6
water is anticipated with the completion of these developments. The Jowhar
offstream storage scheme, in particular, would permit the diversion of a
portion of future flood flows into the reservoir thereby permitting later
releases from storage to augment natural river flows during low-flow periods.
5.        Current diversions from the Shebelli are mainly for irrigation and
approximately 35,000 ha, 1/ of a total of about 120,000 ha of irrigable
land, were estimated to be under irrigation in 1978. Assuming that irrigation
efficiencies, which are quite low averaging about 20%, were increased to 45%,
the annual irrigation water requirements of present agricultural developments
are estimated at about 760 million cu m. Based upon these water requirements,
and the assumption that no significant Shebelli flows are diverted for other
uses, it has been estimated that present irrigation developments located
downstream of Jowhar could be irrigated with only a 75% probability of satis-
fying annual consumptive use requirements. Based upon Government's plans
to expand irrigation developments on the Shebelli, annual irrigation water
requirements would increase to an estimated 1180 million cu m and these require-
ments would be likely to exceed available flows during five months of an average
year. This does not reflect future upstream developments in Ethiopia or
abstractions to meet the needs of Somalia non-agricultural water users such as
the MWA. 2/
6.        Although disagreement exists as to the extent and rate that existing
irrigated agriculture developments on the Shebelli should be expanded, 3/
there is evidence that present agricultural practices and low irrigation
efficiencies in the Shebelli valley have resulted in declining crop produc-
tion. Further, the Bank and the Government are in agreement that the rehabil-
itation of existing irrigation developments and the improvement of present
agricultural practices and irrigation efficiencies are necessary to improve
the effectiveness of land and water use on the Shebelli. Differences mainly
exist as to the priorities that should be attached to the various elements
1/   Over 80% of presently irrigated lands are located downstream of Jowhar
reservoir.
2/   The 1978 legislation establishing the Mogadishu Water Agency (MWA)
authorizes MWA to construct water treatment facilities at the Shebelli
River but does not recognize any rights associated with the diversion
or use of Shebelli waters.
3/   According to the Somalia Agricultural Sector Review (Report No. 2881a-SO
dated December 22, 1980), water shortages already exist along the Shebelli
and major expansion of irrigation schemes should be stopped until improve-
ments in agricultural practices and irrigation efficiencies permitting
water savings can be effected. The Government's view is that Shebelli
waters are not fully utilized and that irrigated agriculture could be
expanded to 85,000 ha. Several new schemes are being implemented which,
upon completion, would further increase irrigation water demands.



- 48 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 6
of programs to increase the effectiveness of land and water use.  A compre-
hensive irrigation rehabilitation program is proposed in the Bank's Agricul-
tural Review report to effect improvement in land and water use in the Juba
and Shebelli valleys. A water resource allocation component, which forms a
vital part of this program and has particular application to the Shebelli,
is described in para. 12 of this annex.
Groundwater
7.         Groundwater is the traditional source of water in the Mogadishu
area. The Mogadishu aquifer system, which consists of portions of the Coastal
Belt, the Benedir Coastal Plain and the Shebelli alluvials (para. 1, this
annex), is one of Somalia's most significant groundwater resources and, at
this stage, probably its most intensively developed. By the early 1960s, some
200 dug wells already existed in the city. Few of these, which were mainly
privately owned, are still in use, being replaced with higher-capacity bore-
holes introduced in the early 1970s as part of Mogadishu's new municipal water
system. Despite this intensive past development, until recently, little
information was available concerning Mogadishu's local groundwater resources
thus making the planning for future water supply additions somewhat risky.
Particularly lacking was information on groundwater quality and sustainable
yields. The local situation mirrors the nationwide picture in that there
has been no concerted effort to collect and maintain records of well construc-
tion and production, groundwater levels or water quality. Further, there is
no recognition of water rights nor have there been attempts to control or
regulate water production although, in order to optimize future development
of this water resource, it is recognized that regulation, as well as improved
monitoring, would be required.
Water Resource Investigations
8.        Much of the current knowledge of the surface water resources of
the Shebelli valley has resulted from basin-wide studies financed by the UNDP
that were carried out in the late 1960s and early 1970s to identify future
irrigation schemes suitable for development. Although several irrigation
projects subsequently were implemented on the Shebelli, preparation for these
projects generally was limited in scope and did not add appreciably to the basic
hydrologic knowledge of the basin. FAO currently is assisting the Government in
the upgrading of stream flow records.
9.         Initial groundwater investigations in the Mogadishu area were car-
ried out in the 1960s which resulted in the design and construction of MWA's
existing Balad Road wellfield. These investigations covered only a small
area immediately adjacent to Mogadishu and were too limited to permit future
planning of major water supply extensions included under the Mogadishu Water
Supply Project (first project) and the proposed project. In recognition of
this, more extensive water resource investigations that encompassed substan-
tially all of the Afgoi-Balad-Mogadishu triangle were included as part of the
first project. These investigations, which were completed in late 1979, are
described below.



- 49 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 6
10.       The 1979 investigations, which were directed by the Institute of
Hydrology (UK), included a surface geophysical survey and an exploratory
drilling and aquifer testing program. A total of 22 boreholes were drilled
(Map IBRD 15172) and six long-term pump tests (to determine aquifer charac-
teristics) were carried out. The results of the field investigations provided
data which, together with water level and water production information for the
years 1968 and 1979, were used to calibrate a digital model of the aquifer in
the study area (within "local area boundary" shown on Map IBRD 15171). After
calibration, the model was then used to predict groundwater level response
based upon MWA water production requirements previously projected for the
period 1976 to 2000. Principal conclusions resulting from the 1979
investigations are described below:
i)   The sustainable (safe) yield of aquifers within the Afgoi-Balad-
Mogadishu triangle (the Triangle) is proportional to long-term
recharge from the Shebelli River occurring within the Balad-Afgoi
reach of the River. Based upon average annual recharge of 40
million cu m, annual sustainable yield would approximate 25 million
cu m;
ii)   To avoid problems due to adverse water quality, future groundwater
production in the Triangle should be secured from wellfields located
10-20 km inland from the coast. Recommended wellfields would consist
of the existing Balad Road wellfield, the Afgoi Road wellfield (to
be constructed under the first project and extended under the pro-
posed project), and a wellfield to be constructed further inland
adjacent to Balad Road under a future Mogadishu (Stage 2B) water
supply project (Map IBRD 15172);
iii)   Current production from the existing Balad Road wellfield is in
excess of that wellfield-s share of basin safe yield and, as soon as
significant supplemental production capacity is secured, 1/ annual
production from MWA's existing facility should be reduced to about
4.4 million cu m (about 60% of current production);
iv)   In order to meet annual water demands in excess of about 25 million
cu m, 2/ additional sources of supply located outside the Triangle
would have to be developed. The most likely sources for these
supplemental supplies would be: a) the Shebelli River and b) other
groundwater sources located northeast and southwest of the Triangle;
and
1/   In view of the extent of excess demand, this reduction probably would
not be possible until the completion of facilities included in the
proposed project.
2/   MWA's average annual demand at source is expected to reach 25 million
cu m by about 1990.



- 50 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 6
v)   Insufficient information is available on the Shebelli
River and adjacent groundwater resources to evaluate these
supplemental sources or to plan future water supply facil-
ities that may be required to meet MWA-s future water
demands. Thus, further investigations of groundwater and the
Shebelli are required for planning and preliminary design.
Preparation of Future Mogadishu Water Supply Projects
11.       The 1979 water resource investigations indicate that, after about
1990 when MWA water demands are projected to equal the safe yield of the
Triangle's groundwater resources, supplemental supplies from the Shebelli
River and/or from other more distant groundwater sources would be required.
The following critical actions need to be taken shortly in order to plan for
these later additions to supply capacity.
12.       To develop the Shebelli River as an effective MWA source, an assess-
ment of the Shebelli valley's total water resources and an economic allocation
of these resources to present and potential future high-priority water users
needs to be made as part of a regional water plan. It would require: a) the
enactment of national water laws; 1/ b) the establishment and development of a
Shebelli River development authority (preferably under existing institutions
such as the Department of Land & Water Resources of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture); c) the registration of water users; d) the carrying out of studies to
determine current and optimum future water needs for principal irrigated
agriculture areas in the Shebelli valley; e) the identification of specific
programs for irrigation rehabilitation; f) consideration of location of user,
land and water use, and season in allocating water rights and establishing
priorities of use. Although supplies from the Shebelli probably will not be
required by Mogadishu before 1990, to avoid future delays in planning and
inefficient use of investment funds, the majority of the steps noted above
should have been accomplished by no later than mid-1984. Preferably, each
of the above-listed actions should be included or required under the proposed
project. Primarily because of problems of finance and the need to limit
project costs, however, they are being deferred until the next Bank Group
project in the agriculture sector.
13.       As noted in para. 10, additional physical planning and preliminary
design of facilities for the diversion, treatment and conveyance of Shebelli
waters to Mogadishu also would be required. Potential sites for diversion
within the Balad-Afgoi reach would be investigated. Since this work would
need to be complete by the time that the detailed engineering of the future
Magadishu water supply project is begun, it is included in the proposed project.
1/   Although the enactment of laws covering Juba River waters already is
required under the Trans-Juba Livestock Project (Cr 462-SO), it has not
been achieved.



- 51 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 6
14.       For similar reasons, additional groundwater investigations of
coastal regions northeast of Balad Road and southwest of Afgoi Road also
would be required and are included in the proposed project. These investi-
gations would assist in identifying the sites and capacities of wellfields
required for meeting MWA's post-1990 average and peak water demands in
conjunction with future supplies from the Shebelli River.
March 24, 1982



- 52 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
SOMALIA
SECOND MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Monitoring Guidelines
A. Progress in Project Implementation
Item                                      Target Dates
1.  Physical Components                     Civil Works            Plant
Issue bid documents                     September 1981      May 1982
Receive bids                            December 1981       August 1982
Evaluate bids                           February 1982       September.1982
Award contracts                         July 1982           November 1982
Begin work on site                      October 1982
Deliver equipment to site                                   September 1983
Commission facilities                   April 1984          April 1984
2.  Designs, Studies and Investigations          Target Completion Date
Water resource investigations:
Groundwater                                    August 1984
Shebelli River                                 March 1984
Low-cost sanitation studies                      March 1985
Design future (Stage 2B) project                 July 1985
B. Operational Characteristics (End of Year):
1. Sources of Supply, Number of
a) Active
b) Total
2. Number of Service Connections
a) Residential
i)   House connections
ii) Public taps
b) Commercial/Industrial
c) Governmental/Institutional



- 53 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
3. Water Production and Sales, cu m per year
a) Water produced
b) Water sold
i)   Residential
House connections
Public taps
ii) Commercial/Industrial
iii) Governmental/Institutional
iv) Total
c) Unaccounted for water
i)   Amount, cu m per year
ii) % of production
4. Customers water meters
a) Total number in place, end of year
b) Number replaced during year
c) Number repaired during year
5. Annual Energy Requirements
a) Diesel fuel purchased
i) Quantity, bbls/yr.
ii) Cost, So. Sh./year
b) Energy purchased (from ENEE)
i)   Quantity, KwH/yr
ii) Cost, So. Sh./yr
iii) Power interruptions, number and duration
C. MWA Staffing and Training
1.  Number of permanent staff (by classification)
2.  Staff Training, per year
a) Number of staff trained (by classification)
b) Training effort, man-weeks
i) In Somalia
ii) Outside Somalia



- 54 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
D. Financial Data, for financial years
1. Average tariff level, So Sh per cu m
2. Rate of return on average revalued net fixed assets
3. Debt service coverage, %
4. Operating ratio
5. Uncollected water sales, number of days
6. Debt/equity ratio
March 24, 1982



SOMALIA
SECOND MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF MOGADISHU WATER AGENCY
Ministry of Ml-ereI and
|  Water Rtesources 
Mogadishu WaVter Agency
| Comotiee           |             ......... 4General Manager  ........
.Ct ,     !c                                                                                                                                           S|                             ,               I
Directr  t                                              Direto        n       &                     Financial                                                                                                 Director utgTechnica                               DirOc .......r...  f..... .
SPntins  Draitngande                                                                                                                                                                                                    Departm
................                                        ....................................................................................                                         t....... .  ....  ............
|Project Plantng             Stetittict             Chn                   Bilin  Seto                Purchasing               Waehus                   Personnel                 G  (eneral            M|ncoc                   Wrksh|                   Construction              |Hydrologist1
and Managemsns         and                 Accountant            Superinsetndont            Superyisor                Manager                 O  fficer                  Sem ices     L      Supetintonden             Sriyerinsendent          e nd lnata le-l               r    s               
r                                  I                        I                                                                                                          tendent -t                                                e
A,~..                                  ' 'i.t-                           Mrillers ... g.,                                                         S      .t..d.                                      -d  -a.D
O ffice              CImpOrt         Distrihotin
Office   ClerI r                                                                              S                 L 
7   _                                                | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ffeservoirs|
Cl;rk l Blilig < jpe yisorDistrict Offio  Frma| 
Clerk  gilling Supestiter  Supemicorsmi
(for pubic tapsi |       for institutional            (for encvase                                                                                                                              k  ngineernin|g   Nw 
connections                                                                                                                               D roop             ConnLecons
City Wells  Storm  Woter               General            General
World Bank - 18119e



-56 -                                     ANNEX 9
SOMALIA
MOGADISHU WATER AGENCY
CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS
(thousands of Somali Shillings)
Summary
Year ended December 31            1982    1983    1984    1985  1982-85   1986    1987    1988
INTERNAL SOURCES
________________
-NET INCOME BEFORE INTEREST   -15600    8171   13697   29778   36046   30895   42556   43202
-DEPRECIATION                    19213   25112   38492   53271  136088   58475   63192   68290
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION      3613   33283   52189   83049  172134   89370  105748  111492
OPERATIONS REQUIREMENTS
-WORKING CAPITAL                    15    5864    4448    6828   17155    2615    4576    2731
-DEBT SERVICE                     5029    9403    9403   37883   61718   37883   37883   37883
TOTAL                          5044   15267   13851   44711   78873   40498   42459   40614
NET AVAILABLE
FROM OPERATIONS                -1431   18016   38338   38338   93261   48872   63289   70878
CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
-ONGOING WORKS                      706     756      831      889    3182      951    1017    1088
PHASE I                           87125    5325        0        0   92450        0        0       0
PROPOSED PROJ                     59660  268440  163170   32670  523940          0       0        0
PHASE 2 B                             0        0       0   81000   81000  423000  238000   61000
INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION       5145    8237   17074    3240   33696   23724   52536   69750
TOTAL                         152636  282758   181075  117799  734268  447675  291553  131838
BALANCE TO FINANCE               154067  264742  142737   79461  641007  398803  228264   60960
FINANCED BY:
PHASE I - IDA                     21300       0        0        0   21300        0       0        0
PROPOSED PROJ. IDA                22707  105114   73397   11696  212914          0        0       0
PROP PROJ GOVT                     8400    5671    1407         0   15478        0       0        0
PHASE II                              0        0       0   68040   68040  362124  242936  118550
-EQUITY                           95916  154337   87642   16585  354480          0       0        0
TOTAL                         148323  265122  162446   96321  672212  362124  242936  118550
SURPLUS (DEFIC IT)
OF FUNDS                        -5744      380   19709   16860   31205  -36679   14672   57590
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE               0.7     3.5      5.5      2.2     2.8      2.4     2.8      3.0
March 17, 1982



- 57 -                                 ANNEX 10
SOMALIA
MOGADISHU WATER AGENCY
INCOME STATEMENT PROJECTIONS
(thousands of Somali Shillings)
Year ended December 31            1982       1983     1984       1985    1986       1987       1988
VOL SOLD (OOOM3)                 7125      7980       8550       9690   11210    12445        13775
AVER TARIFF PER M3 (So Sh)        4.50     8.90      11.84      15.04   14.30    15 15        14.91
OPERATING REVENUES              32062    71029    101277    145741  160319   188660    205480
OPERATING EXPENSES
------------------
WAGES AND BENEFITS                8846    11058      13269      16633   18296    20126        22138
OIL AND ELECTRICITY              9234    11097       15363      19809   24597    30159        36702
FOUNT  CONCES. COMMISSION        4230      8714      12706      17501   18200    21502        22331
CHEMICALS                          351      396        486        594      693       828        981
REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE           4761     5400       6120       6948    7884       8937      10134
GENERAL                            477      531        594        657      729       810       1152
PAYMT TO MUNICIPALITY              550      550        550        550      550       550        550
DEPRECIATION                    19213    25112       38492      53271   58475    63192        68290
TOTAL                        47662    62858       87580    115963  129424   146104    162278
OPERATING INCOME               -15600      8171      13697      29778   30895    42556        43202
NET INCOME BEF INTEREST        -15600      8171      13697      29778   30895    42556        43202
INT CHARGED OPERATIONS            1209     5356       5127      27723   26903    26009        25035
NET INCOME                     -16809       2815      8570       2055    3992    16547        18167
AVERAGE RATE BASE              309383   411916    689900    986597 1031675  10543595 10740195
RATE OF' RETURN
ON REVALUED ASSETS (%)             -5         2          2          3       3         4          4
OPERATING RATIO                    149        88         86         80      81        77         79
March 17, 1982



-58-                              ANNEX 11
SOMALIA
MOGADISHU WATER AGENCY
BALANCE SHEET
(thousands of Somalia Shillings)
At December 31                     1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
ASSETS
PLANT IN OPERATION               589393  666201 1258376 1405189 1518555 1641056 1773428
LESS. DEPRECIATION               191816  239946  304832  385538  474856  576036  690409
NET PLANT                        397577  426255  953544 1019651 1043699 1065020 1083019
WORK IN PROGRESS                  61141  337818        0   84240  530964  821500  952250
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH                                 0       93   19802   36662        0   14655   72245
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE               5290   11720   16711   24047   26453   31129   33904
INVENTORIES                       7608    8186    9038   10203   11428   12799   14118
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS           12898   19999   45551   70912   37881   58583  120267
TOTAL                         471616  784072  999095 1174803 1612544 1945103 2155536
*flafl ,wSfl    nmflnX  3=sX sSflfl^  SS-z  =sSfSm-
LIABILITIES
EQUITY
CAPITAL                         263575  417912  505554  522139  522139  522139  522139
RETAINED EARNINGS               -28507  -25692  -17122  -15067  -11075    5472   23639
GRANTS                           11661   11661   11661   11661   11661   11661   11661
REVALUATION RESERVE              96256  143965  190853  276672  358244  441740  526941
TOTAL EQUITY                342985  547846  690946  795405  880969  981012 1084380
LONG TERM DEBT                   124845  231583  302111  371687  722831  953893 1059595
CURRENT LIABILITIES
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                  3499    4643    6038    7711    8727   10198   11561
OVERDRAFTS                         287       0        0        0      17        0       0
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES       3786    4643    6038    7711    8744   10198   11561
TOTAL                         471616  784072  999095 1174803 1612544 1945103 2155536
=s=====  =5=z===   ===S=== =S====== ======= =sX=c=  t=====
DEBT/DEBT & EQUITY                   27       30      30       32      45       49      49
CURRENT RATIO                       3.4      4.3     7.5      9.2     4.3      5.7    10.4
RECEIVABLES/REV x                   16       17      17       16      17       17       16
March 17 1982



- 59 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 3
SOMALIA
MOGADISHU WATER AGENCY
Notes to Financial Statements
General
1.        The financial statements are based on information supplied by MWA
and their consultants.
Income Statements
Revenues
2.        Water consumption forecasts are derived from Annex 1.  It is assumed
that 95% of this consumption would be billed and collected.
Salaries
3.        In addition to provision for increased staffing requirements, infla-
tion has been assumed as follows: 1982, 30%; 1983, 25%; 1984, 20%; 1985, 15%;
1986 onward, 10%.
Fuel Oil and Electricity, Chemicals, Repairs and Maintenance, and General
Expenses
4.        Inflation for these expenses has been assumed as follows:  1982, 8%;
1983 and thereafter, 7%. Fuel oil and chemicals are assumed to increase also
in proportion to production while repairs and maintenance and general expenses
have been assumed to increase annually by 6% and 4% respectively.
Annual Payment to Mogadishu Municipality
5.        An annual payment of So Sh 0.55 million is made to MWA in perpetuity
to compensate the Municipality for the small water supply system which MWA took
over on its inception.
Depreciation
6.        An average annual rate of 4% has been assumed.
Payables
7.        These are assumed at about 45 days cash operating expenses.



- 60 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 3
Balance Sheet
Fixed Assets
8.        Fixed assets have been revalued annually to reflect estimated
replacement costs. Assuming 70% of fixed asset values represent foreign costs
and 30% local costs, fixed assets have been revalued at the following annual
percentages:
1982     1983      1984      1985     1986    1987   1988
15       12        11         9        8        8     8
In arriving at the above, foreign and local price escalations are forecast
as follows:
Local                  30        25        20       15        10      10    10
Foreign                 8         7         7        7         7        7     7
Receivables
9.        Estimated at 2 months sales (16.5%).
Inventories
10.       Inventories are high because of lengthy procurement procedures.
They are assumed to increase in line with production.
Financing Terms
11.       First Mogadishu Water Supply Project.  Government will provide an
estimated SoSh 89.2 million finance for the estimated cost overrun in the form
of equity.
12.       The Project.  Equity finance would be provided by Government to
MWA as follows:
millions of
Source                                So Sh         US$
EDF                                 62.8         5.0
Arab Fund                          220.5        17.5
283.3       22.5



- 61 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 3
Loan finance would be provided by Government to MWA at a 10% interest
rate over 20 years, including a 3 year grace period as follows with interest
during construction being added to the principal amounts indicated below
during the construction period:
millions of
Source                                So Sh         US$
IDA                                189.0        15.0
Government                          12.5         1.0
201.5       16.0
13.       Possible Future Projects.  It has been assumed that 80% of the cost
of a future project would be met through loans on terms similar to those for
the proposed project.
USAID Loan
14.       Under the terms of a loan agreement dated January 7, 1968 between
Somalia, MWA and the U.S., MWA is to repay Government over 30 years from date
of first loan disbursements, including a 5-year grace period, by level semi-
annual installments including interest at 3.5% per annum. The final install-
ment is due January 20, 1999.
March 24, 1982



- 62 -
ANNEX 13
SOMALIA
SECOND MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Incremental Financial Rate of Return and Average Incremental Costs
1.        The following assumptions were used in calculating incremental
financial rate of return (IFR) and average incremental costs (AIC):
(a) Constant prices (at 1982 levels) were used throughout;
(b) Annual costs include capital costs (reflecting physical
contingencies but not price contingencies) and recurring
costs exclusive of duties and taxes;
(c) Capital costs assumed in the calculation of IFR and AIC exclude
consideration of the low-cost sanitation component. However, AIC
reflects costs of the water resource investigations and design
engineering for a future project whereas IRA does not;
(d) Shadow pricing was not used;
(e) Annual operational expense was calculated on the basis
of the following average unit costs applied per cubic
meter of incremental production:
Pumping costs                     So Sh 0.48
Cost of chemicals                       0.10
Other operating costs                   0.12
(f)  Other details relative to the analysis of IFR and AIC
are shown below and on attached tables 1 and 2.
Incremental Financial Rate of Return
2.        Annual incremental revenue was based on an average revenue of
So Sh 9.40 per cu m of annual incremental sales estimated as required for
the year 1985.
3.        The effective service life of the proposed project's physical plant
was estimated at 25 years beginning with the year 1984.
Average Incremental Cost
4.        The effective service life of the physical plant of the proposed
project and a future water supply project was estimated at 26 years with the
beginning of the proposed project, 1984, and the beginning year of the future
project, 1987.
March 18, 1982



- 63 -
ANNEX 13
Table 1
SOMALIA
SECOND MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Calculation of Incremental Financial Rate of Return for Project a/
(So.Sh. 000's) -
Annual        Annual          Annual        Annual       Annual         Annual        Annual      Net
Calendar    Proposed   Maintenanse  Incremental    Operational  M & 0           Incremental  Incremental  Incremental  Cash
Year        Project    Expense c    Production d/  Expense -e/   Expense         Costf/       Consumptionr/ Revenue h/  Flow
(cu m 000's)                                           (cu m 000's)
1982          57,880         0              0                0           0        57,880            0             0    ( 57,880)
83        222,490          0              0               0           0        222,490            0             0    (222,490)
84        106,190        1,933           625             438       2,371       108,561           500          4,700  (103,861)
1985          16,716       4,033         2,750           1,925       5,958        22,674         2,200         20,680  (  1,994)
86                       4,033         4,750           3,325       7,358         7,358         3,800         35,720    28,362
1987-2008                  4,033         5,600           3,920       7,953          7,953        4,480         42,112    34,159
a/ Calculations do not reflect shadow pricing;
b/ Except as indicated;
c/ Annual cost assumed to be equal to 1% of cumulative capital costs;
d/  Portion of total annual production (up to maximum of 15.6 million cu m) attributed to proposed (Stage 2A) project
less effective long-term annual production capacity of MWA water supply plant (10.0 million cu m) after full
utilization of first project;
e/ Annual operational expense based upon average cost of So. Sh. 0.70 per cu m of production;
f/ Sum of annual capital and recurring costs;
g/ Portion of total annual consumption met by proposed project (total annual sales of up to maximum of 12.48 million
cu m less 8.0 million cu m of total sales met after full utilization of first project); and
h/ Based on average revenue (in real terms) of So. Sh 9.40 per cu m.
March 18, 1982



- 64 -
ANNEX 13
Table 2
SOMALIA
SECOND MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Calculation-of MWA's Average Incremental Costs!/for Medium-Range Investment Period
(So.Sh OO'a)b./
Capital Costs
Total     Annual        Annual          Annual        Annual   Annual        Annual
Calendar    Proposed      Future      Capital    Maintenan7e  IncrementaJ,  Operational  M & 0    Incremental  Incremental
Year      Project      Project       Costs      Expense -    Productiona'  Expense e    Expense    Cost f/    Consumption;I
(cu m 000's)                                         (cu m 000's)
1982         57,880                    57,880        0                0             0            0        57,880           0
83        227,830                   227,830        0               0             0            0        227,830          0
84        121,740                   121,740      2,037            625           438         2,475      124,215         500
1985          23,160      61,780       84,940      4,924          2,750         1,925         6,849       91,789       2,200
86                     270,480      270,480      7,629          4,750         3,325        10,954      281,434       3,800
87                     143,430      143,430      9,063          6,375         4,463        13,526      156,956       5,100
88                      34,850       34,850      9,412          8,125         5,688        15,100       49,950       6,500
89                                               9,412          9,875         6,913        16,325       16,325       7,900
1990                                               9,412         11,750         8,225        17,637       17,637       9,400
91                                               9,412         13,560         9,492        18,904       18,904      10,850
1992-2011                                          9,412         15,200        10,640        20,052       20,052      12,160
a/  Costs do not reflect shadow pricing;
b/  Except as indicated;
c/  Annual cost assumed to be equal to 1% of cumulative total capital costs;
[/  Portion of total annual production (up to maximum of 25.2 million cu m) attributed to proposed project and
future project less effective long-term annual production capacity of MWA water supply plant (10.0 million'cu m)
after full utilization of first project;
e/  Annual operational expense based upon average cost of So.Sh. 0.70 per cu m of production;
f/  Sum of annual capital and recurring costs; and
j/  Portion of total annual consumption met by proposed project and future project (total annual sales of up to
20.6 million cu m less 8.0 million cu m of total sales met after full utilization of first project).
March 18, 1982



-65 -                       ANNEX 14
Page I of 2
SOMALIA
SECOND MOGADISHU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.   WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Al.  Extract concerning Somalia from:  "Water Law in Moslem Countries,"
FAO (Rome), D.A. Caponera, 1973, 149-161 pp.;
A2.  Legislation establishing Mogadishu Water Agency, 1978, 10 pp.;
A3.  "A Conceptual Review of Somalia's Groundwater Resources," FAO
(Rome), James H. Johnson Consultant Hydrologist, 1978, 33 pp.;
A4.  "Environmental Engineering Survey (of 24 Somali Towns)," draft
report, Messrs. A.M. Weheliye (Ministry of Health) and G.S.
Timar (WHO Sanitary Engineer), 1978, 70 pp.;
A5.  "Community Water Supply and Sanitation:  Rapid Assessment of
Current and Projected Sector Development." Government of
Somalia/WHO, July 1978, 12 pp.;
A6.  "International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade -
GTZ/WHO Cooperative Action Preparatory Assistance,'Report of
Somalia Preliminary Mission, H.W. Bahr, WHO Regional Advisor,
May 1979, 1 vol.;
A7.  "Somalia Comprehensive Groundwater Project:  Project Paper
649-0104," USAID, September 1979, 1 vol.;
A8.  "Travel Report" concerning reconnaissance mission to Somalia
to prepare for workshop under GTZ/WHO Cooperative Action
Preparatory Assistance, G. Schultzberg of WHO/EHE/GWS,
August 1980, 1 vol.
B . PROJECT
Bl.  "Mogadishu Water Supply Investigation, Report on Electrical
Resistivity Survey," Electronic & Geophysical Services Ltd.,
April 1978, 2 vol.;
B2.  "Mogadishu Water Supply Investigation, Supplementary Report
on Electrical Resistivity Survey," Electronic & Geophysical
Services, Ltd., November 1978, 1 vol.;



-66 -                         ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
B3. "Mogadishu Water Supply Expansion: Groundwater Exploration
and Modelling Studies," Institute of Hydrology (U.K.), March
1980, 3 vol.;
B4. "Feasibility Study for Mogadishu Water Supply Expansion:
Stage 2," Final Report, Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners
(Africa), July 1980, 3 vol.
March 19, 1982



IBRD 15171
DECEMBER 1980
SOMALIA                                                                                                  /
MOGADISHU SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
HYDROGEOLOGY OF SOUTHERN SOMALIA                                             E T H 1 0 P A
SHEBELLI AND JUBA RIVER VALLEYS (QUATERNARY)
COASTAL     _         BENADIR COASTAL PLAIN (TERTIARY-QUATERNARY)
PROVINCE              LOWER JUBA PLAIN (TERTIARY-QUATERNARY)
COASTAL BELT (TERTIARY-QUATERNARY)
ODDUR BORDER PLATEAU (LOWER CRETACEOUS-UPPER JURASSIC)
INLAND J       ~CRETACEOUS BORDER REGION (UPPER JURASSIC-CRETACEOUS-LOWER TERTIARY)'                        ""
PROVINCE              MUDUGH PLATEAU LORWER TERTIARY) (    I U                    T,RTIARY 7,\<  /
BUR REGION  (PRE-CAMBRIAN) , .-.  ..X \
_   FAULTS                                                                     5,,\    ,,,,\
AREA WHERE ADDITIONAL INVESTIGATION IS REQUIRED ,.0 |X '' /
    NATIONAL CAPITALS
1 ~~~~ \   t  0  X    <}/<                                          .           0}   a~~~~~~~~~'  SAUD) ARABiAf sr 
_t L ;~~~~~~~ 0 X \0 = ~~~~~~~~~~ = :t g~~~~~ AUDAB /p~~t~  fl                                                             IC
RIVERS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ BPULC~EC                               VMP
K E Ni4 :- A   0 00 X 00 30:<X fff 2 1A ESBnrp                                                                                oo Aien
i  . /   X t  0 0 tf 058fismayu                                       IO+)   ~~~~~~               ~       ~~~AbabW  SO <  5MALIAr9
| N      ===<4 Jg     -                                     KIOETERF -.
ai=; V ,Q~~~~~ 50                                          15lOSo,0., t.</ 
\  X =,tr~ ~ ~ ~~TA ,top eredr of ttopropo,td to hc t Widrok 3ttttte ~oThe oA de jimrotl uott ooottStt /h  ii0
\  -f              bohries s~~Atthowotn thit m3p dt m mph, on rhMp#Jf,n othe v 6'SIBtOEod,
9  acce~~~~~optotoe oP such OoooutJrto                          yflS ,                                                     AOS  i0
iANZANib -......t.LOhfT.RS . 






BRD 1517
,I  NOVEMBER 1I1
<2T               F ~                                                       SOMALIA
-_s-, MOGADISHU SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
FIRST      PROPOSED      THIRD               \'
PROJECT     PROJECT      PROJECT
EXISTING    (STAGE 1)  ISTAGE 2A)  (STAGE 21\
PRODUCTION WELLFIELDS    _              %j\
;5  \   .-. . 7  TEST WELLS                            (,
/       *      Kho- so,/ teKJom    TRANSMISSION MAINS _
~~  SOMALIA  ~ ~ ~            POWER PLANTS                 G2~A A
TREATED WATER RESERVOIRS    1 B
7 tS>    .           '.  /                         PUMPING STATIONS
GGAISW  AN 
.  t  *   j5 /                 //   ~~~~~BUILT-UP AREAS           .(    
NATIONAL CAPITALS                                                                                                            22>
KENY'A |    WZ                     OCeAN             MAJOR ROADS
// 5l'    RIVERS                         : 
*..Ctthment bood.try
--Iow   iormi bwsdrt(R
Th,s t5p h., bet pseed by the                                                t
Wol  erh  tff eslo,sel.y For
the Otnstv,tieoof the red  of
the repor to which tis letehed   /
The d-tnostet,ons used nd the.
houndeories shown so this maEp   /                                     )
do sat itply us the pas of the
World eok od its -tistos, soy
jodg t -s the lgal Statvs of
so trritbory or soyedrsemontot
srorcuapta/ooa sofo Jehsodeis. /f 
0-h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AFGOI
MILES   O'    I      2      38                                     8M                                                  ISHU
F                      4510                                                                      45 2O'



