Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-33 89-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$302.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
April 1, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  Peso (P) (100 centavos)
P 1.00          =  US$0.10
US$1.00         = eP 9.6
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BED     -  Bureau of Energy Development
BEU     -  Bureau of Energy Utilization
BOI     -  Board of Investments
EPZA    -  Export Processing Zone Authority
LPG     -  Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MOE     -  Ministry of Energy
MTI     -  Ministry of Trade and Industry
NACIDA  -  National Cottage Industry Development Authority
NCSO    -  National Census and Statistics Office
NPC     -  National Power Corporation
NTRC    -  National Tax Research Center
PNOC    -  Philippine National Oil Company
SAL     -  Structural Adjustment Loan
SBAC    -  Small Business Advisory Center



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page
Loan and Program Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i
PART I - THE ECONOMY .1...  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
A.  The Philippines' Economic Performance in the 1970s . . . . .      1
B.  Recent Economic Developments ... .  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    4
C.  Short-Term Adjustment Measures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT-S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM . . . . .   7
A. Need for Structural Change . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
B.  Medium-Term Structural Adjustment Program .  . . . . . . . .   8
C.  Progress under First Phase of Structural Adjustment Program    10
PART III - THE SAL II PROGRAM ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  12
A.  Industrial Incentives and Promotion Policies  . . . . . . . .  13
B.  Trade Policy.. .......                                   . .     23
C.  Energy Policy and Public Resource Management  . . . . . . . .  26
D.  Program Development in Other Areas  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
PART IV - THE PROPOSED LOAN ....  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  34
A. Loan History .34
B. Relationship between the Proposed Loan and Policy Reforms . .  35
C.  Effects of Adjustment Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
D.  Benefits and Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
E. Loan Amount .41
F.  Disbursement and Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
C. Monitoring of Actions .42
H. Cooperation with the IMF .43
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
-                                                _~~~~~~K



Page
PART V - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES . . . . . . 43
PART VI -LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . .   .  .  .  ..   . . . .  46
ANNEXES
I. Country Data
II. Status of Bank Group Operations in the Philippines
III. Supplementary Data Sheet
IV. Letter of Development Policy
V. Use of IMF Resources
VI. Summary Table of the New BOI Fiscal Incentives
VII. Selected Documents Available in the Loan File
MAP - IBRD 13915



PHIILIPPINES
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:           Republic of the Philippines
Amount:             $302.3 million equivalent (including capitalized
front-end fee).
Terms:              20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Program
Description:      The proposed loan would support the second phase of the
Government s structural adjustment program which aims
at improving the allocation and efficiency of invest-
ment over the medium term. The second phase of the
program includes (i) a fundamental reform of the
Philippines- industrial incentives and promotion policy,
(ii) an extension of the ongoing trade policy reform
through measures in indirect taxation, import liberali-
zation, and tariffs, and (iii) reforms in the area of
energy policy and public resource management. The
program is described in the Government's Letter of
Development Policy to the Bank. The loan would finance
essential imports. The main benefits of the program
would be improvements in the allocation and efficiency
of industrial investment as well as in a major part of
public investment; the program would also improve the
structure of the balance of payments by limiting the
country's reliance on foreign savings and reducing the
current account deficit to more sustainable levels.
The risks of the program relate to assessing the length
and difficulty of the adjustment process, uncertainties
regarding international economic conditions, and
internal resistance to a timely and continued implemen-
tation of the adjustment program.
Estimated
Disbursements:   The loan would be disbursed in two tranches.  The first
tranche of US$202.3 million would be available for dis-
bursement at the time of loan effectiveness. The second
tranche of US$100 million would be released after a



- ii -
progress review six months later.  Disbursements for
the entire loan are expected to be canpleted within
12 months of loan effectiveness.
Appraisal Report:  This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal
Report.
Map:                IBRD 13915



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Second Structural Adjustment Loan of $302.3 million to the Republic of the
Philippines. The loan would have terms of 20 years, including 5 years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         An economic report, entitled "The Philippines:  Selected Issues
for the 1983-87 Plan Period" (No. 3861-PH), was issued on June 1, 1982. An
industrial sector report, entitled "Industrial Development Strategy and
Policy in the Philippines" (No. 2513-PH), was distributed on November 16,
1979. A related financial sector report, entitled "The Philippines: Aspects
of the Financial Sector" (No. 2546-PH), prepared by a joint IMF/Bank mission,
was circulated on October 12, 1979. A joint Bank/ADB mission prepared a
report, entitled "Philippines: Energy Sector Survey" (No. 3199a-PH), which
was issued on February 12, 1982. Country data are given in Annex I.
A. The Philippines' Economic Performance in the 1970s
Pattern of Growth
3.         During the 1970s, the Philippines followed a much more dynamic,
growth-oriented development strategy than in the past.  The growth rate of
GNP was raised from 5% in the 1960s to almost 7% at the end of the 1970s.
Expansion of the agricultural sector was quite rapid at 5% per annum, and
rice deficits were eliminated in the second half of the decade. However,
manufacturing industry grew only at about the same rate as GNP and did not
play a leading role in the Philippines' economic development. The greater
part of the sector was oriented to the domestic market and affected by severe
inefficiencies. Manufactured exports, on the other hand, grew dramatically
during the decade. In response to various export promotion measures
introduced in the early 1970s, industries producing such nontraditional
exports as garments, electronics, handicrafts, and footwear expanded at a
rate of 25% per annum. These exports accounted for more than a third of the
country's total merchandise exports at the end of the decade.
Efficiency and Allocation of Investment
4.         The increase in GNP growth during the 1970s was achieved at a high
investment cost.  The expansion in the economy½s real output was low
relative to the high level of fixed capital formation which rose from 16% to



- 2 -
25% of GNP over the decade, mainly as a result of an increase in public
fixed investment from 1.5% to 6.5% of GNP. The Philippines had a gross
incremental capital/output ratio about 35% higher than neighboring Asian
countries with roughly comparable patterns of investment. This low
efficiency of investment has been a major reason why the Philippine economy
grew less rapidly during the last decade than comparable Asian countries.
5.        The overall size of the public investment program was appropriate
at the end of the decade and its composition, with a few exceptions, broadly
consistent with the country-s development priorities. In general, public
investment projects were well selected and provided much needed basic infra-
structure, particularly in transportation, power, and irrigation. In some
instances, however, capacity was expanded prematurely (hotels), and design
standards other than least-cost ones were adopted (housing). Also,
Government financial institutions performed poorly in the selection of
projects and achieved low loan recovery rates.
6.        The limited data available indicate that the substantial differ-
ence in aggregate capital productivity between the Philippines and other
countries in the region was primarily due to differences in the efficiency
of private investment, in particular in the manufacturing sector. Past
trade, financial, and industrial policies, which were aimed at import
substitution, led to low efficiency and misallocation of investment. The
high protection and import restrictions provided by the trade regime were
the main cause of inefficiency because foreign competition was eliminated or
severely reduced. The uneven structure of protection also led to allocation
of investment into activities in which the country did not have a compara-
tive advantage. Financial policies provided for below free-market interest
rates and thus encouraged an excessive and wasteful use of capital. The
industrial incentives and promotion system further cheapened the price of
capital and reinforced the distortions in relative factor prices.
Distributional Impact
7.        The satisfactory growth performance of the Philippine economy did
not contribute significantly to alleviating the severe employment and
poverty problems of the country. During the 1970s, high population growth
kept the annual increase of GNP per capita at 3.6%, which was the lowest
growth rate among the major countries in the East Asian region. The rapid
growth of the Philippine labor force - even more pronounced through an
increase of the labor force participation rate - was not matched by creation
of productive employment opportunities in the economy. The manufacturing
sector in particular performed poorly; its share in employment remained a
low 11% throughout the decade. Real wages decreased substantially both in
industry and agriculture. The incidence of poverty remained high at about
40% of the population, reaching 60-70% in the least developed regions.
Income distribution continued to be very skewed.



8.        Despite some improvements, regional differences in investment and
income remained significant during the 1970s. The share of the six low-
income regions remained almost constant at one-third of total public invest-
ment in the regions, while the high-income regions of Manila, Central Luzon
and Southern Tagalog continued to receive nearly half. The high-income
regions increased their share in GDP from 49% in the early 1970s to 54% in
1979, while their population share grew only by 2% to 35%. Per capita GDP
in the Manila region remained three times the figure for the poor regions
throughout the decade.
Financing of Investment
9.        The pattern of resource mobilization to finance the increase in
investment changed during the decade. Domestic resource mobilization
improved in the first half of the decade, with gross domestic savings
increasing to a relatively high level of 25% of GDP. Both the private and
public sectors showed good performance. The tax ratio was raised from 11%
to 13.5% of GNP, mainly through improved tax administration and higher
revenues from taxes on growing international trade; the elasticity of the
tax system to GNP, however, did not improve. During the second half of the
decade, domestic resource mobilization levelled off and heavy foreign
borrowing was needed to help finance the increase in investment. As a
result, the external medium and long-term debt of the Philippines increased
almost five-fold during the decade, reaching US$7.9 billion in 1979. The
impact on the country's debt service, however, was limited, because export
receipts grew rapidly during this period. Moreover, the Government took
advantage of the favorable market conditions prevailing in 1978 by
restructuring and refinancing the external debt to lengthen its average
maturity and obtain more favorable interest rates.
Increasing Balance of Payments Constraints
10.       The structural weaknesses of the Philippine economy, resulting
from low efficiency and misallocation of investment as well as a heavy
reliance on foreign savings, were reflected in the balance of payments and
caused a chronic shortage of foreign exchange during most of the 1970s.
The continued large share of export earnings from a few primary products
(coconuts, sugar, copper, timber) kept the Philippines highly vulnerable to
international commodity price fluctuations. Due to the country's trade and
industrial policies, the industrial sector remained a net burden on the
balance of payments, since the import substitution strategy simply shifted
dependence on imports from consumer goods to capital and intermediate goods
while inefficiency weakened export competitiveness. Also, the country
remained heavily dependent on imported oil for its energy supply, and the
rising oil prices aggravated the trade imbalance.
11.       The Government made an initial attempt at structural change in the
economy during the 1970s. Most successful was the program to diversify
exports as a result of which nonr-traditional manufactured exports increased
from US$50 million in 1970 to US$1.5 billion in 1979.  However, because



- 4 -
these exports are still heavily dependent on imported inputs, their net
positive effect on the balance of payments has been limited. The country
also managed to constrain its energy imports through conservation and
diversification of domestic energy sources. These measures helped to reduce
the current account deficit temporarily, but had only limited impact on the
underlying structural problems of the economy.
B. Recent Economic Developments
12.       In the last three years, the structural problems of the Philippine
economy have been greatly exacerbated by the 1979 oil price increase and the
ensuing international recession. Given its production structure, the
Philippines was severely affected by the fall in commodity prices. The
increased debt service put an additional strain on the balance of payments.
Real GNP growth decreased steadily; this, together with increasing
weaknesses of public finance and the impact of a financial sector crisis,
put significant constraints on the development effort. Real income per
capita appears to have fallen, further aggravating the serious poverty
problems.
13.       The current account deficit widened from $1.2 billion (4.9% of
GNP) in 1978 to an estimated $3.4 billion (8.5% of GNP) in 1982. This had
two main sources. First, the Philippines terms of trade fell by 25%. The
increase in oil prices alone added $1.2 billion to the import bill, although
oil imports declined in volume terms. The steep drop in commodity export
prices was aggravated by a decline in export volume. Second, interest
payments on medium- and long-term loans increased more than four-fold to
$1.2 billion in 1982. This reflected both a larger volume of external debt
and a sharp rise in interest rates on international capital markets (40% on
the country-s debt carries variable interest rates). The only export
category whose earnings continued to expand was nontraditional manufactured
exports which increased to $2.3 billion. Another positive factor was the
sustained growth of migrant workers remittances. The current account
deficit was financed mainly by increased foreign borrowings, although
international reserves were also drawn down. Net disbursements of medium- and
long-term loans rose from $900 million in 1978 to $1.5 billion in 1982, and
the medium- and long-term debt outstanding reached $11.7 billion at the end
of 1982./1 The debt service ratio increased from 17% in 1978 to 25.2% in
1982./2
14.       In response to the deterioration of the balance of payments, the
Government introduced increasing flexibility in its exchange rate policy to
maintain competitiveness of Philippine exports and to restrain expansion of
/1 Total external debt, including short-term debt and IMF obligations,
reached $17.1 billion at the end of 1982.
/2 Debt service ratio defined as ratio of amortization and interest
payments on medium and long-term debt to receipts from export of goods
and services during the same year. If debt service to the IMF and
interest payments on short-term debt were to be included, the debt
service ratio would increase to 20% and 30%, respectively.



imports that could result from the trade policy reforms initiated in 1980
(cf. para. 28ff).  The peso depreciated vis-a-vis the US-dollar by 7% in
1981 and by 12% in 1982. However, because the US-dollar appreciated against
other major currencies and the Philippines inflation rate was higher than
that of its trading partners, the real effective exclhange rate appreciated
by over 3% in 1981 and depreciated only slightly in 1982.
15.       The world recession has been reflected in the domestic economy.
Real GNP growth fell from almost 7% in 1977-78 to an estimated 2.5% in 1982.
Agriculture continued to perform satisfactorily, but industrial sector
growth deteriorated markedly. Recessionary conditions and a liquidity
crisis in the financial sector in 1981 restrained private investment,
although this was partially offset by a further expansion of public fixed
investment to around 8% of GNP in 1980-82. The Philippine economy also
suffered from a temporary acceleration in the inflation rate, which rose
from 7% in 1978 to around 17% in 1979/80 before moderating to 10% in 1982.
16.       The present recession has also highlighted the inherent weakness
of the Philippines public finances. Total public sector revenues fell
sharply from a level of 16% of GNP in recent years to 14% in 1982.  Although
considerable tax legislation was passed in the last few years, this did not
prevent the already low tax ratio from falling further to 11% of GNP in
1982. With the rapidly rising level of public investment, recurrent
expenditures have had to be cut back from 12% of GNP in 1978 to only 9%
in 1982, which is inadequate to maintain the level of public services and
provide for maintenance of the existing capital stock.  Despite this con-
straint on recurrent expenditures, the public sector deficit, which
traditionally has been relatively small, increased to 5.5% of GNP in
1982. Because of low charges and poor collection performance, public
corporations have in recent years been financing less than 10% of their
investments from internal cash generation and, therefore, are heavily
dependent on government equity contributions and government guaranteed
borrowings.
C. Short-Term Adjustment Measures
Financial Program for 1980-81
17.       As a response to the widening of the balance of payments deficit,
the Government adopted a short-term adjustment program for calendar years
1980-81 which was supported by an IMF standby arrangement of SDR 410
million. The objectives of the program were: to sustain real GNP growth,
to reduce the rate of inflation, and to strengthen the balance of payments.
The program included quantitative limits on net domestic assets of the
banking system and on new approvals of foreign borrowings of 1-12 years
maturity. Following a mid-term review of the standby program in June
1981, the IMF noted that implementation of stabilization measures under the
program had been satisfactory in 1980. In January/February 1982, the IMF
conducted Article IV consultations with the Philippines and reviewed the
country-s performance in 1981, the second year of the standby arrangement.
The IMF mission found that the Government had met the quantitative perform-
ance criteria for 1981, with the exception of the program ceiling on net
domestic assets of the banking system which was exceeded slightly in



- 6 -
December. Also, progress had been made towards meeting most of the objectives
of the program. The IMF expressed concern, however, at the decline in the
ratio of tax revenue to GNP, and the associated sharp expansion of the over-
all government budget deficit.
Financial Program for 1983
18.        In order to reverse the further deterioration of the balance of
payments in 1982, the Government has formulated a new short-term adjustment
program, which is supported by an IMF standby arrangement in the amount of
SDR 315 million for calendar year 1983. The principal objectives of the
program are to reduce the current account deficit to $2.5 billion (6.2% of
GNP) in 1983, and to reduce the overall deficit from $1.2 billion in 1982 to
$600 million in 1983. These objectives will be pursued through: a tight
monetary policy; a significantly tighter fiscal policy, with a reduction in
the national government budgetary deficit from an estimated 4.2% of GNP in
1982 to 2.4% of GNP in 1983; and continued use of a flexible, market-oriented
exchange rate policy. The program includes ceilings on net domestic assets
of the banking system, net domestic credit to the public sector, new Central
Bank approvals of foreign borrowings, and an understanding on the level of
short-term external debt. The IMF mission which negotiated the standby
arrangement included a Bank staff member contributing in the area of public
investment and public expenditures. A midterm review of developments under
the program will take place in June 1983. The Philippines will also be
drawing SDR 189 million from the IMF's Compensatory Financing Facility, on
account of an export shortfall for the twelve-month period ending in
September 1982. /1
19.        As noted above, budgetary adjustment is a substantial element of
the 1983 financial program. Given the relative inelasticity of the revenue
structure, in the absence of discretionary revenue measures there would be a
further decline in the revenue effort in 1983.  However, the Government has
recently increased fees and charges, introduced a temporary 3% import duty
surcharge, and is committed to undertaking additional revenue measures,
including measures under the Government's structural adjustment program
(paras. 82 and 100), having the aggregate effect of raising 1.8 billion
pesos in additional revenue in 1983. These measures are expected to
maintain national government revenue at 11.2% of GNP in 1983, the same level
as 1982. Thus, the greater part of the budgetary adjustment would be
implemented through a reduction in national government expenditures from
15.5% of GNP in 1982 to 13.6% of GNP in 1983. Expenditure on maintenance
would be kept constant in real terms, and other areas of current expenditure
would also be relatively protected. Capital expenditures will be reduced by
23%; the sharpest decrease will be in equity contributions to government
corporations and government financial institutions, which are being reduced
by 50%. The reduction in equity contributions is expected to provide a
stronger incentive for improved financial performance and discipline on the
part of these agencies. The Government has also deferred certain major
/1 IMF financial relations with the Philippines are summarized in Annex V.



- 7 -
industrial projects and power generation projects. The composition of the
expenditure reduction is appropriate in relation to the Philippines-
development needs and current financial situtation. In addition to
responding to the short-term situation, during 1983 the Government will also
be initiating studies relating to longer-term issues of public sector
resource mobilization, and public expenditure allocation and management
(paras. 105 and 106).
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT'S STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Need for Structural Change
20.       Current account deficits of 5-8% of GNP which the Philippines has
experienced during the last five years cannot be sustained indefinitely.
While there is no immediate liquidity problem, fundamental structural
changes need to be made in the Philippine economy if future growth is not to
be seriously limited by balance of payments and creditworthiness con-
straints. First, more resources need to be channelled to export production
and efficient import-substitution, including substitutes for imported
energy. This will accelerate the country's export growth relative to its
import growth and thus reduce the trade deficit. Second, domestic savings,
particularly in the public sector, need to be increased to reduce the
country-s reliance on external borrowing. However, the scope for generating
additional domestic savings by constraining consumption growth is limited.
Consequently, it will be the efficiency of resource use that will be the
critical determinant of output growth.
21.       The Development Plan of the Philippines for the period 1983-87
reflects the need for structural adjustment. The Plan outlines as the
principal elements of the growth strategy: (a) efficient exploitation of
agricultural potential for food, agro-energy, and export crops; (b) manu-
facturing development along the lines of comparative advantage, which would
include primarily labor-intensive industries and selected capital-intensive
industries based on domestic raw materials; (c) expansion of infrastructure
necessary to support agricultural and industrial growth; (d) import-
substituting investments and effective demand management in the energy
sector; and (e) increased domestic resource mobilization and more efficient
resource utilization. On the basis of this program, the Plan projects GNP
growth to average 6.5% p.a. during the five-year period. Equity aspects of
development will be pursued through emphasis on employment generation, a
more balanced development among regions, as well as increased public
expenditures for education, health, housing, and rural infrastructure.
22.       The Plan's objectives are broadly appropriate to the Philippines'
development problems, and, at the time of its drafting, the Plan's quanti-
tative targets appeared to be ambitious, but still attainable. However, the
recent adverse economic developments have made it very difficult for the
country to achieve the Plan targets. As mentioned earlier, short-term
demand-management problems have emerged, mainly as a result of the inter-
national recession and its impact on the Philippine economy. Acute public



resource constraints have developed which will seriously limit public
investment growth. Moreover, the prospects for export growth are less
favorable than envisaged in the Plan, and projections of borrowing capacity
indicate that the country has to aim at a more rapid reduction in dependence
on foreign savings than originally envisaged. Even with a higher level of
domestic resource mobilization, growth of investment and imports will
probably be slower than projected in the Plan. Since the structural changes
will require a number of years to effect the needed improvements in the
efficiency of resource use, the economy is likely to grow at only 2-5%
during the next 2-3 years and not accelerate to 6.5% until after 1985.
However, even this outcome is dependent on a recovery in the external terms
of trade. The macro-economic projections for both the short and medium term
are given in Part IV C.
B. Medium-Term Structural Adjustment Program
23.       The Government's program of structural reform to address the
fundamental and longstanding problem of ineffective resource utilization and
its impact on the balance of payments was started in 1980. The objective is
to improve the allocation and efficiency of investment which will, in the
medium term, limit the country's reliance on foreign savings and reduce the
current account deficit to more sustainable levels of 2-3% of GNP. This
would also allow the country to maintain its growth and investment levels
and to make reasonable progress towards its other development objectives.
The program aims at creating a more liberal and competitive environment for
economic development by strengthening market forces and allowing them to
play a more important role in resource allocation.
24.       The Government's structural adjustment program is focused on those
policy areas which have the greatest need for fundamental reform and the
greatest potential for improving the balance of payments. As the preparation
and implementation of far-reaching policy reforms require considerable time
and staff resources, the program is phased and concentrated on a limited
number of sectors at a time. Moreover, phasing of the reforms is essential
to provide the economy with sufficient time to adapt to the new policy
framework.
25.       The first phase of the medium-term adjustment program has focused
on trade, industrial, and financial policies which have been a primary cause
of the low efficiency and suboptimal allocation of investment in the private
sector. In addition to improving resource use and establishing manufactur-
ing industry as a leading growth sector, reforms in these areas would have a
directly beneficial effect on the balance of payments by encouraging
nontraditional manufactured exports, reducing reliance on imports of capital
goods and intermediate inputs for manufacturing, and limiting dependence on
external borrowings by promoting greater domestic resource mobilization.
The most important elements of the Government's program are a major trade/
industrial policy reform which was supported under the Bank's first



-9-
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I),/l and financial sector reforms which
were supported by the Bank's Industrial Finance (Apex) Loan./2 Progress
with respect to the implementation of the reforms is discussed in paras.
28-32 below. SAL I provided technical assistance to help the Government
prepare future policy reform measures.
26.        The second phase of the structural adjustment program, currently
being implemented, will extend the reform program in the industrial sector,
continue the ongoing trade policy reforms, and initiate reforms in the
energy sector and in public resource management. A major reform of the
industrial incentives and promotion system has been undertaken to correct
market failures and distortions in order to improve the efficiency of
investment, increase labor absorption, and improve regional allocation of
investment. In the area of trade policy, adjustment of low tariff rates,
further elimination of import restrictions, and the related realignment of
indirect taxes are being undertaken. The Government has prepared initial
policy reforms for the energy sector which aim at reducing the country½s
heavy dependence on oil imports, improving the efficiency of energy use, and
strengthening a significant area of public resource management. This reform
program would be supported by the proposed second Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL II) and is outlined in more detail in Part III A-C.
27.        Future phases of the Government's structural adjustment program
will introduce further reforms in the energy sector, address additional
issues of public finance, and initiate reforms in agricultural policy.
Further energy policy reforms will be prepared within the general framework
set by the Government's energy policy statement (para. 93). The growing
constraints on public resources require further strengthening of investment
programming and budgeting procedures to concentrate resources on the highest
priority projects, as well as improvement in revenue performance by both the
Government and public corporations. While the overall performance of the
agricultural sector has continued to be satisfactory, there are emerging
issues with respect to the allocation and efficiency of investment in this
sector, as well as institutional questions, which call for structural
change. In all these areas, the Government has initiated or is planning
studies which will provide the basis for the formulation of future
structural adjustment measures. The details of these studies are discussed
in Part III D.
/1 Loan No. 1903, September 1980.
/2  Loan No. 1984, May 1981.



- 10 -
C.  Progress under First Phase of Structural Adjustment Program
Trade and Industry Reforms
28.       In 1980, the Government initiated a program of reforms designed to
correct the import-substitution and capital-intensive biases of the existing
trade and industrial policies. The program aims at accelerating manufactured
output and employment growth, sustaining the high growth of manufactured
exports and increasing their backward linkages, promoting efficient import
substitution, and encouraging regional dispersal of industry. The first phase
of this program covers major trade policy reforms. The objectives are to
increase efficiency and international competitiveness of Philippine industry
and to reduce allocative distortions by lowering the overall level of
protection and evening out the spread in tariff rates within and between
sectors. As continued import restrictions would defeat the tariff reform's
objectives, liberalization of import licensing is being undertaken
simultaneously. Complementing the tariff reform, the Government has also
taken steps to improve the export regime through the introduction of various
export promotion measures.
29.       Despite the international recession and the ensuing domestic
economic difficulties, implementation of the program has been good. The
improvements in the export regime were implemented in early 1980. A major
five-year tariff reform program was legislated in August 1980. As a result,
peak tariff rates for all industries have been reduced from 70% and 100% to a
ceiling rate of 50% in two steps on January 1, 1981 and January 1, 1982. In
addition, starting on January 1, 1981, a program has been initiated to realign
all other tariff rates to achieve greater uniformity in protection; the last
stage of this program will be completed on January 1, 1985./1 The tariff
ac!-,tments will reduce average effective protection for the manufectluring
sector from 44% to 29% and will bring all rates of effective protection within
a range of 10-80%. The degree of "escalation" in the structure of protection
will also be lessened. A three-year plan for the removal of the majority of
import restrictions was also adopted in August 1980. Of the 1,304 restricted
items, more than 70% have been liberalized in 1981-83. A plan for the
liberalization of most of the remaining import restrictions has recently been
formulated (see paras. 73-74).
30.       Good progress has also been made in other areas of industrial
policy. To complement the trade liberalization program, the Government has
started the implementation of sectoral restructuring and rehabilitation
programs. These are designed to help existing industries produce at lower
costs, improve efficiency, and otherwise increase competitiveness in order
to adjust to the policy changes. A program for restructuring the cement
/1 In December 1982, a temporary 3% import duty surcharge was imposed on
all imports to increase government revenues (cf. para. 19).



- 11 -
industry is underway; and, with World Bank support,/l a similar program for
the textile industry was initiated in 1982.
31.       To deepen the country-s industrial structure, a program of eleven
major industrial projects has been initiated. It includes the development
of two capital goods and nine intermediate goods industries. The comparative
advantage of the Philippines in the production of intermediate goods based
on imported raw materials, as envisaged for several of the major national
projects, is not obvious and needs to be investigated carefully. The need
is not merely to determine that they are export-earning or import-saving,
but to ensure that they are more cost-effective means of strengthening the
balance of payments than alternative investments in the economy. So far,
the Government has taken a prudent approach toward the implementation of the
eleven projects, carefully scrutinizing their economic and financial
viability. Five of the projects are currently under construction, three
projects have been postponed, and the viability of the others is being
analyzed. Two of the projects have been scaled down reducing the total cost
of the program from an original $6 billion to $3.7 billion. The
Government's strategy for financing the major industrial projects is to seek
foreign equity investment and long-term suppliers- credits in order to
minimize demands on domestic resources. However, the heavy dependence of
the eleven projects on external borrowing will aggravate the country's
already substantial debt service burden.
32.       The full impact of the trade reform will not be known until the
tariff realignment and import liberalization have been completed in 1985.
Preliminary data are mixed. On the positive side, exports of nontraditional
manufactured products continued to expand at a relatively high rate in 1981,
but stagnated in 1982 due to the international recession. Also, the
expected increase in imports resulting from the reduction of quantitative
import restrictions did not exceed 4% of overall imports. On the other
hand, the trade liberalization program is meeting with increased resistance
from the private sector as the impact of foreign competition is being felt.
This negative reaction is likely to grow stronger if the present recession
continues, and could threaten the continued implementation of the adjustment
program. The Government is concerned about the overall effects of the
policy changes on the domestic economy and has established a committee to
monitor their impact at the sectoral and macro-economic level (cf. para.
130). Also, it has intensified its dialogue with the private sector to
fully explain the objectives of the reforms. Economic projections,
including the impact of the first phase of the industrial and trade policy
reforms, are given in Part IV C.
/1  Loan No. 2127:  Textile Sector Restructuring Project, April 1982.



- 12 -
Financial Sector Reforms
33.       Reforms in financial sector policies and institutions were intro-
duced during 1981 and are an important complement to the trade and industrial
policy changes. The reforms aim at increasing savings and availability of
longer-term finance, as well as reducing fragmentation and inefficiency of
financial institutions. Towards these objectives, banking legislation was
changed; interest rates were deregulated, resulting in positive real
interest rates for the first time since 1978; fiscal incentives for term
lending and equity investment were provided, and a lender-of-last-resort
facility was established by the Central Bank.
34.       It is not yet clear to what extent these reforms are having the
desired impact on savings performance and the availability of longer-term
finance. The Philippine financial sector suffered from a crisis of
confidence in nonbank financial intermediaries in early 1981, and private
investment was depressed as a result of the recessionary conditions.
Howvever, over the medium term these significant financial reforms can be
expected to promote both increased savings and more efficient use of capital.
PART III - THE SAL II PROGRAM
35.       The second phase of the structural adjustment program which SAL II
would support is outlined in the Government's Letter of Development Policy
(Annex IV) and covers three main areas: (a) industrial incentives and
promotion policies; (b) trade policy; and (c) energy policy and public
resource management. The program is described more fully below. The
section on industrial incentives and promotion ?elicies first ar-aiyzes the
shortcomings of the present system, then describes the changes in incentives
policy and administration, and concludes with a description of sector
development programs as a new tool for policy formulation and indicative
planning at the industry level. The section on trade policy describes the
Government-s program to extend the ongoing trade policy reform in three
remaining areas: adjustment of low tariff rates, further elimination of
import restrictions, and reform of the indirect tax system. The section on
energy policy and public resource management describes the Government's
response to the first and second oil price increases, identifies the key
energy issues for the 1980s, and outlines the Government's energy reform
program. The concluding section describes the Government's actions to
prepare the next phase of the structural adjustment program in energy
policy, public resource management, and agriculture.



- 13 -
A. Industrial Incentives and Promotion Policies
36.        The Philippines' industrial incentives and promotion system, admin-
istered by the Board of Investments (BOI), has not been successful in
improving the performance of the manufacturing sector. The features of the
incentives, their allocation, and their administration have frequently
favored industrial activities which are not in line with the comparative
advantage of the country. Overall, the incentives system, together with the
protective trade regime, has been a major cause of inefficient use of
capital, low labor absorption, and regional concentration of manufacturing
industry. Moreover, the BOI has exercised excessive control over private
investment decisions by effectively regulating entry into industry. As
outlined above, in 1980 the Government embarked upon a fundamental reform of
its trade and industrial policies to reduce protection for manufacturing
industry. The Government has now undertaken a major reform of the
industrial incentives and promotion system which aims at reducing remaining
distortions and correcting market failures. This reform constitutes a
significant change in the rationale of the industrial incentives system
which will reduce Government intervention and provide the private sector
with clearer market signals.
The Present Industrial Incentives and Promotion System
37.        Investment incentives in the form of tax exemptions and credits
were introduced in the Philippines as early as 1946. These incentives were
directed toward promoting vaguely defined "new and necessary" or "basic"
industries, which often meant the same industries that enjoyed substantial
protection in the domestic market. In response to the slugg'sh growth of
manufacturing in the 1960s, an Investment Incentives Act was enacted in
1967. The intention was to provide incentives both to industries in which
domestic capacity was estimated to fall short of domestic demand and to
projects with export potential. In practice, incentives were made available
mainly to import-substitution activities and to relatively capital-intensive
processing of primary products. To reduce this bias and promote labor-
intensive manufactured exports, an Export Incentives Act was passed in 1970.
Most of the numerous incentives under the two Acts are quite similar and
take the form of accelerated depreciation allowances, net operating loss
carry-over, tax deduction for expansion reinvestment, and tax exemption on
imported capital equipment. The major categories of incentives are those
geared to reducing the cost of capital equipment and general provisions such
as rights to employ foreign nationals and basic rights and guarantees for
foreign investors. Additional benefits offered to export-oriented firms
include waiver of foreign-ownership restrictions and the possibility of
operating bonded manufacturing warehouses for the duty-free importation of
inputs.



- 14 -
38.       The Investment Incentives Act also created the Board of
Investments which was empowered to determine preferred areas of investment
through an annual plan setting priority areas for private investment, and to
administer the granting of incentives.  From these initial functions, BOI
gradually developed into a body exercising far-reaching control over
industrial investment. The high level of protection and the low cost of
capital made investment in industries producing for the domestic market
excessively attractive requiring BOI to control entry in order to avoid
overcapacity. Thus the concept of "measured capacity" was introduced to
provide a limit to the acceptance of applications in preferred areas of
investment. Moreover, and more important, BOI was also given the responsi-
bility to regulate entry into non-preferred areas of investment (i.e.,
investments not receiving fiscal incentives) through the administration of
licenses for the importation of industrial machinery and equipment. Also,
the procedures for registration of investment projects and availment of
individual incentives provided BOI with a high degree of discretion in
granting industrial incentives.
39.       BOI staff estimates indicate that over the last ten years about
one-third of industrial investment, i.e., 10% of gross domestic capital
formation, received support from BOI. Overall, however, the incentives
system did not provide the desired impetus to expansion and improved
performance of the industrial sector. Although manufactured exports
increased significantly during the 1970s as a result of export incentives
which provided selected exporters with a measure of compensation for the
anti-export bias of the protection system, backward linkages were not
established, the performance of the home industry remained inadequate, and
overall sector employment and output growth improved only marginally. This
failure of the incentives system can be traced to major shortcomings in its
conception and implementation.
40.       First, because of BOI's concern with potential overcapacity,
emphasis in deciding which industrial activities should be included in the
priorities plan has been placed on estimating the "capacity available for
expansion," i.e., filling the gap between projected (domestic) market demand
and existing capacity, rather than identifying areas of the country's comr-
parative advantage. This has reinforced the import-substitution bias of the
protection system and has resulted in considerable inefficiencies in such
areas as the textile industry. Second, the incentives themselves were
designed, in most instances, with the primary objective of promoting
investment per se and not of improving resource allocation by correcting
market failures and distortions. The very features of the incentives
reinforced inefficiency of capital use and low labor absorption in
manufacturing industry, i.e., substantial reliance has been placed on
capital-cheapening incentives, including tax and duty exemptions on capital
equipment, accelerated depreciation, and reinvestment allowances, which have
reinforced the bias towards capital-intensity created by the low import duty
on capital goods.



- 15 -
41.       A third shortcoming of the existing incentives system centers on
its administration. A considerable amount of "red tape" is associated with
the process of obtaining incentives. A firm planning to invest in an acti-
vity not included in the priorities plan must apply to BOI for that activity
to be added to the plan and submit extensive supporting documentation. Even
for activities already in the plan, a considerable volume of information is
required to obtain BOI-registration./l Further, availment of incentives is
not automatic upon BOI-registration; separate applications are needed, often
on an annual basis. This problem is compounded by the large number of
incentives available under the existing system. The administrative complex-
ity of the incentives system and the fact that BOI maintains its only office
in Manila has effectively made incentives available only to firms which
either are located in the capital or send representatives there frequently.
This has discriminated against regional, especially small and medium, firms
and has reinforced the over-concentration of industrial investment in the
Metro-Manila area.
42.       Since the introduction of the two Incentives Acts, some improve-
ments have been made to the incentives system. The capital bias of the
incentives has been slightly lessened through new measures promoting the use
of labor and the scaling-down of certain capital-cheapening incentives.
Exporters have benefitted from additional incentives based on local content
of exports and from streamlined administrative procedures. Also, additional
incentives have been provided to firms locating in disadvantaged regions.
Nevertheless, the underlying shortcomings of the system remain.
43.       In summary, the key problems of the present incentives and promo-
tion system are: (a) the excessive intervention of BOT in private investment
decisions; (b) the lack of a system for determining eligibility for incen-
tives on a sound economic basis; (c) inadequate focussing of incentives on
the objective of correcting market failures and distortions; (d) biases in
existing incentives against the use of labor arising from their capital-
cheapening effects; and (e) difficulties in administering and monitoring the
complex system of incentives.
The Incentives Reform Program
44.       A comprehensive reform of the industrial incentives system has
been approved by the Cabinet and is expected to receive final approval by
the National Assembly in April 1983. The reform will extend the guiding
principle of comparative advantage and industrial efficiency already
embodied in the trade liberalization program to the areas of fiscal incen-
tives, determination of eligibility for incentives, and sector programming.
The rationale for the new incentives system is the need to counter the
anti-development biases that are present when private market profitability
diverges from social profitability. Its principal objective is to allow
market forces to play a greater role in guiding industrial investment and to
limit the role of government intervention to the identification and treatment
/1 Registration is the process whereby the Board of Investments determines
whether a project/investment falls within the activities listed in the
priorities plan (or should be added to the priorities plan) and is
therefore eligible to receive incentives.



- 16 -
of distortions in market Indicators.  These distortions may take the form of
institutional imperfections, policy-induced distortions or inadequate market
information.
45.       Under the new system, the large number of fiscal incentives will
be replaced by a small number of new incentives specifically aimed at com-
pensating investors more directly and fully for market imperfections. The
new incentives are related to industrial performance rather than investment
per se and, therefore, the use of capital. This provides a higher level of
accountability and cost effectiveness in terms of revenue foregone and
eliminates the capital-cheapening effects of the current system.  Under the
new system, incentives will be available for a maximum period of ten years.
Rigorous economic evaluation will be used in the selection of industrial
activities eligible for incentives. The application process for availment
of incentives will be improved by streamlining and reducing administrative
procedures and by introducing greater automaticity for the availment of
export incentives. The greatly reduced number of incentives and their
performance orientation will also simplify administration.
46.       The new incentives system will also have important implications for
the role of BOI. Whereas the agency will continue to administer the reformed
fiscal incentives system, its regulatory function will be substantially
reduced.  The new incentives system, in combination with the on-going trade
and financial reforms, will over the longer term significantly reduce the
policy-induced market distortions and thus obviate the need for BOI to control
expansion of industrial capacity. Therefore, in conjunction with the
incentives reform program, the Government will, effective January 1, 1984,
decontrol import restrictions on industrial machinery and equipment, with
some exceptions,/l and allow free entry and competition in the domestic
manufacturing sector. On the other hand, BOI will assume a greater role in
industrial planning and policy formulation.
47.       Features of the New Incentives System.  Under the new system, the
total number of fiscal incentives will be reduced from twenty to eight. Of
these eight incentives, two are major new incentives; the other six
incentives are available under the current system but will be substantially
modified./2 The first major new incentive is available to all registered
enterprises, whether producing for the domestic or export market, and is
designed to compensate for general market distortions and imperfections
which inhibit efficient development of the manufacturing sector and which
cannot be addressed directly. This incentive takes the form of a tax credit
based on value added and is available to new investments during the first
five years of commercial production. It is, therefore, neutral with respect
to factor choice, and it is performance-oriented. It replaces the large
number of incentives which are available to domestic producers under the
/i  Restrictions will remain for (i) industrial projects availing of govern-
ment fiscal incentives, government financing and government guarantees,
and for (ii) investments in sectors formally designated as highly capital
intensive or subject to government rationalization programs.
/2 A summary table of the new BOI fiscal incentives system, including tax
credit percentages, is given in Annex VI.



- 17 -
current system, many of which, as previously noted, provide considerable
inducement to capital-intensive investments.
48.       The other major incentive is specific to export production.  In
addition to the above-mentioned tax credit and the already existing
provisions designed to give exporters access to capital equipment, raw
materials, and intermediate inputs at free trade prices, exporters will
receive a tax credit based on the net local content of export production for
the first ten years of commercial operations. This measure is designed to
provide compensation for the discrimination against exports arising from the
tariff and trade regime. While this incentive is not expected to fully
compensate for the anti-export bias of the protection system, it will provide
significant encouragement to new export production pending more direct
resolution of this market distortion through the ongoing, but gradual, tariff
reform and import liberalization program.
49.       Under the new system, only one tax incentive related to investment
in capital equipment will be retained in form, but changed considerably in
substance and scope. The complete exemption from taxes and duties on
imported capital equipment and the corresponding tax credit on locally
purchased capital equipment will continue to be available to export producers
to put them on a free-trade basis.  However, for domestic producers, this
incentive will in effect be a deferred payment of taxes and duties; their
amount will be deducted from future tax credits on value added. Also, only
50% of these taxes and duties will be deferrable. This provision represents
simply an advance on the more neutral value added tax credit. Its function
is to improve the cash flow position of investment projects which may earn
insufficient taxable income against which to offset the tax credit during
the early years of operation. All other tax incentives linked to the
investment in capital equipment, e.g., tax allowances and accelerated
depreciation, have been abolished.
50.       The new incentives system will retain a small number of incentives
from the current system, including net operating loss carry-over in
assessing taxable income and tax credit for withholding tax on interest
payments overseas. Also, special provisions for foreign investors as well
as customary rights and guarantees, such as rights associated with
repatriation of foreign capital, will be retained. Finally, all tax credits
under the new system may be carried forward to subsequent years if the
firm's taxation obligations are lower than the available tax credits in a
particular year.
51.       The new incentives system will continue to provide higher
incentives for infant industries. These cases, classified as "pioneer"
investments, include activities for which present profitability does not
adequately reflect the future advantage of the investment due to factors
such as lengthy learning processes and private risks being substantially
greater than social risks. Under this definition, the "pioneer" category
will in the future apply to a more limited group of activities than under
the current system. "Pioneer" activities will be eligible for double the
tax credit on net value earned and, in the case of domestic producers, for
deferment of 100% of taxes and duties on capital equipment.



- 18 -
52.       With respect to incentives for regional dispersion, provisions
established by law /1 under which BOI-registered projects locating in
disadvantaged regions receive additional incentives will he continued.
Also, the reduction in the number of incentives and the substantial simpli-
fication of administrative procedures under the new system (para. 56ff) will
make it considerably easier for smaller, regionally dispersed firms to apply
for, and avail of, incentives. The Government recognizes that the incentives
system can play only a minor role in promoting regional development and that
improved infrastructure is urgently needed. Comprehensive regional
industrialization strategies will therefore be formulated.
53.       The Government has estimated that the impact on budget revenues of
the new system will be approximately equal to that under the current system.
This assessment is based on estimates of the revenue forgone if the new
incentives had been available to firms actually registered with BOI in 1980.
However, the new system will be considerably more cost-effective than the
current one. As the new incentives are performance-oriented, the revenue
forgone will be directly related to the contribution of recipient enterprises
to the Philippine economy. Thus, any increase in budgetary costs of the
system would be more than compensated by increased manufacturing sector
value added.
54.       Determination of Eligibility for Incentives.  The approach to
determine which activities will be eligible for incentives has been
considerably improved under the new system. The key criterion in determining
eligibility will be the Philippines- prospective areas of longer-term
comparative advantage. Whereas distortions in general will be alleviated
significantly as a result of the ongoing trade and financial reforms,
budgetary resource constraints preclude the possibility of fully
compensating for all remaining market failures and imperfections through the
provision of fiscal incentives. The Government has, therefore, limited
eligibility for incentives to those industrial activities considered to have
the best long-term prospects for economic and financial viability but which,
due to institutional or other impediments, may not be developed or may
develop more slowly in the absence of short- or medium-term support. This
limitation applies primarily to domestic market activities as all export
production will be eligible for incentives. Investments not eligible for
incentives and therefore not registered with BOI will, however, be allowed
free entry; they will no longer be regulated through a restriction on the
importation of capital equipment (see para. 45).
55.       As under the current system, BOI will prepare an annual priorities
plan which lists activities eligible for incentives. BOI will undertake
detailed economic analysis to determine priority areas for investment. In
the future, BOI will use a more systematic approach in identifying broad
activities for inclusion in the plan compared with the current situation in
/1 Batas Pambansa Bilang 44, May 1980.



- 19 -
which priorities are largely determined on a project-by-project basis.
Sector development programs, as outlined in para. 59, will provide a basis
for the selection of industrial activities to be included in the plan. In
the short run, however, sector programs will only be available for a limited
number of sectors. BOI will, therefore, identify, and include in the
priorities plan, generic categories of comparatively advantageous industrial
activities e.g., non-traditional exports, to complement the sector
programming approach.
56.       Simplification of Administrative Procedures.  A guiding principle
of the Government's reform strategy has been to make incentives available
more automatically to enterprises which invest in priority areas of activi-
ties. Once an activity has been identified for inclusion in the priorities
plan, enterprises seeking BOI registration will be required simply to
demonstrate that their proposed investments fall within the scope of the
plan. For exporters, registration will be virtually automatic. For very
large projects, more comprehensive registration procedures will be necessary,
but even here considerable simplification of information requirements has
been effected. Also, BOI has introduced new procedures for registration
which will shorten the processing time.
57.       The application process for availment of incentives will also be
much simpler under the new system, because the number of incentives has been
greatly reduced and most of them are performance-oriented. In most cases,
availment will simply require an enterprise to submit evidence of perform-
ance. BOI will then calculate the amount of incentive entitlement which the
enterprise subsequently submits with its annual tax returns.
58.       The simplification of administrative arrangements will also have a
beneficial impact on small and regionally dispersed firms. The amount and
complexity of information required of these firms for registration and
incentives availment will be greatly reduced. In addition, a system has
already been introduced whereby staff in the regional Small Business
Advisory Centers (SBACs) of the Ministry of Trade and Industry are available
to assist local firms in the preparation and submission of applications for
BOI registration.
Sector Development Programs
59.       As an integral part of its new industrial promotion policy, the
Government has introduced the concept of sector development programs to
convert broad industrial development objectives into a consistent set of
policies and actions at the sectoral level. Sector programs, as defined in
the Government's concept paper, outline a strategy for the development of a
particular industry over the medium term. A sector program identifies
sector-specific market failures and distortions and describes appropriate
policy responses to promote development of industrial activities in line with
long-run comparative advantage and consistent with the overall industry and



- 20 -
trade policy strategy. Although the programs involve a degree of government
intervention, the emphasis of this intervention has shifted from one of
regulating investments and entry into industry on a project-by-project basis
to one of implementing broader sectoral policies and actions which serve to
improve the functioning of the market system in the allocation of resources.
60.        Sector development programs will vary considerably from sector to
sector. Some sectors may be characterized by complex interrelationships
between different activities, typically involving critical choices in respect
of technology and requiring careful policy design to take account of the
market imperfections associated with the inter-dependency of investment
decisions not normally taken into account by individual investors. Some
programs may be designed to assist the efficient restructuring of industries
negatively affected by overall trade policy reforms. Under such programs,
financial and technical assistance would be provided to improve efficiency and
increase competitiveness. Conversely, other sectors may have nascent compara-
tive advantage but may have been discriminated against by the structure of
past trade or incentives policies. In such cases, the main focus will bet on
identification of opportunities for development and, possibly, the provision
of infant industry assistance, such as training and technical assistance.
The role of small and medium industries and prospects for regional disper-
sion may also be important issues for some sectors, and special measures may
be required to remove or offset institutional or policy biases against these
activities.
61.       In addition, sector programs will provide a key input for the
identification of areas of activity to be included in the priorities plan
based on subsectoral studies of comparative advantage and analysis of
institutional and policy constraints affecting particular activities. More-
over, they will constitute a sound basis for indicative planning, whereby
the Government, in collaboration with the private sector, will provide
information about market prospects, technology developments, and other areas
of vital interest to both Government planners and private investors but
which otherwise would not be generally available.
62.       Sector development programs will play an important role in the
formulation of future industrial policy reforms. Tariff adjustments, beyond
the completion of the current (across-the-board) round, will be determined
on the basis of detailed sector analysis both in terms of final tariff
levels and pace of implementation. Moreover, sector development programs
will provide an instrument for coordinating the policies and activities of
various government agencies dealing with a particular industry.
63.       Several sector development programs, which are the joint responsi-
bility of BOI and the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI), are currently
under preparation. Considerable progress has already been made in the
preparation of a sector development program for the mechanical engineering
industries.  Other sectors for which development programs are currently under



- 21 -
preparation, or are planned in the near future, include food processing,
electronics, garments, leather and footwear, as well as woodworking and
furniture. Two restructuring programs, for the cement and textile industries,
are under implementation./1
Institutional Strengthening and Changing Role of Administering Agencies
64.       The new incentives system and its administration constitute a major
departure from the existing system with important ramifications for the
institutional structure, staffing needs and training requirements of BOI and
MTI.   The increased emphasis on economic analysis in priority determination
and the commitment to sector development programming will require substantial
upgrading of the economic and technical capabilities of the staff of these
organizations. Also, the simplified administration of the fiscal incentives
system will release staff resources which will be used to strengthen BOI's
capacity to fulfill its expanded role in the field of indicative planning and
policy formulation. These changes will necessitate organizational
restructuring and extensive staff training.
65.       The Government has, therefore, developed proposals for a revised
organizational structure for BOI and MTI which includes the following major
elements. A permanent unit will be established in MTI's Bureau of Industrial
Development to take primary responsibility for the preparation of sector
programs. In addition, for each sector programming exercise, a joint
MTI/BOI task force will be established with a full time project manager,
outside specialists hired on a temporary basis as needed, and arrangements
for interagency cooperation instituted. BOI intends to establish a planning
division which will strengthen the agency's role in indicative planning. In
addition, economic and technical staff in the BOI Industry Departments will
be gradually expanded.
66.       Complementing the organizational changes, BOI has also developed
comprehensive programs for staff recruitment and training. An initial intake
of 18 university graduates by BOI was completed in Mlay, 1982 as the first
stage of a "Young Managers Program" designed to attract and retain well-
qualified graduates. Intensive training courses have been designed and are
being implemented to provide these and other recruits with basic training in
the operations of BOI and in policy analysis.  These courses will be supple-
mented by on-the-job training. For existing staff of BOI and MTI, regular
skill development and refresher workshops will be held (focussing on the
implementation of the new incentives system, strengthening staff capabilities
in investment priority determination, project evaluation and supervision, and
monitoring techniques) as well as policy orientation workshops (emphasizing
policy directions and developments of relevance to BOI and MTI). Full time
/1 The Bank provides assistance to the textile sector restructuring program
through Loan No. 2127.



- 22 -
training officers have been appointed in both BOI and MTI to plan, coordinate,
and supervise these and related training programs. In October 1982, the
Economic Development Institute of the World Bank conducted a two-week seminar
for senior BOI and MTI staff covering the areas of financial and economic
analysis of projects as well as trade and industrial policy.
67.       Considerable work has been completed in identifying information
needs of BOI and MTI and in establishing a management information system.
Priority attention has been given to the development of a system for moni-
toring the administration and impact of the new incentives system. The
design of the new incentives system will permit easier and more comprehen-
sive mo.itoring of its costs in terms of revenue foregone and in relation to
improved performance of the sector in terms of increased output, exports,
employment, etc., an area which has been seriously neglected in the past.
The new monitoring procedures will be established prior to the introduction
of the new incentives system.
68.       The Government has initiated a major program to strengthen the
National Census and Statistics Office (NCSO) and to improve industrial
statistics. The program is of paramount importance for providing a reliable
data base for industrial policy decisions, monitoring industrial perform-
ance, and assessing the impact of new industrial policies that are being
implemented. It is generally recognized that NCSO's performance in all
these areas has deteriorated over the last few years. The Government's
program to strengthen NCSO comprises four components.   First, institutional
arrangements will be improved to make NCSO more responsive to needs of user
agencies, i.e., to focus on priority data and to define a statistical work
program. Second, the staffing of NCSO will be improved by increasing the
number of supervisory positions and providing training. NCSO salaries will
be increased to attract and retain high quality staff. Third, NCSO will be
provided with additional equipment and vehicles to strengthen its provincial
statistical offices. Fourth, technical assistance will be provided to NCSO
over a period of four years to revise its work program and to provide
further training.
Extension of the Incentives Reform Proposals to Incentives
Administered by Other Agencies
69.       Incentives administered by BOI comprise the most important of the
fiscal incentives available to manufacturing industries. There are, however,
a number of incentives administered by other agencies which have not been
incorporated in the current reform proposals. These include, among others,
incentives for exporters setting up in export processing zones, administered
by the Export Processing Zone Authority (EPZA), and incentives for cottage
industries administered by the National Cottage Industry Development
Authority (NACIDA). A review of these non-BOI fiscal incentives has already
been started by the National Tax Research Center (NTRC) with the principal
objective of making them consistent with the new BOI incentives. On the
basis of the study, which is expected to be completed in the second half of
1983, the Government will implement the required changes.



- 23 -
B. Trade Policy
70.        As mentioned in paras. 28ff. above, the Government is currently
implementing a phased trade liberalization program which includes a realign-
ment of the tariff structure and liberalization of more than 70% of existing
import restrictions. The Government has now extended this program in three
areas. First, it has adopted a minimum nominal tariff rate as a policy
guideline for the second phase of the tariff reform program which will be
implemented after 1985 when the current round of tariff realignment will be
completed. Second, the majority of remaining import restrictions will be
eliminated. Finally, the differential treatment of foreign and domestically
produced products under the Philippine indirect tax system will be phased
out as part of the overall realignment of the structure of protection.
Adjustment of Low Tariff Rates
71.        High effective protection for a particular industrial activity
results from low protection on inputs as well as from high protection on
outputs. In the Philippines, low duties on material inputs have in many cases
contributed to excessively high rates of effective protection for industries
using them. For this reason, selective increases in below average tariff
rates are being implemented under the current round of tariff reform in
addition to the reduction of peak rates. But no across-the-board minimum
tariff level has been introduced. Hence, the Government has now adopted, as
a policy guideline for future tariff reform, a minimum nominal tariff rate of
10% to complement the movement toward greater uniformity in the structure of
protection resulting from the reduction of peak tariffs (from 70% and 100% to
a ceiling of 50%) which was implemented in 1981-82. The minimum tariff will
encourage the growth of potentially efficient import-substituting industries
which have been discriminated against under the existing tariff structure
and will deepen the country's industrial structure. It will also limit the
potential negative effects of the ongoing tariff cuts on the balance of
payments and government revenues.
72.        The Government intends to review existing tariff rates that are
below 10%, as well as their impact on relevant industries, during the
preparation of the sector development programs (para. 62). Appropriate
adjustments will be made during the second phase tariff realignment which is
scheduled to be initiated after the current round of tariff reform has been
completed, i.e., after January 1, 1985.
Import Liberalization
73.        The Government has formulated a plan for removal of most of the
remaining import restrictions. This plan will be formally adopted in April
1983. A substantial proportion of these restrictions apply to luxury items,
the liberalization of which could lead to significant additional imports.
Therefore, higher internal taxes on both imported and domestically produced
luxury items will be introduced simultaneously to discourage non-essential
consumption (para. 78).



- 24 -
74.       As in the case of the liberalization plan initiated in 1980, the
elimination of restrictions will proceed in phases to allow time for local
industries to adjust and to spread the balance of payments effect. Of the
remaining 383 restricted items, 36 items will be made freely importable in
1984 and 201 items in 1985. Imports of the remaining items will remain
restricted for reasons of national security, public health, and safety.
Hiowever, an additional 27 items might be liberalized in conjunction with the
phase-out of the local content programs in the mechanical engineering
industry. Restrictions on imports of 9 agricultural products will be
further reviewed for possible future liberalization.
Reform of Indirect Taxes
75.       The reform of the indirect taxes comprises a series of measures to
align the Philippines' sales and excise taxes with the new tariff and trade
regime. It involves two areas of adjustment: in the short run, the
elimination of the protective features of the current sales and excise tax
structures; and in the longer run, the introduction of a second-stage sales
tax as well as the restructuring of the indirect tax system in order to
improve its elasticity and administration.
76.       The Current Indirect Tax System.  The current indirect tax system /1
in the Philippines has effectively served, for many years, as an instrument
for protection of domestic industries. Under the so-called advance sales tax
and the excise tax, many "semi-essential" and "non-essential" imports are
taxed at significantly higher effective rates than close substitutes of
domestic origin. These higher effective rates result from two factors.
First, the tax base for the calculation of the advance sales tax is inflated
by a variable markup, i.e. depending on the category of imports, 20, 50 or
100% is added to the landed cost before the tax is calculated. Second, higher
nominal rates are levied on imports than on corresponding goods produced
domestically; this applies to the advance sales tax as well as the excise
taxes. The markups and the higher nominal rates provide a strong incentive
for import-substitution and have thus become important elements of the
country's protection system. Estimates show that, on average, one-third of
the effective protection accorded to the manufacturing sector in 1980 was due
to the protective effect of the indirect taxes. For particular industries,
especially those producing luxury consumer goods, this protective effect is
estimated to be considerably higher.
/1  The current indirect tax system includes a sales tax and a number of
excise taxes. The sales tax consists of (a) a domestic sales tax
which is levied on domestic production at the factory; and (b) an
advance sales tax which is levied on imported goods at the port. The
excise taxes are levied on imported and domestically produced goods at
the port and the factory, respectively.



- 25 -
77.       The markups and differential rates are important from the point of
view of revenue generation. Currently, about half of the sales tax revenue
is collected from the advance sales tax. Similarly, half of excise tax
revenue comes from the higher rates levied on imported products. Admin-
istration of these two taxes, however, is cumbersome because of a multitude
of tax rates, some of which vary according to such factors as the price of
the commodity and its raw material inputs.
78.       Program for Realignment of Indirect Taxes.  In March 1983, legis-
lation was introduced for a comprehensive reform of the indirect tax
structure. The objective of the reform is to remove the differential tax
treatment of imported and domestically produced goods, and, simultaneously,
to simplify the tax administration. Moreover, greater progressivity will be
introduced to discourage non-essential consumption and restrain the
expansion of luxury imports that could result from lowering tariffs and
relaxing import restrictions. The reforms are three-fold: (a) removal of
the advance sales tax; (b) introduction of a second-stage sales tax; and (c)
restructuring of excise taxes. Implementation of the reforms will be phased
to provide a transition period for industry and consumers.
79.       To reduce the protective effect of indirect taxes, the advance
sales tax will be eliminated in phases. First, on March 16, 1983, the
current differential markups were replaced by a uniform markup of 25%.
80.    Second, on January 1, 1985, a second stage sales tax will be intro-
duced and the advance sales tax eliminated. The exact structure of this new
tax is still to be determined and a study of its features will be undertaken
during 1983. The groups of commodities subject to the new sales tax will he
reclassified according to essentiality and reduced from seven to four
categories, each with a new tax rate. To simplify the indirect tax
administration, the second stage tax should incorporate as many features of
the first stage tax as possible, i.e., it should contain the same tax-credit
provisions. The latter would be consistent with the Government's long-term
objective to introduce a fullfledged value added tax in the Philippines.
Moreover, its base should be as broad as possible to compensate for the
revenue loss that will be incurred as a result of the elimination of the
advance sales tax.
81.       The reform of the excise taxes involves two steps.  First, the large
number of categories of goods subject to different tax rates will be reduced
and the rate structure simplified. Also, specific excises will be converted
to an ad valorem basis, to the extent administratively feasible, in order to
improve the elasticity of the system. Second, the rates on domestic
products will be equalized with the rates on imported goods. The alignment
of the excise tax system will also take place on January 1, 1985.



- 26 -
82.        Upon full implementation, i.e. in 1985, the new sales and excise
taxes are estimated to generate e 300 million of additional revenues, taking
into account the revenue loss that will result from the elimination of the
markups.
C. Energy Policy and Public Resource Management
83.        As in many other countries, the energy sector in the Philippines
is of critical importance to the structural adjustment effort. The
country's heavy dependence on imported oil for its commercial energy supply,
combined with the massive increases in international oil prices since 1973,
increased its oil import bill more than ten-fold, contributed to the
deterioration of the terms of trade, and adversely affected the balance of
payments and growth performance of the economy. Whereas the Government has
been relatively successful in restraining energy consumption, a substantial
restructuring of the energy sector is essential for reducing the external
imbalance and improving the prospects of economic growth. To achieve this
restructuring, energy conservation efforts will have to continue, large and
properly planned public investments will have to take place in order to
develop domestic energy sources, and strong resource mobilization efforts will
have to be made, particularly in the public sector, to finance these
investments.
The Oil Crisis and the Government-s Policy Response
84.        Before the oil crisis of 1973, oil imports placed a relatively
small burden on the country s balance of payments. In 1972, they
constituted only 12% of merchandise imports. As a result of the sharp oil
price increases during 1973-75, the oil import bill quadrupled and its share
in merchandise imports jumped to 22%. The Government responded to this crisis
quickly and effectively. Increasingly successful efforts were made to
encourage energy conservation, develop domestic energy resources, promote
conversion from oil to other energy sources, and strengthen the various energy
institutions.
85.        Energy Conservation.  Energy pricing policy has been the main
instrument for encouraging energy conservation. Domestic petroleum product
prices were increased nearly eight-fold during 1973-80 and, including taxes
and levies,/l were, on average, about 40% above border prices at the end of
the decade. Power tariffs were also increased during the same period but to a
lesser extent. The Government undertook educational campaigns to
/1  Taxes on petroleum products accounted for nearly 20% of government tax
revenues in 1981.



- 27 -
discourage energy waste and provided fiscal incentives to encourage
investment in energy saving equipment. These energy conservation efforts
helped reduce the elasticity of energy consumption with respect to GDP from
2.0 in the pre-1973 period to 0.5 during 1973-80./I
86.        Development of Domestic Energy Resources.  The energy conservation
measures were complemented by accelerated efforts to explore, evaluate, and
develop the country's considerable domestic energy resources: oil and gas,
geothermal steam, hydro power, coal, and biomass materials for the production
of alcohols, charcoal, and fuelwood. Domestic energy investment increased
sharply from P 276 million in 1973 to over P 6.0 billion in 1980.
Although oil production did not live up to its earlier promise and met less
than 2% of commercial energy needs in 1980, the share of domestic energy
sources in total commercial energy supply nevertheless increased from 5% to
17% during 1973-80./2
87.        Conversion from Oil to other Energy Sources.  Besides encouraging
energy conservation, the Government-s petroleum pricing and tax policies
provided an incentive for the energy-intensive industries to convert from
oil to coal, which had become relatively cheaper. Moreover, in view of the
good prospects for expanded production of domestic coal, this was supple-
mented by more direct measures. The cement industry, traditionally the
country's largest user of industrial fuel oil, was mandated to convert to
coal and made eligible for special fiscal incentives. Also, a program of
progressive substitution of domestic energy resources for imported oil was
initiated for the power sector.
88.        Strengthening  of Energy Institutions.  To improve the formulation
and implementation of energy policies and programs, the Covernment took
steps to strengthen the various institutions in the sector. In 1973, it
established the Philippine National Oil Company (PNOC) to ensure reliable
oil supply and distribution and to facilitate investment in energy explora-
tion and development. In 1977, a full-fledged Ministry of Energy (MOE) was
formed to plan, supervise, and coordinate sectoral activities. Deputy
Ministers were appointed to head the two key agencies in the sector, PNOC and
the National Power Corporation (NPC). Line responsibilities of the Ministry
were assigned to two major bureaus: the Bureau of Energy Development (BED),
which was given the task of supervising the development of indigenous energy
resources (except hydro and nonconventional); and the Bureau of Energy
/1 The much lower elasticity during the late 1970s was partly due to
recessionary conditions and sluggish growth of the energy-intensive
sectors such as industry.
/2 These figures exclude bagasse (the residue of sugarcane used to
generate energy in sugar mills) and other agricuiltural wastes as
sources of commercial energy. Unless indicated otherwise, this defini-
tion of commercial energy supply will be used in this section.



- 28 -
Utilization (BEU), which was made responsible for overseeing and implement-
ing the energy conservation program, regulating the distribution of oil and
petroleum products, and forecasting overall energy demand and supply. In
addition, there now exist an Atomic Energy Commission, a Board of Energy
(which regulates oil product and electricity prices), a National Coal
Authority, the Philippine National Alcohol Commission, the National
Electrification Administration (which is responsible for rural electri-
fication), and the Center for Nonconventional Energy Development (now a
department of PNOC).
Recent Developments and Issues for the 1980s
89.        The vulnerability of the economy on account of oil imports was
further underscored by the second oil price shock of 1979-80. Although the
volume of oil imports dropped between 1978 and 1981, the oil import bill
increased sharply from $1.0 billion to nearly $2.5 billion during the
period. In 1981, oil imports reached 31% of merchandise imports and
exceeded the size of the current account deficit. The country urgently
needs to accelerate the structural reform of the energy sector to relax this
constraint on the balance of payments and overall growth.
90.        The first priority for the 1980s is, therefore, to accelerate t:he
development of domestic energy resources. This will require substantial
investments which will claim a considerable proportion of the country s
financial resources. At present, two-thirds of all energy investment is
undertaken by the public sector, constituting almost one-third of total
public sector investment and contributing to increasing budgetary deficits.
Accelerated energy development, therefore, will need to be accompanied by
increased public resource mobilization efforts in order to limit its impact
on the Government's financial position. Furthermore, the Government will
need to ensure that resources are concentrated on the projects of highest
priority.
91.        The second priority is to further adjust energy prices, not only
to mobilize additional resources but also to improve energy demand manage-
ment. The overall power tariff increases have lagged behind price increases
for other energy products during 1973-80, and power tariffs have remained
relatively low. This was partly responsible for a growth rate of 7% per
annum in electricity consumption compared to only 1% per annum in oil
consumption. Average wholesale power tariffs are also significantly below the
long run marginal cost of supplying power. This has induced misallocation
of resources and contributed to the poor financial performance of NPC which
has become progressively more dependent on Government equity contributions
for its peso needs. These contributions financed nearly 30% of NPC-s
investment in 1981. In addition, the structure of wholesale and retail
power tariffs suffers both from inefficiencies and inequities. In many
cases, tariffs vary considerably among consumer classes, regions, and even
districts without necessarily reflecting marginal cost differences or social
considerations.



29 -
92.        Although the overall level of petroleum product prices (including
taxes) is adequate to meet the objectives of energy conservation and revenue
generation, the price structure of petroleum products and LPG has become
distorted. There are considerable differentials in the retail prices of
petroleum products, especially those of gasoline and diesel, due mainly to
different tax rates.  The price of diesel was about 15% below that of
gasoline in 1973 but the difference increased to 40% in 1981. This has
induced significant substitution of gasoline by diesel and encouraged diesel
consumption. Because of limited flexibility in refining coefficients,
this has resulted in a situation where the country is currently importing
diesel fuel and exporting gasoline. A similar price differential has also
encouraged increased consumption of LPG, a close substitute of gasoline and
diesel. Although the economic costs of these supply and demand imbalances
are relatively small at present, they could reach unacceptable levels in the
future. In addition, the price differentials are inducing inefficient
substitution and uneconomic investment by industries and consumers.
The Energy Reform Program
93.        In response to the 1979-80 oil price shock, the Government has
drawn up an energy reform program aimed at accelerating the structural
changes in the sector. The main objectives of the program are further
diversification of energy sources, improvement in energy conservation,
and generation of additional funds for energy investment. The measures and
policies aimed at achieving these objectives are set forth in the
Government-s comprehensive energy policy statement (Annex IV, Attachment
III). These measures and policies, given their wide scope and numerous
elements, cannot be implemented simultaneously. Hence, the Government-s
initial policy reforms have focussed on the key issues of domestic energy
development, energy pricing and resource mobilization, and energy
conservation. The paragraphs which follow discuss the specific measures in
these areas that are currently under implementation or will be initiated in
the near future.
94.        Energy Investment Plan and its Financing.  The main instrument for
the structural reform of the energy sector is the investment plan for
1982-87. The major thrusts of the plan are to increase the use of geo-
thermal steam, coal, and hydro resources for power generation; to expand
domestic coal production; to promote oil and gas exploration and develop-
ment; and to provide the necessary infrastructure for all these activities.
The Governmient projects that the share of domestic energy supply (including
bagasse and other agricultural wastes) in total commercial energy will
increase from about 27% in 1981 to 49% by 1987. Energy imports as a
percentage of merchandise imports would fall from over 30%. at present to
less than 25% at the end of the six-year period. Even if the plan were to
slip by one or two years, it would still provide significant relief to the
balance of payments by the mid-1980s.



- 30 -
95.       The investment plan involves total capital outlays of P 67 bil-
lion /1 (in 1982 prices) during 1982-87, equivalent to about 2.8% of
projected GDP. Nearly two thirds of this investment will be made in the
public sector, constituting about one-third of the projected public sector
investment for the six-year period. Among the subsectors, power generation
and transmission will claim the largest share (52%), exploration and
development of energy resources the next largest (26%), with the remainder
going towards rural electrification (15%) and the provision of downstream
infrastructure (7%).
96.       The main objective of the plan is to achieve maximum replacement
of oil imports in the given period, which is justified on economic and
security grounds. The core power generation and transmission program has
been reviewed by the Bank and is in line with the least-cost principle.
The main elements of the geothermal, oil, and coal exploration and develop-
ment plans have also been analyzed in the context of recent Bank-supported
projects and found satisfactory. Nevertheless, the size of the plan and its
physical targets are ambitious considering resource and implementation
constraints. Although the Government is strongly committed to the plan and
intends to make maximum efforts to implement it, it recognizes these con-
straints and is taking steps to address them. First, it plans to mobilize
additional resources from within the sector as discussed in the following
paragraphs. Second, it will periodically review the plan in the context of
available resources and implementation progress, and adjust it if necessary.
The first such review is currently in progress.
97.       To finance energy investment, the Government will mobilize maximum
possible resources from within the sector. Thus, the peso requirements of
the power sector, the major component of the plan, will be financed
increasingly from internal cash generation (see para. 98 below). In 1982,
the Government approved a financing plan for NPC which provides for elimi-
nating equity contributions by 1986 and lays down annual equity targets of
P 2.5 billion in 1982 [actual P 2.3 billion], P 2.3 billion in 1983,
P 1.7 billion in 1984, and P 1.2 billion in 1985. Since these
contributions currently amount to one-fifth of the government budgetary
deficit, their phasing out will provide substantial relief to the public
resource position. Over two-thirds of total energy investments during
1982-87 will be in foreign exchange amounting to $6.0 billion (in current
prices) which will be financed by external borrowing. These foreign
exchange needs will be more than offset by the expected savings on account
of reduced energy imports. Even if external debt service is taken into
account, the net positive effect on the balance of payments will be
significant.
/1 This figure includes an investment of P 10.7 billion for rural
electrification. These funds are allocated to the National
Electrification Administration and are on-lent to private electric
cooperatives to be repaid over 30 years.



- 31 -
98.        Power Tariffs.  The reduction and eventual elimination of equity
contributions to NPC is to be achieved primarily by increasing its level of
self-financing through power tariff increases. If the power investment plan
were to be implemented on schedule, tariff increases of around 45% would be
required during 1982-86 /1 to meet the financial targets. Ehowever, if the
investment plan is rephased, as expected, and the tariff structure is reformed
(see para. 99 below), the required increases in the base rate would be
somewhat lower, probably about 35-40%. As a first step, starting July 1982,
NPC put into effect seven quarterly tariff increases of 0.75 centavos per kWh
amounting to a cumulative 12% increase over the base. In February 1983,
realizing the need for additional resource mobilization, it raised the tariffs
by another 10%. Thus, by January 1984, power tariffs will have increased by a
total of 22%. NPC is further committed to instituting necessary additional
tariff increases during 1984-86 to meet the financial targets.
99.        The retail power tariffs in the Metro Manila area (which accounts
for a major snare in the country's electricity consumption) have been
restructured in December 1982. Under the new structure, significant
increases have been made in electricity rates for consumers using between
50 kWh and 200 kWh per month (generally comprising middle and lower-middle
income households). The tariffs for consumers using less than 200 kWh had
not been increased for several years and were extremely low. The new tariff
rates will thus help increase the efficiency of power pricing, conserve
energy, and improve the financial position of the Manila Electric Company, a
private utility which incurred a loss in 1981. They will also reduce the
existing cross-subsidization which was excessive compared to subsidies
extended to electricity consumers outside Manila and which was benefiting a
large number of households not strictly falling in the "low-income"
category. Also, a proposal to remove the sharp disparities in tariffs that
exist within a radius of 60 km around Metro Manila is currently under
consideration. In addition, the Government plans to undertake a compre-
hensive study of the structure of both wholesale and retail power tariffs of
public and private utility agencies in the country with a view to elimi-
nating remaining distortions (para. 91 above). The terms of reference for
the study have been formulated; the study is expected to be completed by
March 1984.
100.       Petroleum Product Pricing.  The Government will continue to pass
on to consumers all increases in petroleum prices. To correct the distortions
in the structure of the prices (including taxes) of the various petroleum
products and LPG, the Government has initiated a two-phase study. The first
/1 Tariff increases discussed here relate to the basic average rate and
are in addition to fuel cost adjustment surcharges which will
automatically cover increases in the prices of fuel, which currently
represent about 30% of total operating costs. The increases in the basic
average rate therefore represent a substantial increase in real terms;
the resultant revenue is largely available for debt service and self-
financing.



- 32 -
phase, which focused on the price differentials of major products and their
effects on the economy, has recently been completed. In line with the
study's recommendations, and in conjunction with the need to pass on to
consumers the newly imposed 3% import surcharge (see para. 19 above) and the
recent depreciation of the peso, the Government plans to adjust domestic
prices of petroleum products and simultaneously reduce major differentials
among them. Action will be taken as soon as the presently volatile interna-
tional oil situation has settled down. This will help conserve public
revenues, reduce domestic market imbalances among petroleum products
(especially between diesel and gasoline), and correct signals for
petroleum-related investments.
101.      The second phase of the petroleum products study will be completed
by October 1983. This phase will analyze longer-term issues relating to
retail and ex-refinery prices, domestic demand and supply projections,
international oil price and output trends, and the appropriate refinery mix
for the Philippines. Recommendations of this phase of the study will form
the basis for future reform.
102.      Measures for Energy Conservation and Conversion.  Although more
adequate energy pricing will provide the main incentive for increasing
efficiency of energy consumption and for conversion to non-oil sources of
energy, the Government has adopted a number of programs to reinforce the
price effect. These include: monitoring of large energy users (consuming
at least 1 million liters of fuel oil equivalent a year) and auditing such
users on their request; regulating use of air conditioners in commercial
establishments; and providing education/training services for energy con-
servation. The energy saving potential of each industrial and commercial
sector has been identified and comprehensive standards of energy consump-
tions are being set. Under the new incentive system (see para. 44ff.),
incentives will continue to be provided for the manufacture of, and
investment in, energy saving equipment.
D. Program Development in Other Areas
103.      For the future, the Government intends to complete the structural
reforms currently under implementation and extend the adjustment program to
other sectors of the economy. In particular, remaining issues in energy
policy will be addressed as well as further improvements in public resource
management. In addition, agricultural policy will be reviewed and an appro-
priate reform program formulated. However, as indicated earlier, substantial
preparatory work will need to be done in all these areas in the next 12-18
months before further adjustment measures can be formulated. The Govern-
ment's plans with respect to the preparation of the next phase of its
structural adjustment program in each of the above areas are described below.
These plans are outlined in Attachment II of the Government-s Letter of
Development Policy. Part A of this Attachment lists studies for which
detailed terms of reference and a schedule of implementation have been
prepared. Part B lists broad issues, tentatively identified for study.



- 33 -
Energy Policy
104.      On the basis of the energy pricing studies mentioned in paras. 99
and 101, an action program will be formulated to adjust the structure of
power tariffs and to make appropriate changes in retail and ex-refinery
petroleum product prices. Pricing policies for geothermal steam and coal
will be studied. The overall level of energy investment will continue to be
reviewed. While emphasis will remain on the development of geothermal, coal
and hydro resources, increased attention will be given to the development of
nonconventional energy sources such as dendro-thermal, mini-hydro, coco-
diesel, and biomass, and their economic and commercial feasibility will be
studied.  The Government also plans to study the potential for cogeneration
in industrial plants, prospects of energy diversification in the transport
sector, and options for rural electrification and its financing. The need
for strengthening planning and implementation capacity of energy sector
agencies, for improving coordination among these agencies and with user
sectors, and for training of manpower will be reviewed.
Public Resource Management
105.      The balance of payments constraint facing the Philippines has
affected, and will continue to affect, resource availability for the public
sector and requires measures to improve the efficiency of public expenditure
programs. For this purpose, a study of public expenditures and their
financing will be undertaken with World Bank assistance. The study will
cover public investment as well as recurrent expenditures; in particular, it
will analyze the size and broad sectoral composition of public investment in
light of resource availability. The balance between capital and recurrent
expenditures will be re-examined to ensure efficient use and adequate
maintenance of a growing stock of public investment. The study would include
an initial overview of public nonfinancial corporations and prospects for
improving their internal cash generation. A more detailed study of these
government corporations might be undertaken subsequently. Also, a separate
study will be undertaken of government financial institutions and preferen-
tial credit allocation policies to review the role of Government in the
financial sector and assess the budgetary implications of current policies.
106.      The gradual deterioration of public revenue performance over the
last few years highlights the need for a structural improvement of the
revenue system to limit the reliance on foreign savings. A review of the
Philippine tax system will be undertaken, in particular to assess the impact
of recent fiscal reforms, e.g., the tariff realignment and the elimination
of the advance sales tax. On this basis, new tax measures might be
formulated to improve the elasticity and equity of the revenue system and to
further improve the tax administration. As a first step, a study on the
introduction of the second stage sales tax (para. 80) has been initiated;
also, a study on the rationalization of fiscal incentives granted by
agencies other than BOI has been started (para. 69).



- 34 -
Agricultural Policy
107.      As mentioned in para. 27, the overall performance of the agricul-
tural sector has been satisfactory relative to the other sectors of the
economy, and the need for structural reform is not as critical. However,
some major issues have emerged in the sector over the last few years.
First, there is a need for further diversification and promotion of
commercial export crops to increase the contribution of the sector to the
balance of payments. Second, there are strong indications that
macro-economic policies in the Philippines have discriminated against
agriculture. Past trade policy, in particular, has resulted in an average
effective protection for agricultural activities substantially below that
for manufacturing industry. Pricing and exchange rate policies have also
had a negative impact on incomes in the agricultural sector. Third, the
institutional framework for agricultural policy formulation and
implementation suffers from serious fragmentation.
108.      The Government intends to initiate studies in these areas to
arrive at a comprehensive program for agricultural policy reform.
Initially, a study will be undertaken to identify and analyze the market
distortions and imperfections that have affected the efficient allocation of
resources in the agricultural sector. This study will be an input into a
review of the agricultural incentives system which will be started in the
next few months. As in the case of the industrial incentives, this review
is expected to lead to a reform of the agricultural incentives and promotion
policies. Also, the institutional issues will be addressed. Additionial
areas for study will be identified as the agricultural policy reform program
proceeds.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Loan History
109.      The proposed loan is the second in a series of loans supporting the
Government-s structural adjustment effort. Its industrial and trade policy
components were initially identified during the preparation of the first
structural adjustment loan in 1980. At that time, the Government laid out
its industrial policy reform program for the 1980s covering the areas of:
(a) export promotion measures; (b) tariff reform and trade liberalization;
and (c) investment promotion policies. Most of the reforms in the first two
areas were initiated in 1980/81 and supported under the first loan. However,
substantial further work was needed to formulate specific policy measures in
the third area; this work was funded under the technical assistance component
of the first loan with the understanding that subsequent changes in the
investment incentives and promotion policies would be supported under



- 35 -
the second loan. In addition, it was agreed that the second loan would
support the implementation of remaining trade policy reforms. Detailed
proposals in both areas were finalized during 1982 after extensive study by
the Ministry of Trade and Industry and the Board of Investments with the
assistance of a team of consultants. Bank staff were actively involved in
this process and assisted in the formulation of the reform program. The
industrial and trade policy components of the proposed loan were pre-appraised
in November/December 1981.
110.      The energy policy and public resource management component of the
proposed loan was identified during 1981. Its basis was a joint World Bank/
Asian Development Bank survey of the Philippines' energy sector which was
conducted in May 1980. This survey reviewed the Government's energy policies
and its recently completed Energy Program for the 1980's. The findings and
recommendations of the survey were discussed with the Government in April 1981
at which time there was a broad consensus on the general direction of policy
reform in the energy sector. In December 1981, initial agreement was reached
on an energy policy program to be supported under the Bank's program of struc-
tural adjustment lending. Also, a decision was taken which specific reforms
would be implemented under the proposed second structural adjustment loan and
which areas required further study and would be supported under a subsequent
loan. The SAL II component was pre-appraised in February/March 1982.
111.      The loan was appraised in April/May 1982.  A post-appraisal mis-
sion visited the Philippines in October/November 1982. Negotiations were
held in Washington in January 1983; the Philippine delegation was headed by
His Excellency Benjamin Romualdez, Ambassador of the Philippines to the United
States. Supplementary loan data are provided in Annex III.
B. Relationship between the Proposed Loan and Policy Reforms
112.      The proposed loan would support the second phase of the Government's
medium-term structural adjustment program. The rationale for this program was
discussed in Part II above. A Letter of Development Policy (Annex IV) has
been received from the Government describing the specific measures that have
been or will be taken during this phase of the Government's structural
adjustment program. These measures, and their link to the first phase
measures supported under SAL I, are summarized in Table 1.
C. Effects of Adjustment Program
113.      As outlined in Part II, the Government's structural adjustment
program, encompassing reforms in the industrial sector, the financial sector,
the energy sector and in public resource management, is expected,in the
medium-term, to improve the allocation and efficiency of investment,
accelerate growth, limit the country-s reliance on foreign savings and reduce
the current account deficit to more sustainable levels. Initially, however,
restrictive demand management policies will need to be implemented to reduce
the balance of payments gap to a manageable level in the short term.
Projections of selected economic indicators, for both the short and medium
term, are given in Table 2.



- 36 -
Page 1 of 2
Table 1:  PHILIPPINES:  STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Program development
ontributions to                                               Actions supported                        Actions supported                            under SAL 1I for
t:ructural adjustment          Sectoral objectives                  under SAL I                             under SAL 1I                                future action
 ---------------------------------------------------------- A.   Industry  and  Trade Policies                                ---------------------------
Broadened and deepened   Agreement on industrial    Government Statement on
-onufactured export         development strategy           Industrial Policy for the
drive through:              based on the long-term         1980s.
(a) diversification of   comparative advantage
product range; and   of the Philippines.
'b) backward linkages
with domestic           ----------------------------------------- 1. Industrial Incentives and Promotion Policies ----------------------------------------
manufacturing
industries.            Reform of industrial           Actions:  Limited policy
incentives system,            action to streamline
2. Improved performance         including its adminis-        administration of fiscal
of nonexport indus-         tration, to increase           incentives and to promote
Fries through:              efficiency of investment   regional dispersal of
(a) increased output        and bring industrial           industries.
growth;                 promotion policy in line
(b) more efficient          with comparative advan,    Studies:  Comprehensive             (a) Legislation of a new BOI industrial    Study on rationalization of fis-
use of capital;         tage of the country.          review of objectives,                incentives system which will elimi-    cal incentives granted by agen-
(c) reduced capital                                        composition, and admin-             nate capital-intensive bias, promote   cies other thae BOI.
intensity; and                                        istration of industrial              labor- intensive and export-oriented
(d) greater regional                                       incentives system.                  industries and regional dispersion
dispersion.                                                                                of investment.
(b) Simplification of administrative
procedures for availment of incen-
tives to achieve greater
accessibility and automaticity.
Study:  Improvement of          (a) Introduction of improved methods for
procedures for selection            selection of activities eligible for
of industrial activities            incentives.
eligible for incentives.
(b) Implementation of new guidelines for
preparation of annual priorities
plan which lists activities eligible
for incentives.
(c) Revision of guidelines on use of
economic analysis in priority
determination.
(d) Substantial elimination of
provisions in incentives system
that restrict entry to, and limit
competition in, an industry.
Introduction of concept    Action:  Initiation of             (a) Formulation of concept paper for
of sector development         sector program for                   sector development progra.
programs for policy           textile industry.
design at the industry                                        (b) Establishment of schedule and work
level.                        Study:  Development of               program for preparation of sector
sector program concept.             development programs.
(c) Preparation of sector programs for
mechanical engineering, electronics,
food processing, and other
industries; and initiation of their
implementation.
Strengthening of insti-                                       (a) Implementation of revised organiza-
tutions.                                                           tional structure, staffing and
training programs for BOI and MTI.
Study:  Requirements for    (b) Establishment of MTI/BOI manage-
an MTI/BOI management               ment information system.
information system.
(c) Implementation of program to improve
economic, especially industrial,
statistics and strengthen NCSO.



- 37 -
Page 2 of 2
PHILIPPINES:  STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (cont'd.)
Progran development
Cnntributions to                                            Actions supported                   Actions supported under                        under SAL II for
structural adjustnent         Soctoral objectives                 under SAL I                              SAL II                                   futuro action
----------------------------------------- 2. Trade Policy ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Reduction and evening        Actions:  Legislation           (a) Adoption of ninimum 10% tariff rate
nut of protection of         adopted for staged tariff           as policy guideline.
donestic industry;           reform  (1981-85) reducing
inprovement in enport        peak tariffs to 50%;           (b) Implenentation of a plan for liber-
pr-motion.                   3-year plan adopted for             aliming  imports not covered by the
elinination of majority            3-year plan.
of inpsrt licensing;
major inprcvements in
export promotion regime.
Studies:  Taxation moos-    Legislation to elininate protective
ores to complement trade    effect of indirect tao system  through:
policy refors.
(a) removal of advance sales too;
(b) introduction of second-stage sales         Study of second-stage sales tan.
tan; and
(c) restructuring of excise taxes.
------------------------------------------------------ B.   Energy  Policy and mublic Resource Management ------------------------------------------------------
1. Reduction of oil           Agreement on strategy for                                    iovernnent Statement on Energy Policy
imports through:           energy development, con-                                     for the 1980s.
servati-o, pricing and
(a) increase and diver- taxation.
sification of
domestic energy
prod-ction; and
(b) conservation.
-------------------------------------- 1. Domestic Energy Development ------------------------------------------------------------
2. Reduced reliance of
energy sector on for-      Dotermi-ation of prior-                                      (a) Adoption of 6-year energy investment  Various technical studies with
eign savings through:    ities, sie, and phasing                                           plan and its financing in the areas   respect to rural electrifica-
of energy investments in                                         of:                                       tion; nonconventional energy
(a) improved public        the light of medium-term                                         - power generatioo  and transmission,  resources; energy conservation.
investment pro-        public resource avail-                                           - coal production,
gramming; and          ability.                                                         - nil, gas, and geothermal explora-
(b) increased public                                                                          tion  and development, and
resource nobiliza-                                                                      - nonconveetional energy.
t ion.
-------------------------------------- 2. Energy Pricing and Consercatio -------------------------------------------------------
Improvement of energy                                       (a) Increase in electricity tariffs to
demand management and                                           improve the level of self-financing
strengthening of public                                          by NPC and eliminate government
resource mobilication.                                           financial contribotu.iss to power
investment mrogran.
(b) Restructuring of retail electricity        Study of structure of poser tar-
rates in Metro Manila area.                iffs; formalatio- of action pro-
gram on this basis.
(c) Adjustment of relative diesel and          Second-phase study of petroleum
gasoline prices.                           product pricing; action program
to be formulated on this basis.
(d) Introdaction of various programs
and measures to increase (i)
efficiency of energy consumption
and (ii) conversion to non-oil
sources of energy.
------------------------------------------------------ C.  Other Areas  f Pblic Resource Manage-t --------------------------------------------------------
1. Reduced reliance on                                                                                                                    Study of public e-penditures and
foreign savings through                                                                                                                their financing, including Roy-
greater public resource                                                                                                                ernment corporations.
mobilization.
Stody of government financial
2. Improved efficiency of                                                                                                                  institutions and preferential
public empenditure                                                                                                                     credit allocation policies.
programs.
Study of tao system and admin-
istration.
Review of financial planning/
work programming/budgeting
system.
----------------------------------------------------- D.  Agricultural Policy -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. More effective resource                                                                                                                Study of market distortions/in-
atilifation  in the                                                                                                                    perfections affecting allocation
agricultural sector.                                                                                                                   of resources in agriculture.
2. Further diversification                                                                                                                Review of agricultaral incen-
and promotion of                                                                                                                       tines system and preparation of
export crops.                                                                                                                          reforms on this basis.
Revies of institutional frame-
work for agricoltural policy
formolation and implementation.



- 38 -
114.      Short-term Effects.  The Philippines- economic situation has
deteriorated sharply over the past two years because of the prolonged world
recession and the resulting slump in export markets. Faced with unsustainable
current account deficits of 7-8%O of GDP, the Government has initiated a short-
term stabilization program which is supported by an IMF standby arrangement
(para. 18). Under the program, the current account deficit is projected to
fall to $2.5 billion in 1983 and to about $2.0 billion in 1985 while
declining gradually to 6.2% and 4.0% of GDP, respectively. Given the
unfavorable prospects for an early recovery of Philipines- exports, this is
likely to result in a slower growth of investments and imports. Since the
structural reforms introduced thus far will require several years to bring
about the necessary improvements in efficiency and productivity, the growth
rate of the economy will improve only marginally and is not likely to exceed
5% per annum during the 1983-85 period.
Table 2:  PROJECTIONS OF SELECTED ECONOMIC INDICATORS
UNDER ALTERNATIVE ASSUMPTIONS /a
1986-90
W/o    With
1976-80     1981-85        str.   str.
adj.   adj.
Growth Rates (Constant Prices)
GDP at market prices                           5.9         3.4         4.0    6.5
Consumption                                    5.2         3.1         3.2    6.0
Manufacturing production                       6.5         4.2         4.5    7.7
Exports of GNFS                               10.0         5.2         6.5    8.5
Nontraditional manufactured exports           32.1/b       9.0         8.0   11.5
Imports of GNFS                                8.0         2.1         6.0    7.1
Fuel imports                                   2.3        -2.5         3.5    1.0
Other Indicators (End of Period)
Fixed investment (, GDP)                     25.6         27.7        27.0   28.0
Current account deficit (% GDP)                6.8         4.0         7.5    2.9
Nontrad. manuf. exports (% exports GNFS)   26.8           35.2        36.5   40.1
Fuel imports (% imports GNFS)                24.0         20.0        23.0   16.0
MLT debt service (% exports G + S)            18.1/c      25.6        30.5   22.5
/a These projections are intended to illustrate the structural adjustment
process. They are based on various estimates and assumptions about domestic
and external parameters which could be invalidated by subsequent develop-
ments.
/b Growth rate inflated due to low base.
/c 1981.



- 39 -
115.      Medium-Term Effects.  In the medium-term, the structural
improvements in the allocation and efficiency of resource use should make it
possible to restore economic growth without causing unacceptable strains for
the balance of payments. Whereas total investment would remain constant at
27-28% of GDP, output growth is expected to accelerate to 6.5% during 1986-90
mainly as a result of an improved performance of the manufacturing sector,
the growth of which would be raised from 4.2% to 7.7% as a result of the
policy reforms aimed at the restructuring of domestic industries and the
expansion of manufactured exports.
116.      At the same time, the manufacturing sector would play an important
role in improving the structure of the balance of payments. Nontraditional
manufactured exports would grow at a rate of 11-12% per annum raising the
overall trend growth rate of the country's exports to 8.5% during the second
half of the decade, and reducing the share of export earnings (GNFS) coming
from primary products to less than half. With respect to imports, the re-
structuring of the manufacturing sector would gradually reduce the country's
reliance on foreign-produced investment goods and intermediate inputs because
of improved efficiency and the development of domestic substitutes. A major
reduction in import elasticity would take place as a result of the govern-
ment's energy reform program. Fuel imports would be held down to the 1985
level through further conservation measures and through accelerated domestic
energy production. The share of fuel in total imports of GNFS would fall from
20% in 1985 to 16% in 1990. Overall, import growth would be limited to an
average of 7.1% per annum during 1986-90.
117.      The acceleration of export growth relative to import growth, in
combination with a reduced reliance on foreign savings through improved public
revenue and private savings efforts, can be expected to keep the current
account deficit of the balance of payments to manageable proportions. While
gradually increasing from $2.0 billion in 1985 to $3.0 billion in 1990, the
deficit is projected to remain at a sustainable level of around 3% of GDP
throughout the second half of the decade. Gross external capital requirements
are expected to increase from $3.1 billion in 1985 to $4.5 billion in 1990
because of the considerable repayment burden of debt contracted by the country
during the 1970s. Nevertheless, the debt service burden should remain
manageable; it is forecasted to remain in the range of 22 to 25% during the
second half of the 1980s, due largely to the country's successful export
performance.
118.      The structural adjustment measures would also improve the labor
intensity of investment and thus create many new job opportunities. In the
manufacturing sector in particular, employment elasticity would increase as
a result of the higher share of (labor-intensive) nontraditional exports in
manufacturing value added and the greater labor intensity of domestic indus-
tries on account of the reorientation of trade and investment incentives.
Moreover, the greater efficiency of investment would limit the need for



- 40 -
substantial additional domestic savings and allow consumption to grow
at a rate of 6.0% during 1986-90. The policy reforms would thus make an
important contribution to poverty alleviation.
119.      In the absence of structural adjustment measures, growth would be
seriously limited by balance of payments and creditworthiness constraints.
The growth rate of GDP would recover only to about 4% during 1986-90. The
average annual growth of manufacturing would reach only 4.5% during the second
half of the decade primarily because of increasing constraints imposed by high
cost and inefficient production for a limited domestic market. Lower export
growth, in particular of nontraditional manufactured products, combined with a
higher import elasticity with respect to industrial inputs and energy would
increase the current account deficit to over 7% of GDP in 1987. Despite lower
overall growth and borrowing, the debt service ratio would rise to over 30%
and limit further borrowing.
D. Benefits and Risks
120.      Benefits.  The main benefits of the loan are in the form of policy
adjustments described above which are expected to lead to improvements in
the efficiency and allocation of investment and to improvements in the
balance of payments over the medium term. Estimates of the quantitative
impact of these benefits were provided in Part IV C. The current reforms,
together with those implemented under the first phase of the Government's
structural adjustment program, will also be important considerations in
commercial lenders' assessment of the country's creditworthiness and thus
help maintain the Philippines' access to funds from international capital
markets on reasonable terms. The loan will also provide quick-disbursing
foreign exchange at favorable maturities which will help the country meet
the substantial financing requirements that it faces during the adjustment
period.
121.      Risks.  The Government's structural adjustment program has three
major risks. The first arises from the difficulties in estimating the
quantitative effect of the policy reforms on the economy. The projections
illustrate, on the basis of one set of reasonable assumptions, what the
policy program might achieve during the decade. However, neither the
magnitude nor the timing of the long-term benefits and transitional disrup-
tion can be predicted with certainty. Hence, although the ultimate benefits
from the reforms are estimated to be considerable, the length and difficulty
of the adjustment process are less clear.
122.      The second main risk to a successful implementation of the reform
program arises from uncertainties regarding international economic condi-
tions. They could affect the growth prospects for Philippine exports and
the scope for foreign borrowings. The external environment could thus
adversely affect the pace of implementation of the adjustment program and
delay the realization of its benefits.



- 41 -
123.      The third major risk relates to the timely and continued imple-
mentation of the adjustment program.  The trade liberalization program
started in 1980 is already meeting with considerable resistance from the
private sector, and this resistance will undoubtedly increase over time as
the effects of the additional policy reforms are felt and if the present
recession continues. Continued full support for the Board of Investments
and the Ministry of Trade and Industry will, therefore, be required at the
highest levels of Government to ensure that the program is carried out in
all its details.
124.      There are, however, a number of features that reduce the above
risks. First, measures are being taken to offset some of the adverse short-
term effects of the structural adjustment program. For example, a flexible
exchange rate policy will be maintained to protect the balance of payments
to avoid pressure to revert to high tariffs and import controls; also,
industrial rehabilitation and rationalization programs are being implemented
to help firms adjust to the more competitive environment. Second, the
reforms are being announced in advance and implemented in stages over a
number of years in order to provide the private sector with an opportunity
to prepare for the required transition. Finally, the Government has so far
shown a strong commitment to the reform program, both by providing large
staff and time inputs to prepare the policy measures and by implementing the
first phase of the structural adjustment program under extremely adverse
economic conditions. This commitment is likely to continue in the future.
E. Loan Amount
125.      The proposed loan of $302.3 million (including the capitalized
front-end fee) would finance about 4% of the Philippines' merchandise
imports and meet about 8% of the gross external capital requirements of the
country in 1983. The amount of the proposed loan was determined on the
basis of the size of the Bank's lending program for the Philippines and in
view of the country's other priority needs for which Bank assistance has
been requested.
F. Disbursement and Procurement
126.      The proposed loan would be disbursed in two tranches and is
expected to be fully disbursed within one year of loan effectiveness. The
first tranche of $202.3 million would be available upon loan effectiveness.
The second tranche of $100 million would become available about six months
later. Disbursement of the second tranche would be contingent on satis-
factory progress with respect to (i) continued implementation of the first
phase of the Government's structural adjustment program, in particular the
tariff reform and import liberalization program; and (ii) the measures listed
in Attachments I and II A of the Government's Letter of Development Policy
(draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1).



- 42 -
127.      The entirely satisfactory arrangements that were made for the
administration of the import component of SAL I would be continued for SAL II.
The Government of the Philippines would be the Borrower. The Central Bank
would continue to be responsible for maintaining the loan account and for
submitting withdrawal applications and supporting documentation to the Bank.
128.      Disbursement and procurement procedures have been designed to
ensure the rapid drawdown of loan proceeds. The loan would reimburse 100%
of the foreign exchange cost of eligible imports on the basis of evidence that
they were paid for and imported after loan signing. Imports financed from
other sources would not be eligible for Bank financing. Expenditures for
goods procured under invoices for US$25,000 equivalent or less would not be
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the loan.
129.      Both private and public sector imports would be eligible for
financing. All purchases, both public and private, under contracts of
US$5.0 million equivalent or more each will be procured through international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Contracts for the
procurement of goods by the private sector estimated to cost less than
US$5.0 million equivalent each will be awarded on the basis of normal
commercial practices of the purchaser. Public sector imports under contracts
below US$5.0 million equivalent will be procured in accordance with standard
government practices which are acceptable to the Bank. Certain commonly
traded commodities may be purchased through price quotations available from
organized international commodity markets.
G. Monitoring of Actions
130.      To monitor the implementation and impact of the structural adjust-
ment program, the Government has established an interagency committee. The
committee is composed of representatives of the agencies implementing the
program and of the core ministries. The committee will assemble and
evaluate sectoral and macro-economic information concerning the progress and
impact of the ongoing reforms in the areas of industry, trade, finance, and
energy. Several of the agencies represented on the committee have already
instituted monitoring programs; e.g., the Tariff Commission and the CentraLl
Bank are monitoring imports on a quarterly basis; a management information
system in the MTI/BOI has been set up to monitor the impact of the new
industrial incentives system; and NCSO is being strengthened to improve the
country's industrial statistics.
131.      All policy measures that would be supported by the proposed loan,
as stated in Attachment I of the Governments- Letter of Development Policy,
have been substantially adopted.  Detailed terms of reference for the six
studies mentioned in Attachment II A of the Letter of Development Policy have
been agreed during negotiations . The Government would submit to the Bank, by
October 31, 1983, a report evaluating the progress made in the implementation
of its structural adjustment program (including the first phase measures



- 43 -
initiated in 1980) since loan approval. This report would serve as a basis
for a mid-term review (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.03) which, in turn,
would form the basis for the release of the second tranche of the loan (see
para. 126 above). Since several of the reform measures are being implemented
in stages, the Bank would, as in the case of SAL I, continue to monitor their
scheduled implementation through its regular macro- and sectoral policy
dialogue with the Government. In the same way, the Bank would also review
with the Government progress made in the studies mentioned in Attachment II B
of the Letter of Development Policy. The Government is committed to submit
to the Bank a report on the execution of the adjustment program upon full
disbursement of the loan (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
H. Cooperation with the IMF
132.      As in the case of SAL I, work on the proposed SAL II has been
carefully coordinated with the IMF, particularly in the areas of fiscal,
monetary, and exchange rate policy. An IMF staff member joined the SAL II
preparation/preappraisal mission, and another IMF staff member participated
in the SAL II appraisal mission. The SAL II post-appraisal mission over-
lapped with the IMF mission which negotiated the standby arrangement for
1983. A Bank staff member participated in this IMF mission. Draft
documents and views were exchanged at every stage in the processing of the
proposed loan. The IMF staff is in full agreement with the SAL II program
which is complementary to that supported by the 1983 standby agreement.
PART V - OTHER WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TIE PHILIPPINES
133.      As of September 30, 1982 the Philippines had received 87 Bank loans
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $3,463.52 million and
six IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. IFC investments totalled
$154.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed and
outstanding is currently about 11%, and its share in total debt service is
about 8%. These ratios are expected to be about 13% and 12%, respectively,
by 1985. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans, and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1982, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
134.      During the 1970s, Bank lending to the Philippines has been
characterized by a rapid increase in volume, fairly stable sectoral shares,
and considerable changes in focus and approach within sectors. The volume
of World Bank lending to the Philippines has increased substantially from an
average of about $90 million per year in FY71-75 to an average of $450 mil-
lion in FY78-82. Although the Bank has financed projects in virtually all
sectors of the economy, particular emphasis has been given to agriculture,
which has accounted for almost one-third of total Bank/IDA lending. Lending
for industry, transportation, power and social sectors followed in declining
order of size. Pronounced changes in sectoral allocation took place only



- 44 -
within infrastructure as lending for transportation and power declined in
the second half of the 1970s, while lending for water supply and urban
development was initiated during this period.
135.      In agriculture, lending initially focused on expanding the
irrigation system, credit programs, and other services to support rice pro-
duction. More recently, efforts have been made to diversify agricultural
production through loans for treecrops, livestock, and fisheries, and to
assist low-income areas through integrated rural development pro iects.
Agriculture and rural development will continue to account for the largest
share of lending, with emphasis on food production and programs to increase
the incomes of the rural poor and rehabilitate existing cash crops. In
addition, agricultural policy studies are underway or planned which will
assess the scope for structural adjustment in the sector and provide a basis
for linking sectoral policies and future lending operations.
136.      In the industrial and financial sectors, lending has increasingly
been in support of policy reforms which are part of the Government s
structural adjustment program. During the 1970s, the Bank concentrated on
strengthening individual development finance institutions and on providing
for the credit needs of small and medium industries. In the last two years,
however, industrial and financial lending has been broadened to support the
implementation of needed policy reforms. As described above, a first
structural adjustment loan was made in September 1980 in support of trade
and industrial reforms. A textile sector loan was approved in May 1982, to
rehabilitate a sector that will be particularly affected by industrial
policy changes. A metalworking industry loan will support a sector in which
the country in the futare will have a comparative advantage. Improvements
in financial sector policies were the basis for the May 1981 Industrial
Finance Loan, which also introduced a new institutional concept to broaden
the reach of Bank lending by channelling loans through an "apex" unit in the
Central Bank. We intend to continue support to this institutional approach
to development financing. In addition, the Bank has continued to provide
increased financial and technical assistance to small and medium industries
through the recently approved SMI loan.
137.      In the energy sector, sector work and the structural adjustment
program initiated under the proposed loan provide the basis for future
lending operations. While previous Bank lending focused on the power
subsector - through seven loans for power generation/transmission and one
loan for rural electrification - the Bank now seeks to support a broader
range of activities in the energy sector. This would include exploration
and development of indigenous energy resources, provision of supporting
infrastructure, strengthening of institutions, and formulation of further
policies to restrain energy demand. To address energy policy and institu-
tional issues and to provide the framework for project lending, the Bank
intends to provide a combination of structural adjustment lending and
subsector loans. In addition to the recent coal exploration loan, the Bank



- 45 -
plans to assist the accelerated development of geothermal, hydro, non-
conventional energy sources and possibly oil and gas as well as continue the
financing of the rural electrification program.
138.      While overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in the
Philippines has been satisfactory, disbursements have been slower than anti-
cipated. The disbursement ratio (amount disbursed during the fiscal year as
compared to the total undisbursed at the beginning of the fiscal year)
declined marginally from about 18% in FY78 to about 16.7% in FY82./l The
Bank-wide average was 21.5% in FY82; the comparable ratios for Thailand and
Morocco were 24.4% and 13.7% respectively in the same year./2 Implementation
problems increased in the late 1970s, reflecting in part administrative
problems caused by high inflation and tight budget constraints. They also
resulted from changes in the scope of the Bank's lending operations: a
substantial increase in the number of projects, new areas of lending, an
emphasis on institution-building, and efforts to reach specific target
groups and deprived regions have all made implementation a more demanding
task than in the past. In recognition of growing implementation problems, the
Government and the Bank have instituted a process of joint Country Implemen-
tation Reviews. Four reviews have been held between May 1980 and March 1983;
the procedure is now fully operational and will be continued on a regular
basis. As a direct result of these reviews we have noted significant
improvements in government regulations and procedures governing budget
releases and contracting. Another issue which has been extensively
discussed in these meetings is problems and delays in the preparation and
processing of disbursement withdrawal requests. The Government has recently
decided to establish a small disbursement unit in the National Economic and
Development Authority, and the staff of the unit have been sent to the Bank
for training.
139.      This is the sixth loan to the Philippines to be presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year. Loans for Rural Development of the
Central Visayas and for Highways have been appraised and are scheduled for
Board presentation in the coming months.
Part VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
140.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section IV (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being
distributed separately. Proposed special conditions for disbursements are
described in Annex III.
/1 Excludes disbursements under the first Structural Adjustment Loan. If
included, the ratio increases to 21.8%.
/2 Thailand and Morocco are useful as comparators as they have similar per
capita income levels and Bank Group lending programs.



- 46 -
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
141.      I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
142.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 1 , 1983
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
47 -                                  Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            300.0                                  MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     109.0               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  150.0        250.0     690.0                  890.1                  1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      146.8       272.3      329.4                  701.7                  1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27902.0      37540.0   49049.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 30.3          32.9      36.2                   32.4                    65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        76.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         126.7
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        93.0        125.1     159.2                  255.9                    35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    282.4         361.0     438.2                 1748.0                    92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.6        45.5       44.1                   39.9                    39.7
15-64 YRS.                          52.4         51.6      52.8                   56.8                    56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0          2.9       3.1                    3.3                     4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.1          3.0       2.7                    2.3                     2.4
URBAN                               4.2          3.8       3.6                    3.9                     3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.5         38.5      34.1                   31.8                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      14.6          9.8       7.3                    9.8                     8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.3          2.7       2.2                    2.0                     2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        191.7     650.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           2.0      37.0                   36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          102.0       101.0      113.0                  115.6                   110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    96.6        97.2      106.7/c                106.4                   108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           45.0        47.5       52.0/c                 54.4                    66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        16.6         18.7      20.4/c                 13.9                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      13.6          7.9       4.5                    6.7                     5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    52.8          59.0      63.5                   59.8                    64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           105.8         75.0      54.7                   63.7                    64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         24.0      43.0/d                 32.0                    65.6
URBAN                                ..           ..      66.0/d                 51.9                    78.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      33.0/f                 20.5                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         57.0      56.0/d                 37.7                    59.3
URB,AN                               ..           ..      76.0/-                 65.7                    75.3
RURAL                                ..           ..      44.0/d                 24.0                    30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               ..           ..    2809.4/c               8540.4                  1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       3840.0    3173.l/c               4829.4                  1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1229.3        838.6     568.7                 1047.5                   477.4
URBAN                             547.3        400.6        .-                  651.6                   679.8
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                 2597.6                  1903.4
ADMISSIOUS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        30.0         ..                  27.0                     27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.8          5.9
URBAN                                ..          6.2
RURAL                                ..          5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          2.3
UREAS                                ..          2.1        ..
RURAL                                ..          2.4        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              16.5         23.2      36.0
URBAN                                ..         60.4      82.0
RURAL                                ..          6.8      10.0



ANNEX I
-.48 -                                   Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  95.0        114.0      98.0                    96.2                    104.3
MALE                  98.0        115.0        ..                    99.8                    106.4
FEMALE                93.0        113.0         ..                   92.1                    103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  26.0         51.0      63.0                    37.6                     41.3
MALE                  28.0         52.0         ..                   41.1                      40.4
FEMALE                25.0         49.0        ..                    34.1                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  14.3            8.9/e    33.9/c                  20.8                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             35.9         28.6      31.2/c                  35.5                     29.9
SECONDARY                           26.9/f       33.0      35.6/-                  25.0                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         71.9         82.6      75.0                    73.1                     79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.1          7.4       8.8/l                   9.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          21.5        40.0       44.0                   116.5                    270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.4         10.7      20.9                    37.6                    107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   17.4         13.4      20.3                    53.7                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6/h           ..       7.5/d                   2.8                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    11117.5        13730.4   17412.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    34.2         33.1      32.3                    33.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               61.0         53.0      46.0                    52.2                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  15.0         16.0      17.0                    17.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 39.8         36.6       35.5                   38.5                      33.6
MALE                                  52.1         48.6      47.6                    50.5                      50.4
FEMALE                                27.4         24.4      23.2                    26.6                      16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2          1.3        1.3                    1.1                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         25.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           54.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          5.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         14.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     260.0                   194.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..     195.0                   155.1                   184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     266.0                   178.2                   518.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     200.0                   164.9                   371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      32.0                    24.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..      41.0                    41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
la   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1975; /e 1972; /f 1962; /g 1976; /h 1958.
May, 1982



49                                                  MQ~~~~~ANEX I
Page 3 of 5
tgpoiniii OP SOCIAL IRfOICfBOM
Iet-:  Although the data are draw  from source  genraly judged the sen   ather-i-tv   sad reliable, it should else be noted than they -y tot be intte-
nationally roqtarblr becaus  of the lack of --md-rdted definitione ed concepts need by differret onurien  fe collecting the date.  The data see  an
beheien,  -uful to describe orders of sgnitnde, indicate treds, and cbhratrtae cetain major differences betwee  coun.trie..
The refereot  grop  ore  III the        . n .r.outry group of the nobject  -cutry end (2) e cou..try grou.p with noseebac bigb-r      7 ovrg   moe.  tba  th. c...ntry  trnnp
efhtI  ubj ect  -oontryfoe t tt          tb I.com      Oil iPtptrcr" group  tber  "Middle Inco.-   -torh Africa ned tfiddle cMat" lguobesen becaus  of stronger
ucce-clcuelaffcitec . I  the refernc  groop dote the  -ev-rge  are population seightd arich-ise              means for .-h   dic-to  and  hb-w  ely  hbe.
majority of the... cccies  t    tgou chn  at  fcr the1 indicalto.  Sinceth: .be .overge ofcnerena g the irdicarora dependn oc the avilability of data
ee  i   otctfon   eco   ot h             riedin roluttag  _vnrgr  of ore iodccrt   n the.  Th...  -t-rge  are only oucfeltocos.poring its name of
one iedic-oZ u   tine emeg the cooc.try eud ref--e-ce gropt.
090  (ctuao..duqb                                                                                  ooetnPoeK ectepitul fed - total, orben, and inel - Popolatfon  (total.
c.toI - Tocol  -urfccaree cmrin kg Isod urea end icleod  -arrr; 1979 dntu.                       obene  end rau)  iided by  hbe,lripect tien coberIf boupiru1 beds
doricoltora1 - EatiIete of  trclus   esound cenporurily or pernenstly                            e_iluble in public endIpriont   enrolndI             cialierd hcupinel snd in-
for cret.p  yanor-. sarhec and kitcbcn gerd---  or to lie follou; 1979 deiu.                   hobllirotionce-t-rn.  fortleetuliaume t  per_uneoly utafed
by or leant cn-  phystciu.  Etatbliuhmentu providing principuly cso
itfN tcIMT fi)-   rpocoiaeriteatcretartpren c                                       l-dLe1 core are nor Included.  Riihaptl.bo.1,  cid  health
ccted by ner _onerien mthod en ecrtd BnbI..u 5197-8i hIn.                ;  A98                 n   rie   etr   otpraetynefdt     phyuiie  fbn  bya
1970. ned 1980 data.                                                                             medIcu nituot,  Iume  niwfe, et. hich ofe  ic-petient ccun
detion ned pro-ide u limited macge of medical fuciliti-w   Poe  _taI-
ENERGYl CONSUMfPTION PER CAPITA - eAune1 coneoptito of cortcial ecrgy (cou1                         tical prpene. orbo  bonpituls include teOn pr i.cipaI/g-t         I hospirols.
eod ligoire, p-troeo,  -aturo  9o end hydro,  ouclear..  end geotbhml elc-                        and coral bnplrituI,  n-u  or r-u  bospituln ned medics1 and maternity
tticity ) to lilogren   of coal oqtoel_ent pert npico; 1916. 1970, eod 1979                      cetr.Specialined heart ila ore inelodd only nede  total.
date.                                                                                          Admianon  pe guitL  Bed - Trnoue  of edminaiou to or diachegen
from houpitl  doed by the nobte  of beda
POPILATIONI AD,t VITAL STATISTICS
Toa  Poroleioc.' fid-Or-  (thooaaodw   - Ma of July 1; 1960, 1970, end i980                H0OUS5
detu.                                                                                         Aveetge Sier of fooebold (pcrerosper houehod  -  oa.oru,ad meal-
Uruo  .o..ec  (..rceor of trial) - tei. of I'llo  Itotota  popoletion;                           A heu..ehold conln o.f A group of indit id_l   nb  aer  ivin   qeatern
di1fferct  efioiriov   of-obenarr.  Iapeffect co-putability of date                             aed their  elt me.I..  A bou-der or lodger may or may n   ho  oclodd in
eacg co.utrica; 1960. 1970, sod 196  date.                                                    tbe ho-hbod.forc actintcl purpnen
fouute  Poe ctions                                                                       Averag  nete  of  .ro  ce  tooa - tta, rbeu.. .ud rIr i-               erg   tm
Ponltocl  ee  2.000 -   .orrnt pFueto    roetoo        br head on 1980hro   euc   e   oti   i   rbn   n   oe   cuidoeeraa
total popu.aio   byet ned ne  end their secclfty  nod fetility cee.delligu, reupectiv-Y.   -niltgnenlde not-permanent't niaturs
Projection paucenfrmtltY rnn  opine of thre  loenaon                                            ouI Id put.
lcglie rpe tucyatbirh  norosog   it  cuntynpeceiteinom                           Acceuu to~Edlect`icity (percent of dnllingn(-  otl uban,adcos-
levl,oc  female lif  rpe-eny crbilising at 77.5 yeer.  Trhe pare-                            Conati.oca1 dclliog. with rie_triciyi  liciog q--ectern                   . .g
_totm f f f- clc    ar  lohv   hrelvu                   uoogdecline, it   o.f  -otol  urher. aod  -ore  dnIEl og -eP-cttoely.
Eah coo_fyind th.. uuuigord one of these Pice conbi-atiou of mattulity                 EDUCATION
ar  fr-iility ltrods for prjcto             P..ro...                                       Adjonta.d Eccoll-c Rt ieio
Stati ..co ryclto   - Ic antu.t itonary yopuletioo  ch-r  in ucgrot.h cioc                    Primary noboo1 - ttlmlood fomale - Irons totl, aria end female
the hirch roce is eqe  to tbe .deat, rte.uc  aloe thrae 9 P1troturer.-                         enrolineut of ull ogen ar th  primary leve  es perceotagu of renpeottee
_ai_ coontuot.  itoq in acievd   tl  afo Yr                  ..ic    cr   dolc topiur   eho-age poulrin; normally ioolodenchidr ngdbl
iheoreplecamen It lanel. of oir net reprodoctict rate.  hnbr  each gecernico                  yeuru hut edjouted for ditffect lengthn ofeyrimry educa tio;f.r
of __me  _eyIce  itueli reactly.   h  u.tacionr   op to tierecutrien nub neiverso  odocotioc  ncro11art maY eceed 100 reecen t
acmcdcthe hauia of the projoccod chsr -ctrcic  of thei popuu-oc                         since as  pop    ore  .alo  or  .hove the of ica  nobl ege.
So  hryear_ 20SfO, and the rat  of decline of fetciiiryrecccornpluc-lodrtnho-                                      ttl   aeedfemale - Computed an ahoe; secondaer
set local.                                                                                    edocai.-tioce  Iiesc        .eot fwryerar  cf spproved prisry i-n-rction;
Year otetloecy porcia io iu  eached - The year whec  trot io.ery pnpuletioc               ycoden goerl v..         tioal!o  teahetr   tginrctwnfrpil
nitoil be.r.h.. nclly of 12 to 17 ycera of ago; corresyonderce  -ourne  see ge..rsIly
-  Id-year popolacior Per oq-e  kilowlete  fill hbrotate) of                   Vocationl_ nr            (Par  (-rcc  of serod-e)    Vocetione.l icutitution..
ttlae;1960  19701 ud 0197  date                                                      io d   teec          tdoaril  oroterprogrn  nhicbi,  opernte indepeod-
.rr no  Am. aricultrelIled - Conpoted on aton  Icrugiolteulled                          etyoandepar_taroca           i of  neoderytouiorn
ol;10.1970 end 19~79data                                                             Pcpil-tnacltr ratio    polmarv, -d  -ecodary-Toontdtetildn
y.Ocnlti-t Age Strcctoo   (pFert) _ Childreo  (0-14 yeero(, worilog-aga (15-                     pim_y end u_oodary levela divided by c-ber  of tea..chr  it the
64 prom,,  nod retirad,(h5 Yearn end c)    p-retatgon rf mld-ytar popo-                        coreapoodiog leoein.
lalc   96.17,an   90dua                                                               di lteracy  --o (rPcot    Lieteruc  odu1tu(ble tored  ed write)
Poroletlot Grouc  7tat  frercectd)-ton - Acnei growt  -e-e  of itotl mid-                        a.nay...ac.age  of to-l adult popalatior aged 10 year. ..dovr
Yea  Populsiloc for 1950-01. 191-71. cod 1975-00.
ieioou  fo  '191160-Al 191.-70. Iod  908.Pau..teo- Corn 1(~pethnadppeco-                                                                     Pashoercart coprsemo
Crd hittc   per theu..n.ld  -   utAl live biihu pcr nboa...cd of aid-year                   caIett   otte  eight Prrn...  ecldosooce,h Areen
Ppopulation  16. 1977. nod 1980 data,                                                          nilittayohiln
Crude Death gate (per cho..od).    Aco-I deachn per thocuo..d  of mid-year                     Iadio cecrivera (Per thuod popuaiocI) - All cypen of rcivrferdio
1poulacico; 1910. 1970, an,d 1991 deta.                                                        broedeonin to gecerl..  publi            ... th adIofPopolotin; oocldau-
Croo  Eeyrud 'oto   Rate-hAv.trga oob_r of deogh.ter  I wonc sill hear io                        lioeonad r.eieiter  ic c.ooceie  and ic yeecn  hb.. regintretion of  .udi.
her  on,o-   reprodnotice poriod if uSe   yelec t   -oec  uga--npeciftc  fe-                   trot we ain effet; data for receo  yer- may not he romporeble since
ruy   o  en  cannly floe-year a...Eae  codiog ic 1960, 1970, eI   980                   ntcutrienabo1iiucd lic.enato.i8
rely PIanoi. in-hoceptor, Aco..aI (tbo_uodn( - A-ou.l  -b-r of uccptor                         TVBecricer(par t,,.houned popolatioc) - TV recivorn  for broadca..t to
of hith-coreol  evicn codo acepiersof ntictol fonily ylt...iig progrec        t.gnrlplcpe  thou  nd  pplaic;oclnde   l aicron-d  V receivers
Pually  loociuginern  pereeooof maried Led   d n)- Pectige of maried                    inco-ecrinn ond in yearn  ben rag         trion of TV net. no  iw effect.
nee   f ehil-=alg  g  (.11544 year) abc 000 hirth-coctro1  devices to                    Beaue Ciraaior (Par thou....d rplo)-Shonueth ter- geoir-
publication denotedprary  torecorIng general  nw.It in coniderd
FODD AND tfflTiITlN                                                                                to he "daily" if itappeere at laow.t foor ti-r  A we.k
ludoc of Pood Prdaction cper Co.pita (1A-P-100) - lode  ofPar caPita enoc"l                    Come- An .o   Attuduace Par Copita P peYTu-Bn-    on .  the oute  of
prdcto ,o   l  foo   omditien.!Po1     cinecldn6eden9edIoicenweddrigtefer  icc ioding edninnion. to driv-in cineara
iw on caleodaryeor hank.  Coiditia   cover pimayodnd (e.g   ogdco                   and eickite .I dneica.   .y.
inetead of nogu) which ore edihle ned  -ott0ciro-  (e.g. coffee und
taaeM     e ldd).  Agggt  pend= tio. of each ...u..Y in be-d 00                         L.ABOR FORCE
_atoa  ..vrug  prodacr price sighta; 1961-65. 1970, cod 1980 duta.                          Total Labor FCore  (th-c.a.odn) - Bonosicolly active p-rnow, ioclcding
yar c.Pi,. tary of elrm   (p-eceo of recuiremencat) - Compoird foe                               are-oceodoepoa   utreldo   oswow    cd-nto  etc..
eorrgy om eqlaeoc :of net fcod wupplia aveilable it ecr..rty per capita                        cvrigpoplaio  of1al  geu.  Befinitlona S  varo  coon lere  ore
per day.  Avalabirouple   compiu  d-matic prodccvlee, ipyri t ea                               oe...paIht    r   1961190  acdT 1980. date
root    h e   oha .gin o stck.  tat au,ppi tee cc  ld  acid  fead,  -edn,               Pe-le (pertct) - F.-I. 1eorforce an p-rcorge of total Iab eforce.
P"'colirn' aed'in feud Proecen_og,  uod   a    in dlcibeioc            tBquire-               Agrieituro (pere-) - Laho-frce iv  oel-ug, f--nty, hooting  Io
oecca  _ero  intimaed by FA0 homed o   hytlgiu   erdn for ooma-1 t                               fiobiog  u y__eetegr of tota  luhor force; 1960. 1970 und 19f0 data.
ciyodhat  connidtriegcole-c-ro.col comporatar,-body  erighn,  oge                      lodancry (perorotf - labo  focI       vmno,corclv    aoacrn
en   o  inc ihecco   oual       ned ulloeg 10Preect forwntt           t                   sod coctricity, water an  get.  a        i reneg   f toallhe   ore
houehold ic-n; 1961-hO, 1970 ca ,.1977 data._   o1961, 197  enI                                                    90ae
Poe aPSt. _upply ci ceatei (9m  retday) -                    _P_rc    onet of por capita       fa-licipacio   E=c  (1parort) - tota, sale, and female - Po.tiipoticn  or
..c aply of food Per day.  Btopl ffo   ndfodc  eho.Be-ocielipy eaten ore coputd - total, male, and finle  eho  foc At
qclrm__t  for al 11      vro  ontaticohed by coDA proide for teti-n                            yere--gru of total, male uv  famaa  oplavonofoi  af- r                   -pe  i-ly;
allowooee of 6  grouc  f cocelprove"per day eId 77 grom  of animal ecd               1960, 1970,..ed 1980 date.  These ar  boned 00 Ii.0tpactic ipation rtatr
polr pecao  of chich 10 gr-    hould ho a-len  proccic.  intoed-                               roicio-g-eowrurr  of the yopolotioc. sod long tine  treed.A
uruoe lower that oh-u  of 705rt   ftoa    rtI                 3  1geeo                      tow  nt iatn  re ten neite..eI ceuree.CP
ennlprouclo asacavrgo fee the enrld, propoun.d by PA1 it the Third                       fEcoenic, epccdecv ratio  - ratio  of pplation  -der 15 etd A5 and oe
Wo-ld Food corvey; 1961-65, :970 and 1977 data,                                                tc the total labor force.
P"c"rite Pro...in "oPly from eisel ed puloe - Poocol ..pp ly of food de-
riced iron onminnd pl    io gr.s  per day; 191-65 . 1970 end 1977 date.                    INOMf DISTRIUTeONt
Childi (Ige, 1-4) Benth Bate (pee rhou-d) - Aacu-l drecha per cbet nad lo                      P-er togr of Private Incom  (both iw oath and kind) - Reorived by rieheat
agr gro..1-Y'er    to  hi!ldr    io thia aE. group, for sent dev_lep log  Ioc                     prcent. rich-u  20 poroo...t  pooret 20 perceo. sod po-as  40 percent
frito date dervdio   iftcba;1960, 1970 nod 1990 datu.                                          of  hoonh1da.
HALTH.y                                                                                        POVEOOTY TAiLT  GROgUPS
L1cr OErc-a...Y at Birth (vearo)  A--uege ocebre of yecra of life rec-iniog                    The follosto.g e-tinetccaar   vvyeprutae              oe  of poverYIven
at1 birch;1960. 191O end 1980 dt.ad sheuld he interprtetd with couiderblec-ioc.
Infao B alty "Yt  (earl~l thocoond) - Ao_u  de-tha of infantn  ndre one Year                  fsvlmated Akuolate Po--ty Incom  Level (IUS! Per ..pita) -urha  and cocal1
of age per tbhno  liehrh;160. 1970 cod 1980 data.                                                        PO_-it   poe tySco.,  ha.li  ca  incm   ee  heIow nhic      cia
Aceru  to lair Woter (crecroc of poocation) - tocal, urhec, and ror-  - Nu-                     oa-itionelly adeqnete dirt Plus  ... euoialno-fn  eeqni-net  is vet
her of, Peoe(total. _rbc, and rural) with reuoneble accent to aafe                             affordable.
eni sPply (Sociedas crestedaufe noted  or ourreaced hoc cnccnonlotad                      ,omatd Relative Poverty Income leve  (US0 err torira) -ube   androol-I
outr-h an  hec from protectedhrhin,arre d bantrywln)e                                       iRa,:l relaiv,e poverttySoorlvlI  on-hir,              faeaeprcpt
petootags oftheit rspecricepoplociau.   n anorbao aea uablc                    ponoma  incme  f th  coetry.irbn leel i.dervedfromthe  ars
fonetek1 1 or~ ntedpo   lctd  onsore then281   --c fron a heone maY helee   ith ndjnetmet foe higher cost of llivisg in Mhnra..
cosidered sa brio   wtin     reasoma..bleacesothen .e-m.  In rural ares                       atiurd Poalat~ion feo   Abnlue PvetyIncoe,ke   pret  arba
resamabi  ectns wald  qtlythan th eewfe ormeer  of the heaneheld                       and meal   Parceoc  f pop.ltir   feb           t edarl  shI   se"alute
do net been tospea disprporionte  part of the dsy  Lo f.tthiig the                            po
Afanny's ester eeds.
Acestv Bacr-t  DI-e--    prcn  of e-Plis t         -  total  erben, andro       -
lasher t fPeople frt.ubar, at   url  nre  by evorta diap-sl a
percentages wf their reapectiv  -popeltnio.          tErs diPosa  mayincld
the IIllecien sa  dieposal *   thp or vitnotrr rn,oh.s   men
lar i_ taile1its.
Po,uuto pe .Pyie"     - Population divided by nubte  of prctinieg physi-                                                             BsEa-le and Secis1 Bats Dittsto
tita'gnifi    fro  amdia  nobe   a  neetanylee.                                                                          roo_olo delyae sad Pr0Je-totfe     asPan-n
Poua to   e  Nursig Pse-   -Popeistian dielded by  .. bar af prectlisu                                                                      slay 1962
maIm cad fnmal  gead_ust _ turns     .ssst-  mamas. peactiou7 sres. and
aur _aiuefiries..



- 50 -                                          ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
PHILIPPINES - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                      Annual growth rates (X) (at constant prices)
current prices)                        Actual                                       Projected
c-.dicator                           1981            1978    1979    1980    1981    1982/a   1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
-' iI0NAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product            38,876            5.9      5.9      4.9      3.8      2.5       2.0      4.5      5.5      6.0      6.5
Agriculture                      8, 765           4.8      5.3      5.0      3.6      3.4       3.4      5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0
industry                        14,481            6.4      6.7      3.5      4.7      1.0       1.0      4.7     6.3      7.1      7.5
Services                        15,630            6.3      5.5      6.3      3.0      2.2       2.2      4.0      5.0     5.5      6.0
Consumption                       29,032            4.6      4.8      4.8      4.0      2.2       1.7      2.9      4.6      4.9     6.1
Gross investment                  11,806           13.3      7.4      1.0      2.3      1.0      -0.3      4.5      5.5      6.0     6.5
Exports of GNFS                     7,411           1.6      7.4    16.0       1.6    -3.0        5.0      6.6      7.2      7.9     8.1
Imports of GNFS                    9,373           13.2    10.3       3.7    -2.9       0.1       0.6      1.6      2.7      5.1     6.0
Gross national savings             9,884            8.3      7.7      3.4      3.1      1.2
?RICES
GDP deflator (1972 = 100)                         210.6   249.4   286.9   319.3   350.0
Exchange rate (US$1 =   )                          7.38    7.39    7.52    7.89    8.45
Export price index (1980 = 100)                    74.5    98.9   100.0    99.4    91.4          94.0   101.6   112.6   120.3   128.6
Import price index (1980 = 100)                    69.3    81.6   100.0   112.7   112.8    118.8   128.4   139.0   150.7   162.5
Terms of trade index (1980 = 100)                 107.5   121.2   100.0    88.2    81.1          79.1    79.0    81.0    79.8    79.1
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                        Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices) /b                                  (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990          1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
-ross domestic product             100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0              5.1        6.1         5.9        3.4        6.5
Agriculture                       28.1    27.8    29.0    23.2    23.2    22.0              4.3        4.3         4.8        4.2        5.0
Industry                          25.8    29.6    33.5    36.9    38.1    40.6              6.0        8.6        7.6        3.5         7.1
Services                          46.1    42.6    37.5    39.9    38.7    37.4              5.2        5.4        5.7        3.8         5.9
Consumption                       85.3    79.2    75.8    73.8    74.5    73.6              4.8        5.5        5.2         3.1        6.0
Gross investment                  16.3    21.5    31.0    30.5    27.7    28.0              8.2       11.5        6.5         2.3        6.4
Exports of GNFS                   10.8    19.4    18.5    20.1    21.8    22.1              5.8        3.2       10.0         5.2        8.5
Imports of GNFS                   10.6    19.7    25.3    26.4    25.0    23,7              6.8        6.8        8.0        2.1        7.1
Gross national savings            16.2    20.5    25.3    23.1                              7.4        9.7         5.8
As % of GDP
1960       1970       1975       1980         Labor Force in 1978           Millions    (%)
'UBLIC FINANCE                                                                                Agriculture                   7.4        4.4
C,urrent revenues                           9.8        9.5        13.9       13.6           Industry                      2.7       16.2
Current expenditures                        9.6       10.9        12.3       10.0           Services                      5.6       33.0
Current surplus (+) or deficit (-)          0.2       -1.4         1.6        3.6           Unemployed                    1.1        6.4
Capital expenditure                         2.3         1.9        3.2        7.8
Foreign financing                           -           0.1        0.3        2.3               Total Labor Force        16.8      100.0
1960-70          1970-75           1975-80           1980-85           1985-90
DTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (X)                                   5.1               5.6               5.9              3.4               6.4
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (X)                        2.0               2.7               3.2              1.0               4.4
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                    7.4               6.2               4.2              3.9               7.0
ICOR                                                         4.5               4.7              4.6               4.6               4.2
Marginal savings rate                                       0.29              0.33              0.26             0.32              0.34
Import elasticity                                           1.33              1.12             1.20               0.7              1.05
'a Preliminary estimate.
,b Projected years at constant prices.
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
March 1983



ANNEX I
- 51 -                                             Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ million, at current prices)
Actual                   Est.                Projected
1978      1979      1980      1981    1982    1983    1984         1985    1986
Summary of Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services                    4,838      6,177    7,863    8,624   8,234   9,720  10,880  12,400  14,250
Of which:  exports of goods                    3,425    4,602       5,788     5,722   4,995   5,516   6,380   7,100   8,030
Imports of goods and services                    6,323    8,108   10,348   11,389  12,041  12,720  13,800  15,100  17,000
Of which:   imports of goods                   4,732     6,142     7,727     7,946   7,800   8,450   9,250  10,200  11,500
Transfers (net)                                    312        355       434       472      443      540      650      700      750
Current Account Balance                       -1,173   -1,576   -2,051   -2,293  -3,364  -2,460  -2,270  -2,000  -2,000
Direct investment (net)                            171         99        45       407      260      266      350      400      432
MLT loans (net)                                    891      1,091     1,032     1,382   1,582   1,518   1,377    1,345   1,350
Official-source loans (net)                      333       449       375        691      650      780      850      910      980
Private-source loans (net)                       501       642       657        691      932      738      527      435      370
Other capital (net) /a                               56     -193        593        34      333       78      100       55      168
Overall Balance /b                               -54      -579      -381      -560  -1,189    -598    -443    -200           -50
International reserves (end-year) /c             1,883    2,423    3,155    2,532
Reserves as months of imports                      3.6        3.6       3.7       2.7
External Capital and Debt
Gross Disbursements                            1,914.4  2,134.0  1,886.6  2,136.5
Concessional Loans                             116.7     184.6    165.5    212.4
Bilateral                                     56.0     113.1    107.2    198.1
IDA                                            0.9       2.5       1.7       7.1
Other multilateral                            59.9      69.0      58.5       7.2
Nonconcessional Loans                        1,797.6  1,949.4  1,719.1  1,924.1
Official export credits                      121.6     151.7       7.9      58.0
IBRD                                         163.0    210.3    228.7       441.2
Other multilateral                            46.6      81.1      83.3    119.1
Private sources                           1,466.4  1,506.3  1,399.1  1,305.8
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed                 6,298    7,204    8,415   10,148
Official-source                              1,904    2,286    2,730    3,355
Private-source                               4,394    4,918      5,685    6,793
Undisbursed debt /d                            3,589     3,645    4,086    4,546
Debt Service
Total service payments /e                      1,284    1,480    1,013    1,560
Of which:   interest                           309       488       568       806
Payments as x of exports of goods
and services /e                               26.5      24.0      12.9      18.1
Average interest rate on new loans
Official-source                                  5.5       5.5        7.4       7.7
Private-source                                   9.1      10.5      14.3       15.5
Average maturity of new loans
Official-source                                 22.7      23.4      20.2       20.9
Private-source                                  10.2      11.1      10.1       10.0
/a  Short-term capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SDRs, and errors and omissions.
/b  Equals change in net international reserves.
/c  Gross reserves of the Central Bank ("International reserves," IFS).
/d  Public and publicly guaranteed only.
7e  Includes prepayments of $401 million in 1978, $492 million in 1979 and $92 million in 1980.
East Asia and Pacific Region
March 1983



- 52 -                            ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUt OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of September 30, 1982
Loan or
Credit                                                                          Amount (less cancellations)
Number      FY    Borrower                 Purpose                              Bank         IDA   Undisbursed
Thirty-one loans and three credits fully disbursed                              681.49      32.20
1035-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.        Population                            25.00                     6.81
1080-PH   1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                         17.00                     1.54
1102-PH   1975                             Rural Development                     25.00                     2.75
1154-PH   1976                             Magat Irrigation                      42.00                     2.95
1224-T-PH 1976           "                 Education III                         24.73                     2.01
1227-PH   1976                             Chico Irrigation                      50.00                   21.21
1272-T-PH 1976                             Manila Urban                          10.00                    2.60
1282-PH   1976           '                 Manila Urban                          22.00                     5.72
1269-PH   1977                             Second Grain Processing               11.50                     1.73
1353-PH   1977           "                 Third Highways                        95.00                   37.57
1367-PH   1977                             Jalaur Irrigation                     15.00                     3.58
1374-PH   1977                             Fourth Education                      25.00                    6.09
1399-PH   1977 Central Bank of the         Fourth Rural Credit                   36.50                   10.37
Philippines
1414-PH   1977 Rep. of the Philip.         Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt.           50.00                   29.48
1415-PH   1977                             Provincial Cities Water Sup.          23.00                    5.22
1421-PH   1977                             Rural Dev. Land Settlement II         15.00                    5.23
1460-PH   1978 National Power Corp.        Seventh Power                         58.00                   26.54
1506-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         Smallholder Tree Farming               8.00                     5.38
1514-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PDCP V                                    30.00                     2.56
1526-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         Nat. Irrig. Syst. Improvmt. II    65.00                       47.05
790-PH   1978           "                 Rural :nfrastructure                             28.00        20.37
1547-PH   1978 Nat. Electrif. Admin.   Rural Electrification                     60.00                    0.79
1555-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PISO                                      15.00                     1.04
1567-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         Hagat II                             150.00                   15.40
1572-PH   1978           "                 Industrial Investment III             80.00                   22.91
1615-PH   1979           "                 Manila Water Supply II                88.00                   72.68
1626-PH   1979                             National Extension                    35.00                   27.60
1639-PH   1979                             M Hagar River Multipurpose            21.00                    9.86
1646-PH   1979           "                 Small Farmer Dev. (Land Bank)         16.50                    6.06
1647-PH   1979                             Second Urban Development              32.00                   19.40
1661-PH   1979                             Highways IV                          100.00                   93.37
1710-PHl  1979                             Water Supply II                       16.00                   16.00
920-PH   1979                             Water Supply II                                  22.00        18.09
1727-PH   1979                             Small & Medium Industry II            25.00                    0.29
923-PH   1979                             Population II                                    40.00        38.47
1772-PH   1980                             Samar Island Rural Development    27.00                       23.42
1786-PH   1980                             Fisheries Training (Educ. VI)         38.00/b                 36.23
1809-PH   1980                             Medium-Scale Irrigation               71.00                   64.52
1814-PH   1980                             Manila Sewerage & Sanitation          63.00                   52.71
1815-PH   1980           "                 Rainfed Agric. Dev. (Iloilo)          12.00                   10.79
1821-PH   1980           "                 Third Urban                           72.00                   56.11
1855-PH   1980                             Third Ports                           67.00                   52.62
1860-PH   1980                             Rural Roads Improvement               62.00                   54.37
1890-PH   1981           "                 Watershed Management                  38.00                   34.00
1894-PH   1981                             Third Livestock & Fisheries           45.00                   30.40
1903-PH   1981                             Structural Adjustment                200.00                    3.18
1984-PH   1981  Central Bank of the    Industrial Finance (Apex)                150.00                  149.39
Philippines
2030-PH   1981  Rep. of the Philip.        Elem. Educ. Sector Loan              100.00                   97.18
2040-PH   1982           "                 Ag. Support Services                  45.00                   44.91
2067-PH   1982           "                 Urban Engineering                      8.00                    7.74
2127-PH/a 1982                             Textile Sector Restructure           157.40                  157.40
2156-PH/a 1982                             National Fisheries Development    22.40                       22.40
2169-PH/a 1982           "                 SMI III                              132.00                  132.00
2173-PH/a 1982           "                 Communal Irrigation                   71.10                   71.10
2181-PH/a 1982  National Power Corp.   Coal Exploration                          17.00                   17.00
2200-PH/a 1983  Rep. of the Philip.    Education VIII                            24.40                   24.40
2201-PHTa 1983  Philip. Nat. Oil Co.   Petroleum Exploration Promotion   13.50                           13.50
2202-PH/a 1983           "                 Petroleum Exploration Promotion   24.00                       24.00
2203-PH/a 1983           "                 Geothermal Exploration                36.00                   36.00
Total                                                                    3,463.52      122.20    1,404.19
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                                 268.98       0.05
Total now outstanding                                                    3,194.54    122.15
Amount sold                                               31.94
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                        25.17               6.77       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                                   3,187.77     122.15
Total undisbursed                                                        t1,327.26      76.93     1,404.19
/a Not yet effective.
/b Includes $7.6 million NORAD funds.



- 53 -                    ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of September 30, 1982
Fiscal
Year                      Company                              Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973   Private Development Corporation of the             15.0      4.4      19.4
Philippines
1967           Manila Electric Company                            8.0      -         8.0
1967           Meralco Securities Corporation                     -        4.0      4.0
1970           Philippine Long Distance Telephone                 3.7       .8       4.5
Company
1970 & 1972   Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                        0.8     0.4        1.2
1970           Paper Industries Corporation of the                -        2.2      2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977   Philippine Petroleum Corporation                    6.2     2.1       8.3
1972           Marinduque Mining and Industrial                  15.0     -         15.0
Corporation
1973           Victorias Chemical Corporation                     1.9     0.3       2.2
1974           Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation              1.5     -          1.5
1974/1979      Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.          1.6     0.6       2.2
1974           Republic Flour Mills Corporation                   1.2     -          1.2
1975           Philippine Polyamide Industrial                    7.0     -          7.0
Corporation
1976/1980      Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                         2.6     0.2       2.8
1977           Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                         2.3      1.2      3.5
1977           Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                         3.5     -         3.5
1978           Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.          2.1     -         2.1
1979           General Milling Corporation                        4.0      1.1      5.1
1980           PISO Leasing Corporation                           5.0     0.1       5.1
1980           Ventures in Industry and Business                  -       0.3       0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980           Consoldiated Industrial Gases, Inc.                4.5     -         4.5
1981           Loans to Seven Corp. for SMSE                     18.5       .7     19.2
1981           Philippine Assoc. Smelting & Refining Corp.   -             5.0      5.0
1981           Davao Union Cement Corp.                          16.0     -        16.0
1982           NDC-Guthrie Plantations                           11.0     -        11.0
Total gross commitments                         131.4    23.4    154.8
Less sold, acquired by others,                 56.5    13.8       70.3
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC                74.9      9.6      84.5
Total Undisbursed                                41.5      0.8      42.3



- 54 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of September 30, 1982
Agricultural Sector
Loan ND. 1080    Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27, L975;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of June 1982 the project was about 95% complete. Full comlple-
tion is expected in early 1983. The delay of over two and one half years in
the original schedule was caused mainly by managerial problems and late pre-
paration of the designs for the drainage works.  The irrigated area developed
is likely to be some 20% less than originally planned, mainly because of
flooding from the Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers.
Loan No. 1102    Rural Development; $25.0 Million loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The overall project implementation was about 90% complete as of
June 30, 1982, two years after the appraisal completion date. The agricul-
tural support services, Mangyan assistance, schistosomiasis control and the
Port of Calapan Improvement components were completed in December 1981 at
variance, in some respects, to the appraisal expectations. The irrigation
and water control components are scheduled for completion in D cember 1982
while the road component will be completed in June 1983. Project implemen-
tation was delayed from the outset due to transportation difficulties,
difficult working conditions, shortage of construction materials and
supplies, and reluctance of contractors to work in remote areas. The
project costs have increased by about 40%.  The project is expected to be
completed in June 1983, about three years behind the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1154    Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness:  November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The main contract for the Maris Dam is ahead of schedule, while two
other main contracts are slightly behind. Civil works by local contract and
force acount for rehabilitation and new construction of canals, drains and
access roads are progressing well, and the project is over 90% complete. The
water management training is continuing satisfactorily. Due to earlier delays
in contract award, budgetary constraints and typhoon damage in 1980, project
completion is expected to be delayed by about 18 months over the appraisal
schedule of December 1981.
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 55 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
Loan No. 1227    Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Although the project was scheduled for completion by June 1980, it
is now only about 70% complete. Work started slowly due to late procurement
of equipment for force account work. Further delays were caused by: changes
in design which resulted in rebidding the three major contracts for the
diversion dam, the main canal and the river siphon; severe and repeated
typhoon damage; problems of right-of-way acquisition; and the suspension of
work on the diversion dam because of security problems. The project is now
expected to be completed in June 1984, a four-year delay over the appraisal
estimate. Efforts are being made to start irrigation in some project areas
from early 1983.
Loan No. 1269    Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan is fully committed and the revised closing date is expected
to be met. The loan has disbursed rapidly since the end of 1980 after a slow
beginning which led to a two-year delay in completion. Delays in project
implementation were caused chiefly by: the availability to grain millers
of alternative sources of financing; limited amounts of working capital; and
DBP's failure to promote the project's line of credit.
Loan No. 1367    Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is over 95% complete. Remaining construction activities
include the completion of improvement of works of the Santa Barbara diversion
dam and on-farm facilities. The National Irrigation Administration expects to
complete all construction works by the end of 1982. A request for an exten-
sion of the closing date is expected shortly.
Loan No. 1399    Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The escalation in fuel and machinery costs during 1978 and 1979,
accompanied by a sharp fall in sugar prices, substantially reduced the subloan
demand, particularly for four-wheel tractors, power tillers and light trucks.
Another major problem has been the growing arrears of several rural banks
resulting in many of them being ineligible for project lending. The pace
of subloan disbursements by participating rural banks continues to be slow.
Following amendments to the Monetary Board Rules and Regulations, effective
January 1982, the institutional base of the project has been widened to



- 56 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
include the Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP) arnd
other eligible non-bank financial intermediaries. The lending rules for the
rural and private development banks have also been rationalized. As a result,
subloan demand is expected to pick up but it is estimated that the disburse-
ment rate will not reach the minimum level of P 23 million per month re-
quired to disburse the loan in full by the closing date, and this will need to
be extended.
Loan No. 1414    National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress in project implementation has been slow due to shortage of
staff and design problems at the outset, which caused delays in the finaliza-
tion of designs and preparation of bidding and contract documents for the
Abulog diversion dam and drainage works in Leyte. Shortages of fuel and
construction materials, which initially caused major delays, were eventually
overcome. Implementation improved in 1979 as a result of better planning and
organization and less complicated contract procedures. However, project
execution was severely delayed in 1980, 1981 and 1982 due to inadequate and,
in certain cases, late release of counterpart funds. The project is now about
45% complete, and is expected to be completed in December 1984, about three
years behind the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1421    Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A Cabinet subcommittee has been appointed to examine proposals for a
public land management policy emerging from an interagency workshop held in
August 1981.  Feasibility studies have been completed for two of the three
settlements proposed for a follow-on Bank-financed project. Satisfactory
progress is being made in land allocation and titling and project infra-
structure; however, some titling and infrastructure works are expected to
extend beyond the current loan closing date. A good start has been made on
the credit program and this should gather momentum. Progress in the
agricultural development component has been promising, as reflected in the
adoption by settlers of improved techniques, in the extent of areas now under
cultivation, and in reported improved yields. The reforestation component of
the project has, however, been neglected. In view of the status of some
project components, the Government is expected to request an extension of the
loan closing date by two years, to December 31, 1984.
Loan No. 1506    Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $80.0 Million
Loan of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Rehabilitation of tree farms that were hit by the March 1982 typhoon
is being discussed and DBP and KKK are nearing agreement to make available to
farmers interest-free funds under the KKK program. The progress of the



- 57 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
sublending component has improved substantially during the last twelve months.
The demand for firewood and pulp has increased significantly in light of
Government's policy to substitute, where feasible, petroleum with wood produc-
tion. Future demand prospects appear favorable. The Abra Pine Development
project component has ran into serious problems with the attack of the shoot
moth and fungus; the experience being acquired under the project is critical
for future development schemes of the Bureau of Forest Development. The
institution-building features of the project for the two Ministries of Natural
Resources and Agriculture as well as the research component undertaken by
PCARR are progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1526    Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Survey and design has been completed for minor structures on the
basis of which force acccount and small package contract works are under way.
The major contract works have fallen behind schedule because of delays in pre-
paring detailed engineering designs and the slow processes in the bidding and
award of construction contracts. Project execution has also been hampered by
unusually severe weather conditions in Regions 11 and 12 and the deteriorating
peace and order situation in Region 5. Difficulties in the appropriation of
local funds further slowed down project execution in 1980 and 1981. The
project is now expected to be completed in 1985, one year behind the appraisal
schedule.
Credit No. 790   Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction of rural water supply systems and health stations is
proceeding satisfactorily with about 360 water wells and 53 health stations
now completed. The construction of the ports of San Jose and Culasi is
substantially complete. Construction of Dumaguit port is behind schedule.
Construction of the irrigation components, which was held up by inadequate
support facili4ties, ineffective farmer organizations and failure of farmers to
collaborate with project staff, is now picking up speed. About 35 km of roads
have been constructed through force account, construction contracts have been
awarded for 300 km of roads and the detailed design of the remaining roads is
well under way. Project completion is now planned for December 1984, about
two years behind the appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1567    Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress is good and the project is about 92% complete. All the
major works have been completed and the project was inaugurated by the Presi-
dent of the Republic of the Philippines on October 27, 1982. The remaining



- 58 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
works are likely to be completed by December 1982. The water level in the
reservoir has already risen to an elevation of .84 m as against the maximum
elevation of 193 m. Depending upon weather conditions, full storage may be
achieved by the end of 1982. Excellent progress has been made in the re-
settlement of population displaced by the reservoir. All the families have
been settled in three new villages and provided with basic amenities. The
project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Loan No. 1626    National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Under the project, the Ministry of Agriculture is introducting
through its Bureau of Agricultural Extension and the new Regional Offices
the training and visit (T&V) system to the agricultural extension service
of the Philippines. A shortage of local funds has affected project progress.
Procurement problems should ease as a reduced number of vehicles are to be
procured under the project. Coverage under the program has been confined to
the pilot areas, but will be expanded to achieve national coverage by the end
of 1984. The Government has submitted a modified project proposal to achieve
this objective which has been reviewed favorably by the Bank. A formal re-
quest for a two-year extension is expected.
Loan No. 1639    Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979; Date of Effective-
ness: April 25, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Implementation started early in 1980 and progress is generally
satisfactory. All major contracts have been awarded and some are ahead of
schedule. All construction equipment has been procured and delivered to site.
Completion is now expected by the end of 1984, two years behind the appraisal
estimate. The major constraint has been the overall shortage of local funds.
Loan No. 1646    Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of the
Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: April 25, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The pace of sub-loan disbursements to small farmers continues to be
slow due to LBP's cautious approach to lending resulting from poor
collections under past sub-loans and to the delay in the reorganization of
field offices caused by belated government approval of LBP's proposals. In
addition, there has been a backlog in loan withdrawals in respect of
disbursements to second priority (non-agrarian reform) beneficiaries.  The
field office reorganization and and other institutional development measures
are, however, expected to be carried out in the near future. Procedural
difficulties which held up withdrawals under the infrastructure component have
also been resolved, and the line agencies have started subproject implemen-
tation. The loan is expected to be fully drawn down by December 31, 1983, an
18-month delay over the appraisal estimate of June 30, 1982.



- 59 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Loan No. 1772    Samar Island Rural Development Project; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Bidding on road construction was delayed due to political
disturbances on the island, but contracts were awarded in June 1982.
Construction costs have increased almost three-fold over appraisal estimates.
Port work is proceeding satisfactorily, but the irrigation program has been
delayed due to withdrawal of one of the sites because of technical objections
by the beneficiaries.   Alternative sites have been reviewed by the Bank.
The construction of village wells is progressing, and a pump maintenance
problem was corrected by providing specialized service tools under the
project. The formation of water users associations, and the collection of
water charges, began slowly but are gaining momentum. The program of
schistosomiasis control has been slowed by a shortage of local funds and
suitable technicians. The Catubig Valley development study has been
completed.
Loan No. 1809    Medium7-Scale Irrigation; $71.0 million Loan of March 28,
1980. Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Four contracts have been awarded and work is under way on two of the
irrigation systems. Designs are being finalized for the remaining systems and
contract documents are under preparation. Construction equipment and vehicles
have been procured and force account works are under way on most of the
project sites. The project-assisted Malaria Eradication Service is showing
good results both in the treatment and prevention of malaria in the Nara
district of Palawan and in the training of Barangay health workers. A group
of consultants is conducting a study aimed at improving the operation and
maintenance of the National Irrigation Systems. The estimated completion date
is December 1987, two years behind the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1815    Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo); $12.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
In spite of the complexity of the project, the Ministry of Agri-
culture's project management is making fair progress. The multi-agency set-up
of this project requires close financial monitoring, which, in its present
form, needs further improvement. The 1981 wet season multiple-cropping target
of 6,000 ha under the Kabsaka methodology was achieved. The mobility of the
coordinating management staff has now improved with the provision of new
vehicles funded through the National Extension Project. The project has not
to date been able to purchase its own vehicles due to restrictions imposed by
the Presidential Office. Several project components are seriously affected by
the inadequacy or delay in the allocation or release of local funds.



- 60 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Loan No. 1890    Watershed Management and Erosion Control Project;
$38.0 Million Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: October 30, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
Both the reforestation component in the Magat and Pantabangan water-
sheds and the forest protection pilot programs at Santa Fe and Donna Remedios
Trinidad are facing implementation problems because of delays in completion
of roadways, procurement of vehicles and heavy equipment, and, in the case of
the forest protection programs, because of delays in release of funds.
Targets for field development under the reforestation program have been
largely met but although there has been a marked improvement in achievement
under the pilot forest protection programs, performance to date has been poor.
The Magat Feasibility Study is progressing satisfactorily and Phase I should
be completed on schedule, in November 1982.
Loan No. 1894    Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project; $45.0 Million
Loan of August 4, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 5,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is progressing well. In general, lending for fishpond
and hog production has exceeded appraisal estimates, while lending for sea-
going vessels and some types of cattle has lagged. (Village level cattle
schemes have substantially surpassed appraisal estimates.) The noncredit:
component being carried out by the Bureau of Animal Industries is progress-
ing well. With regard to the credit component, however, weak cash flow and
poor portfolio quality have developed as major issues which affect DBP's
overall creditworthiness. The need for a study on fishing gear technology,
to be handled by the Fishery Industry Development Council, is being recon-
sidered, and a review of maritime regulations is expected to start short:Ly.
Loan No. 2040    Agricultural Support Services; $45.0 million Loan of
August 25, 1981; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
November 10, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
New agencies have been established, and existing agencies organized
to implement the 24 components of the project. Delays have been encountered
over the designation of responsibilities between the Central Office, the
staff bureaus and the Regional Offices following the 1980 reorganization of
the Ministry of Agriculture. The failure of the Budget Ministry to provide
local start-up funds of the 1981 and 1982 local fund allocation has seriously
constrained the project.
Loan No. 2156    National Fisheries Development; $22.4 Milliion Loan of
September 18, 1982; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
December 18, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1989
Signed in September 1982, this loan is expected to be declared
effective in December 1982.



- 61 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
Loan No. 2173    Communal Irrigation; $71.1 Million Loan of June 30, 1982;
Proposed Date of Effectiveness: November 30, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
This loan was signed in June 1982. The due date for effectiveness
has been extended by two months to November 1982.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1353    Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Overall, the project is about 70% complete and two and half years
behind schedule because of slow procurement, poor performance of many contrac-
tors, and inadequate planning for the use of local funds. MPWH has adhered
to its first 12-month action program of May 1981, and works on national and
minor road contracts are now progressing satisfactorily. In June 1982, MPWH
agreed on a second action program to help speed project implementation until
its completion. The road maintenance and restoration programs have been
reduced in scope to establish more realistic targets. Procurement of road
maintenance equipment, tools and other machinery has been completed.
Consultants for supervision of construction of roads and workshops are in
place and the road and ferry feasibility studies have been completed. The
technical assistance advisors to MPWH completed their assignment in November
1979 and training advisors to MPWH completed their work in March 1980.  The
project is likely to be completed by the end of 1983.
Loan No. 1661    Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Date of Effectiveness: June 15, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After long initial delays caused mainly by slow procurement and
contracting procedures, the implementation of this project started to
progress more rapidly in 1981 and the trend continues. MPWH has adhered,
with some minor delays, to its action program for 1981/82 and agreed in
June 1982 on a new 12-month action program. MPWH has awarded nine of the
ten national road construction contracts and the works are under way.
The detailed engineering for construction of workshops has been nearly
completed and some contracts have been recently awarded. Pilot maintenance
programs for four regions are proceeding satisfactorily and procurement of
maintenance equipment is under way. Nevertheless, the overall delay in
project implementation now amounts to at least a year.
Loan No. 1855    Third Ports Project; $67 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 11, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Contracts for the construction works at the ports of Iloilo,
Cagayan de Oro, Cebu and Zamboanga have been awarded and work has begun.
The soil consolidation work at the Port of Cebu has been satisfactorily



- 62 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
completed. Procurement contracts for goods have been awarded and
deliveries are under way. Technical assistance and training components have
been initiated and studies included in the project are being pursued.
Arrangements for construction supervision need improvement and this is
being followed up by the Bank.
Loan No. 1860    Rural Roads Improvement Project; $62 Million Loan of
June 13, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
September 8,1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Five contracts have been awarded for a total of 76 km of roads,
and construction has started. Two more contracts are expected to be
awarded shortly. Engineering work on the remainder of the roads is under
way. All 24 authorized positions have been filled in MLG's Rural Roads
Program Office. All consulting services have started, and the feasibility
studies for 22 more provinces have been completed. Overseas training is
expected to be under way soon. The project is now about 12-18 months behind
schedule, caused entirely by start-up problems.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224-T  Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
This project is near completion and no new textbook production
contracts are envisioned. A total of 35.6 million textbooks under 83 titles
have been produced and an additional 8.2 million textbooks (20 titles) aLre
being manufactured. This exceeds appraisal targets by 62% and 56% in the
number of textbooks and titles respectively.  The only incomplete project
item is the construction of the Textbook Board warehouse and secretariat.
The original civil works contract was terminated in July 1982 because of
rapid price escalation. The contract has been retendered and work on site
has started. P 5.5 million has been secured to finance the construction,
which is scheduled to be completed by mid-April 1983. The Closing Date has
accordingly been extended to June 1983.
Loan No. 1374    Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The decentralized project management introduced last year is
proving successful. Construction is over 70% complete, and most of the
remaining works are under tender or construction. Buildings for the
regional and farmer training centers are now complete and occupied.
Equipment procurement has been delayed due to lack of international
supplies' interest and the Bank has suggested ways to correct this.
Technical assistance is proceeding on schedule.



- 63 -                        ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
Loan No. 1786    Fisheries Training Project; $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 19, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Delays caused by the transfer of implementing responsibility for
this project have been checked and solutions to the confusion over the shar-
ing of responsibilities between EDPITAF and project institutions are being
identified. All civil works contracts have now been awarded, ten months
behind schedule, and construction is abo-t 25% complete. Equipment and
fishing vessel contracts are expected to be awarded by the end of 1982.
Loan No. 2030    Elementary Education Sector Loan; $100.0 Million Loan of
August 25, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: November 10,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project has made a good start. Construction of classrooms is
ahead of schedule, in-service teacher training is in progress, and
procurement of equipment has begun. Project management is being
strengthened and work on policy objectives is in progress.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272-T Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282    $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
On-site infrastructure is 100% complete and 4,800 plot titles have
been awarded with another 4,000 scheduled by December 1982. Improved water
supply is now available and house connections to 14,000 households will be
completed by June 1983. The sewer outfall should be completed by December
1983, the Tondo part of the R.10 road by June 1983, and the balance of the
R-10 and the C.2 roads by April 1984. The sites will be turned over to the
local government and the water and sewer systems to the Metropolitan Water
and Sewerage System by December 1982. The traffic management component is
now operational.
Loan No. 1415    Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Overall project implementation is nearing completion, about one
year behind schedule. All major contracts have been awarded; one is
complete, and others are progressing. The construction cost is expected to
be close to appraisal estimates, with some savings to be cancelled.



- 64 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Loan No. 1615    Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project suffered a late start because of initial delays in
approvals of contracts for source development which delayed the construction
of the Bank-financed distribution system component. Since then, delays have
been experienced in contract execution and MWSS has extended the contract
periods by about 8 months. Disbursement delays of over one year now appear
inevitable, making a total delay in project implementation of about 2-1/2
years overall. A water rate increase of P 0.40 has been proposed for
January 1, 1983. Unaccounted-for water has now reached 50% of the total water
production; this problem is being studied by consultants and closely monitored
by Bank staff. Adequate measures for increasing the operating efficiency are
being formulated.
Loan No. 1647    Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
In Dagat Dagatan, Manila, problems in funding contracts and poor
coordination between executing agencies, which caused considerable delays
and cost overruns (50% over appraisal estimates), have now been resolved.
Physical works are expected to be completed by June 1984. In the regional
cities, after an initially slow start due to staffing and political
problems, work is under way on all sites and completion is expected by June
1983.
Credit No. 920   Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan No. 1710    Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
The 50 Water Districts to be financed under the project have been
formed, and about 100 communities (out of 150) identified for reconnaissance
surveys. Work is under way on the financial planning and control system, and
comprehensive management assistance and training. A new institution, the
Rural Water Supply Development Corporation, has been created, and has called
for bids for materials to be procured for rural water supply in about 1,000
rural communities. With this start-up work now under way, disbursements are
expected to improve.
Loan No. 1814    Manila Sewerage and Sanitation Project:  $63.0 million Loan
of March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 10,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
All components of the project are proceeding well, except for two
major contracts which have slipped badly, one of which is to be terminated.
The organization for the combined sewer program is in place; staffing and
training plans are being prepared; and equipment for the water quality



- 65 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
monitoring program has been approved for procurement. Delays in rehabili-
tation of the Manila Sewer Sy3tem (not financed by the Bank) are expected to
result in about a 6-month delay in the Bank-financed project. The contractual
problems encountered will also result in a slippage in disbursements of at
least 6 months. Part of the loan proceeds earmarked for preparation and
detailed engineering for a follow-on water supply project in Manila have been
used for the construction of two small diversion tunnels.
Loan No. 1821    Third Urban Development Project; $72 Million Loan of
June 2, 1980- Date of Effectiveness: September 25, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Physical progress has been slow on this project, mainly accounted
for by the sites and services components, which are delayed due to land
acquisition and managerial difficulties. However, these have now been
resolved. Physical implementation of the Zonal Improvement Program (slum
improvement) is close to the appraisal schedule. Late budget releases
continue to be a problem. Substantial preparation work has been done on the
second phase program in community upgrading, serviced sites and basic
municipal infrastructure. The MMINUTE and Solid Wastes Improvement Programs
are behind schedule but have now been programmed to achieve appraisal targets
by June 1984.
Loan No. 2067    Urban Engineering Project; $8.0 Million Loan of
February 24, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: May 20, 1982
Closing Date: June 30,1985
This loan was declared effective in May 1982. Most of the project
preparation work and detailed engineering being financed under this loan for
the Regional Cities Development Project and the Central Visayas Urban
Project are progressing satisfactorily.
Power and Energy Sector
Loan No. 1460    Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is now two years behind schedule, mainly
due to delays in the construction of the load dispatching center and the
setting up of the Technical Training Center. The revised project cost is
now estimated at $100 million (including additional works), 8% higher than
the original estimate. NPC has been unable to meet the 8% rate of return
target provided in the Loan Agreement. In FY80 and FY81, its rate of return
on revalued net fixed assets in operation was about 6.5%. In FY82, this is
expected to drop to about 5.4%. NPC-s financial position and rates would be
addressed through an energy component in the Bank-s proposed Second
Structural Adjustment Loan.



- 66 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
Loan No. 1547    Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of May 10,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Execution of the project is now complete. NEA's lending to
cooperatives for power development has increased by over 50% in the last two
years, and its financial results and condition continue to be satisfactory.
However, NEA's collation of the financial results of its client cooperatives
shows that a number are in financial difficulties. The Bank is monitoring
the situation closely, and is pressing NEA, as the regulatory agency, to
take all necessary remedial steps through rate increases improvements in
management, or other appropriate measures.
Loan No. 2181    Coal Exploration Project; 817 million Loan of September 18,
1Q82; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: December 18, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Signed in September 1981, this loan is expected to be declared
effective in December. Invitations to selected consulting firms have beem
sent out and tender documents issued for items to be procured under ICB.
The principal outstanding condition of effectiveness is related to the
execution of satisfactory exploration agreements between the Government and
the implementing agency. This is not, however, expected to delay
effectiveness.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1514    Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of Effective-
ness: June 23, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The loan is now fully committed and project progress is satis-
factory. The closing date has been postponed by six months to allow for
completion of disbursements.
Loan No. 1555    Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The loan is fully committed and disbursements are proceeding at a
satisfactory rate. The closing date has been postponed by one year to allow
for completion of disbursements.
Loan No. 1572    Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: A80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
DBP's SMI program is operating satisfactorily; the loan allocation
of $29.7 million for this component has been fully committed. However,
commitments under the loan for medium/large industry financing ($50 million)



- 67 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
and related disbursements are slower than anticipated at appraisal. The
closing date has been postponed by 18 months to allow for completion of
disbursements.
Loan No. 1727    Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
November 9, 1979 Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The IGLF component ($24.5 million) was fully disbursed by October
1981 and overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Disbursements
under the MASICAP component ($0.5 million) are slower than anticipated
because of the recent reorganization within the Ministry of Trade and
Industry. However, this component is expected to be completed before the
current closing date.
Loan No. 1984    Industrial Finance Project; $150 million Loan of May 28,
1981; Date of Effectiveness: July 22, 1981
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The Central Bank has taken steps to strengthen its Apex
Development Finance Unit (ADFU), although staff resources will need further
strengthening. Some new private financial institutions have been or are in
the process of being accredited. Commitments/disbursements are slower than
anticipated, however, due to the unfavorable economic climate. One of the
three original participating financial institutions - the Development Bank
of the Philippines - is currently facing severe financial problems, and will
need intensive supervision by the Bank and the ADFU. Cofinancing of $100 mil-
lion with commercial banks has been finalized and the Bank loan's early
maturities were suitably reduced to accommodate the high repayment install-
ments under the commercial borrowing.
Loan No. 2127    Textile Restructuring Project; $157.4 Million Loan of
June 30, 1982; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
November 30, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1988
Due to the depressed marked conditions, textile mills are reluctant
to come forward with investment proposals. The number of projects under
evaluation is therefore smaller than projected and delays in program
implementation are expected. Technical assistance to the joint evaluation
team of Board of Investment and Development Bank of the Philippines is
progressing satisfactorily. Also, substantial progress has been made in
sectoral training.
Loan No. 2169    Third Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$132 Million Loan of June 30, 1982; proposed Date of Effec-
tiveness: November 30, 1982; Closing Date: September 30,
1987
Signed in June 1982, it is expeced that this loan will be
effective in November 1982, two months later than originally anticipated.



- 68 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
Structural Adjustment Lending
Loan No. 1903    Structural Adjustment Loan; $200.0 million Loan of
September 25, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: November 14,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Considerable progress has been made in implementing the
Government's industrial development program in support of which the loan was
made. The first stage of the Government's five year program of tariff
reform and trade liberalization became effective on January 1, 1981; the
second stage of this program became effective on January 1, 1982. Subsector
development programs are under preparation to assist domestic industries to
adjust to the tariff reform and trade liberalization measures. The two
requirements for the release of the second tranche of the loan were met by
the Government in July 1981. The second tranche was subsequently released.
and, with the exception of the $5 million technical assistance component,
the $200 million loan has been fully disbursed.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035    Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
With the exception of possible minor road works, all construction
is now under contract or complete. While project implementation under MOE"
has improved, and better accounting practices are having a positive effect
on the disbursement rate, MOH staff's lack of familiarity with procurement
procedures has delayed contract awards for about $1.8 million worth of
equipment; the closing date will not, however, be extended further. MOH is
currently working on a project completion report.
Credit No. 923   Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The pace of implementation is now picking up and, from the level
of commitments made to date, disbursement performance should show a
significant improvement by mid-1983. Budget funds for 1982 have been
released for 325 of the 915 Barangay Health Stations to be completed using
community involvement, and community commitments have been received for 110
of these. However, procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles lags
seriously behind construction works. Both MOd and POPCOM's IEC activities
are well under way, and studies scheduled for 1982 have been committed. The
MIS component is proceeding slowly due to management uncertainties as to its
eventual use. MOH training is on schedule, but POPCOM's training activities
have been delayed by earlier cost overruns. The primary health care program
has been started in 15,000 barangays.



-6969                               ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
PIIILIPPINES
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the program:                       16 months
(b)  Appraisal mission:                                       April 1982
(c)  Post-appraisal mission:                                  Oct./Nov. 1982
(d)  Completion of negotiations:                              February 1, 1983
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:                           May 1983
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Prior to October 31, 1983, or other agreed date, the Bank will review
the Governments progress in implementing its structural adjustment program
(para. 131).
Section III - Special Conditions
Release of the second tranche of US$100 million of the loan would be
contingent upon satisfactory progress with respect to (para. 126):
(i)  continued implementation of the first phase of the Govern-
ment's structural adjustment program, in particular the
tariff reform and import liberalization program5
(ii)  implementation of the policy measures outlined in
Attachment I of the Government's Letter of Develop-
ment Policy; and
(iii)  initiation of the six studies summarized in Attachment II A
of the Covernment's Letter of Development Policy.



ANNEX IV
_ 70 -                           Page   1
XF                      Republic of the Philippines
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Office of the Minister
Manila
29 March 1983
Mr. Alden W. Clausen
President
The World Bank
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.
20433, U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Clausen:
Re: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM OF THE PHILIPPINES
1.    The Philippines, towards the attainment of a progressive
and balanced economy, has periodically reviewed its development
programs and policies since the country regained its independence.
In 1980, the government launched a comprehensive program of
structural reforms to address the fundamental need for improving
the allocation and efficiency of investment and increasing the
mobilization of domestic resources in an effort to- reducing the
reliance of the economy on foreign borrowings and accelerating the
achievement of the country's economic development objectives.
The initial phase of the structural adjustment program was
supported by the World Bank through a first Structural Adjustment
Loan in 1980 and an Industrial Finance Loan (APEX) in 1981. The
Philippine Government has also adopted a stabilization program
for calendar years 1980-81 which was supported by an IMF stand-
by arrangement focusing on short-term demand management policies.
A new stand-by arrangement for 1983 was agreed with the IMF on
25 February 1983.
2.    However, in spite of the determined adoption and implement-
ation of the reform program, the Philippine economy was not spared
the effects of the deterioration of the world economic conditions.
The country experienced a significant drop in its terms of trade
between 1979 and 1982 resulting from increases in the price of oil,
the lowering of export prices and the reduction in export volume as
trading partners imposed restrictive trade measures.
3.    This letter is to request for a second Structural Adjustment
Loan to support the second phase of our adjustment effort. To
this end, I would like to recapitulate briefly the structural
reforms completed to date and outline what the Government intends
to undertake in the future.
"Isang Bansa, Isang Diwa"



- 71 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2
Focus of the Structural Adjustment Program
4.     Structural reforms need to be implemented in phases and
over a period of time to cushion their impact on existing
businesses and the private sector and to allow for an orderly
transition process. Moreover, it is imperative that structural
reforms encompass all sectors requiring adjustment, considering
the interdependence of all sectors in contributing to the long-
term economic development of the country and in defining its rate
of growth. Cognizant of these principles, the Philippine
Government continues to address an agenda of multi-sectoral
policy reforms, which needs to be implemented as part of the
overall structural adjustment program. Concentrating on a few
areas at a time, the government is optimistic and confident that
the reforms already implemented and those still to be adopted
will produce a complementary and synergistic effect towards an
accelerated achievement of the country's three main economic
objectives, i.e., generation of employment opportunities,
increased capability in earning its foreign exchange requirements
and the more equitable distribution of the benefits of economic
development among its people. This must be matched, however,
with structural reforms of industrialized countries, specifically
the active trading partners of the Philippines.
5.     The initial focus of the government's structural adjustment
program has been on trade, industrial and financial policies and
involves primarily the shift from an import substitution orient-
ation for industrial promotion to a policy of encouragina invest-
ments in areas with comparative advantage. The shift is expected
to improve efficiency in industrial investments and promote the
establishment of a world competitive industrial base which, in time,
will reduce the dependence of the economy on external borrowings.
Thus,a major industrial and trade policy reform was initiated in
1980, and financial sector reforms were introduced shortly thereafter.
6.     Implementation of a second phase of industrial and trade
policy reforms has begun during the last few months. This phase
includes major revisions in the country's industrial incentives
and investment promotion policies and measures to extend the on-
going trade liberalization program. The coverage of the structural
adjustment program has also been expanded with the adontion of
initial reforms in the area of energy policy and public resource
management intended, not only to reduce the country's dependence on
imported oil and improve the efficiency of energy use, but also to
increase public revenues and strengthen the efficiency of public
investment.  The specific measures adopted in these policy areas are
enumerated in Attachment I.



- 72
ANNEX IV
Page 3
7.     In the future, the adjustment program will address
structural problems in other areas of the economy. First,
government will resolve remaining issues in the energy sector.
Sceond, further improvements in the area of public resource
management will be undertaken to strengthen investment programming
and budgeting procedures, as well as to imorove the revenue
performance of both the government and public corporations.
Third, agricultural development policies and programs will be
reviewed for the purpose of improving the sector's contribution
to the economic development of the country. Substantial
preparatory work needs to be done in all these areas before a
comprehensive program can be formulated. A list of studies which
government shall conduct to formulate future policy action is
given in Attachment II.
Status of the First Phase of the Structural Adjustment Program
8.     In 1980, the government formulated and adopted a
comprehensive statement of industrial policy for the 1980s. The
policy aims at accelerating growth of the output of the
manufacturing sector and generation of employment opportunities,
sustaining the high growth performance of manufactured exports
and improving the efficiency of investments.
9.     Building on export promotion measures introduced in the
1970s, the government introduced a program designed to further
reduce the import-substitution and capital-intensive biases
of existing industrial (except when the technology requires capital
intensiveness) and trade policies. The first stage of this program
covers the: (a) reduction of the overall level of protection and
evening out of the spread in tariff rates within and between sectors;
(b) liberalization of import licensing procedures; and (c) improve-
ments in the export regime.
10.    The government, in an effort to allowing export procedures
to operate under conditions approximating a free-trade environment
to enhance their performance, introduced various export
incentives promotion measures in early 1980. In August of that
year, the government legislated a major tariff adjustment
program which will cut peak nomnal tariff rates to a maximum of
50% over a 5-year period (1981-85) and reduce the level of
effective protection for manufacturing sector from 44% to 29%.
Complementing the tariff realignment, import licensing procedures
for about 1000 items has been programmed for liberalization over
a period of three years (1981-83). The trade liberalization
program is proceeding on schedule with the first three stages
implemented in 1981, 1982 and 1983.



- 73 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4
11.    The government implemented far-reaching institutional
and policy changes in the financial sector in 1981 to complement
the industrial and trade policy reforms. Changes aimed at
increasing domestic savings and availability of long-term finance
as well as reducing fragmentation and inefficiency of financial
institutions were introduced. Towards these objectives, the
government has adopted legislation for multipurpose-banking,
decontrolled interest rates and introduced additional incentives
for term-lending through revisions in fiscal and rediscount
policies. In addition, a lender-of-last-resort facility was
established by the Central Bank.
Second Phase of the Structural Adjustment Program
12.    The main focus of the current phase of the government's
structural adjustment program, as in the first phase, remains
industrial and trade policies. In addition, important improvements
in energy policy have been and are being introduced.
Industrial Incentives and Investment Promotion Policy
13.    The government recently revised its industrial incentives
and investment promotion policies to complement the onqoina trade
liberalization program under the guiding principles of comparative
advantage and industrial efficiency. The revised policy allows
for market forces to play a greater role in guiding industrial
investment and redirects government intervention away from
regulation towards the identification and treatment of distortions
in market indicators which inhibit export production, employment
generation and regional dispersal of industries.
14.    A major amendment of the Investments Code has been approved
by the Cabinet and is expected to receive final approval by the National
Assembly in April 1983. The law replaces the large number of
existing fiscal incentives with a small number of new incentives
specifically aimed at compensating investors more directly and
fully for market distortions. Moreover, the new set of incentives
are related to industrial performance rather than investment per
se thereby providing a higher level of accountability and cost-
effectiveness in terms of revenue foregone and making the new
system "neutral" with respect to factor choice.



- 74 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5
15.     Long-run comparative advantage has been established as
the guiding principle to be used in the selection of activities
eligible to recieve industrial incentives. The government has
also decided to limit the use of concept of "measured capacity"
(i.e., filling the gap between domestic demand and existing
capacity) only to the determination of the extent to which
government shall grant incentives (i.e., fiscal incentives and
access to government financing and guarantees) in priority areas.
The 1982 Investment Priorities Plan of the BOI reflects this
decision. Moreover, no regulations will be imposed on investment
in new or additional capacities for any sector except for those
designated as capital intensive and those covered by government
rationalization programs. As corollary to this, the government
has adopted a plan to liberalize import licensing procedures for
machinery equipment and spare parts except those to be used in the
above mentioned cases/areas.
16.     The Board of Investments on 11 January 1983 improved the
administration of incentives system by streamlining the procedures
for the availment of incentives and reducing the project evaluation
period. Greater automaticity has been introduced particularly
for the availment of export incentives. This simplification of
administrative arrangements is also expected to have beneficial
impact on small and regionally dispersed firms which, until
recently,have not availed of incentives granted by the Board of
Investments because of registration requirements which such firms
could not easily comply with.
17.     To implement the new system for the determination of
eligibility for incentives, the BOI is reorienting its staff
on the greater use of economic analysis in industrial project
evaluation.
18.     The BOI and the Ministry of Trade and Industry have also
introduced the concept of sector development programs for policy
design at the industry level. Within the framework of the
overall industrial policy, sector programs will outline a
strategy for the development of particular industries over the
medium-term and identify institutional constraints and policy
concerns which require remedial and supporting actions. Sector
development programs, to the extent feasible, will increasingly
become an important basis for determining the need and
justification for the granting of fiscal incentives to identified
activities. In addition, sector development programs will provide
a rational basis for determining and coordinating government
policies at the sector level and constitute an important part of
the indicative planning by which the Government shall provide



- 75 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6
information to guide the private sector in making industrial
investment decisions. Sector programs for the cement and textile
industries are being implemented. Moreover, sector programs for
the metal working and food processing industries are presently
being formulated. The preparation of sector programs for two
other industries will be initiated within the next six months.
19.    As indicated above, the new incentives systems, in
combination with the ongoing trade liberalization program,
constitutes a major departure from existing policies and has
important ramifications for the role and organization of the BOI
and the MTI. A thorough review has thus been made of the
organizational structure of these two agencies to implement the
new incentives system and more generally to strengthen their
capability to assume their expanded roles in the field of
indicative planning and policy formulation. Specific to the
conduct of sectoral studies and the preparation of the sector
development programs, special institutional arrangements have
been made between these two organizations. A management informa-
tion system has also been set up to monitor the administration
and impact of the new incentives system. The government has also
initiated a major program for strengthening of the National Census
and Statistics Office and for the improvement in the gathering,
processing and dissemination of industrial statistics.
20.    The National Tax Research Center, on instructions of the
Fiscal Incentives Review Board, is presently undertaking an
evaluation of fiscal incentives granted by agencies other than
the BOI with a view of making them consistent with the new
Investments Code.
Trade Policy
21.    The government has recently effected three important
follow-up trade policy reforms to those initiated in 1980: (a)
adjustment of low tariff rates; (b) further liberalization of
import licensing procedures; and (c) realignment of the
indirect tax system.



- 76 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7
22.    To complement the movement towards greater uniformity in
the structure of protection resultinq from the reduction of peak
tariffs under the ongoing tariff reform program, the government
is reviewing the low nominal tariff rates on a number of items.
A minimum nominal tariff rate of 10%, basically as a revenue
measure, has been established as a policy quideline for future
tariff realignment. In this connection, a review of tariff rates
below 10% has been initiated by the Tariff Commission in preparation
for appropriate adjustments in the Tariff Code to be made after the
completion of the current round of tariff reform in 1985.
23.    In April, 1983 the Monetary Board will adopt a formal plan
for the phased liberalization of import licensing procedures for
NEC/UC items not covered by the liberalization plan of August
1980. The plan provides for the lifting of import licensing
procedures for 36 and 201 items in 1984 and 1985, respectively.
The government, however, intends to maintain import licensing
procedures for 145 items primarily for reasons of safeguarding
national security, public health and safety.
24.    The existing sales tax system has features that taxes
imports of certain products at rates higher than those imposed
on similar goods of domestic origin. As part of the over-all
rationalization of the structure of protection, the protective
element in the indirect tax system is being gradually eliminated.
The government has adopted a uniform mark-up in the imposition
of the advance sales tax as an interim measure to the phasing
out of the advance sales tax, the institution of a second stage
value added tax and the unification of tax rates by 1 January 1985.
Similarly, differential specific tax rates will be equalized by
1 January 1985. A bill (Parliamentary Bill No. 3232) was filed
with the National Assembly on 15 March 1983 for the revision of
Section 290-B of the National Internal Revenue Code to authorize
the President to modify taxes in accordance with regional (e.g.,
ASEAN) and international (e.g., GATT) commitments of the Philippines
on trade matters. The phased elimination of the advance sales tax
will provide affected industries with the necessary adjustment
period and is expected to generate an additional p300 million in
1985, the year when the tax realignment program will be in full
implementation.



- 77 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8
Energy Policy and Public Resource Management
25.    The energy sector plays a critical role in the structural
adjustment effort of the Philippines. The country needs to
reduce the dependence of its commercial energy supply on imported
oil which provided about 73% of commercial energy requirements
in 1981. In addition, the energy sector is important in the
context of public resource management considering that the
energy investment program constitutes about one-third of public
fixed investments. Furthermore, energy taxes and prices are
important sources of public revenue.
26.    Since the 1973-74 oil price increase success has been
achieved in the development of alternative domestic energy
resources. Efforts have also been directed towards improving
the efficiency of energy use and restraining energy demand through
increases in petroleum prices and, to a lesser extent, electricity
tariffs. However, the 1979 oil price increase, together with the
recent resource constr-aints in Government revenues, has under-
scored the need to intensify the structural adjustment effort
in the energy sector.
27.    In conjunction with its Six-Year Energy Development
Program (1982-87) the Government has adopted a comprehensive
Energy Policy Statement in January 1983, outlining the
objectives and policies for the development of the energy sector
in the 1980s (Attachment III). Broadly, energy policy aims at
accelerating the development of various domestic energy resources
and strengthening energy demand management. Towards the
attainment of these objectives the government intends to under-
take the following: (a) implementation of the Energy Development
Program (1982-87); (b) adjustment in energy pricing and taxation;
(c) introduction of other energy conservation measures;
(d) promotion of the conversion from oil to other sources of
energy, particularly coal; (e) development of nonconventional
energy resources and evaluation of noncommercial energy needs;
and (f) improvement of the institutional framework for energy
planning and the implementation of the energy program.
28.    Initially, attention has been focussed on the formulation
of an energy investment plan and an appropriate financing program.
In addition, adjustmentshave been made in various energy prices
and other incentives, mainly fiscal, to promote energy
conservation and conversion to non-oil fuels by industrial users.
In the other areas, preparation is underway to formulate future
policy action.



- 78 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9
29.    The 1982-87 Energy Development Program envisages investments
amounting to Y67 billion in terms of 1982 prices. The size and
phasing of this program was designed taking into consideration
the growth targets of the economy as well as the medium-term
resource constraints of the public sector and the country's
balance of payments. Over half of the total investments will
be for the power development program of the National Power
Corporation (NPC). The program concentrates on the accelerated
substitution of oil-based power by domestic geothermal energy,
coal and hydropower. The program was prepared on a least-cost
basis and is, therefore, justified on economic grounds.
30.    Energy pricing is an important instrument for improving
energy demand management as well as in generating additional
resources for the energy investment program. To ensure a
reasonable level of self-financing for NPC and to reduce the
need for government budgetary support for the Corporation, seven
automatic quarterly increases in power tariffs of Y0.0075 per
kwh will be implemented over an 18 month-period commencing July
1982. The increases will be over and above adjustments for
any increases in fuel prices. More recently, government approved
an additional 10% increase in the average power tariffs to take
effect on 12 February 1983.
31.    The Cabinet has adopted a financing plan for the 1982-87
power investment program providing for the progressive phasing-
out of government equity contributions to the NPC since the
corporation would have sufficient asset base to generate cash to
service its debts and expand the system. The plan provides for
budgetary support targets going down from V2.5 billion in
1982 (actual Y2.3 billion) to V2.3 billion in 1983, 11.7 billion
in 1984 to Y1.2 billion in 1985 to nil in 1986. The phase-out
in government equity contribution will be achieved through
further improvements in the efficiency of NPC's operations and/or
further tariff increases and, if necessary, a re-phasing of
the power investment program. In setting the power rates to meet
the targets, consideration will be given to maintaining the
competitiveness of Philippine industry provided the rates are
consistent with the economic efficiency criteria.
32.    A restructuring of the retail power tariffs in the Metro
Manila Area to reduce subsidies among electricity consumers
and to further encourage energy conservation was initiated in
December 1982. Furthermore, government intends to undertake
a study of the structure of wholesale and retail power tariffs,
within the context of the region, with a view to identifying



- 79 -
ANNEX IV
Page 10
necessary reforms for the future. The National Economic and
Development Authority will coordinate the study which is
expected to be initiated in April 1983.
33.    At present, a two-phase study is being undertaken on
relative prices of various petroleum products and LPG to
identify adjustment measures to correct the present imbalances
in supply and demand. The first phase of the study has been
completed. In line with the study's recommendations, and in
conjunction with the need to pass on to consumers the newly
imposed 3% import surcharge and the recent depreciation of the
peso, the Government plans to adjust domestic prices of petroleum
products and simultaneously reduce major differentials among them.
Action will be taken as soon as the presently volatile international
oil situation has settled down. The second phase of the study will
address longer-term petroleum price issues covering price/tax
differentials and the appropriate refinery mix for the Philippines
in the context of projected international oil prices, output trends
and trade in refined products. This study is scheduled to be
completed in August 1983.
34.     Whereas energy pricing policy has been, and will
continue to be the major instrument for encouraging energy
conservation and conversion to non-oil sources of energy, the
government is considering the need to promote conservation-
related investments and the utilization of non-conventional
sources of energy through the granting of fiscal incentives.
For this purpose, a special provision has been inserted in the
revised Investments Code to encourage investment in energy
saving equipment. Moreover, the BOI will continue to grant
incentives to conversion investments.
Future Structural Adjustment Measures
35.     As outlined above, the Government is committed to complete
the structural reform currently under implementation and extend
the adjustment program to other sectors of the economy. For
this purpose, it intends to undertake a number of studies and
projects to identify and prepare future policy actions. For
a number of these studies and projects, detailed terms of
reference have already been formulated or are in the process
of being prepared as indicated in Part A of Attachment II.
Part B of Attachment II lists studies and projects which have
been identified but for which terms of reference still need to
be prepared. Additional areas for study will continue to be
identified as the structural adjustment program proceeds.



- 80 -
ANNEX IV
Page 11
36.    Some of the studies which the government intends to under-
take in the areas of industrial and energy policy have been
mentioned earlier. In addition, energy studies will be undertaken
to review the viability of rural electrification program and its
components, to evaluate standing policies for financing coopera-
tives and other aspects of pertaining to the organization and
operation of cooperatives, to review the development of non-
conventional energy resources and to study the potential for
further energy conservation in various sectors of the economy.
37.    The further improvement of the management of public
resources will also be pursued. Government also intends to
review the fiscal incentives granted to agricultural investment
and prepare a study for the implementation of a second stage
sales tax in connection with the phase-out of the present advance
sales tax.
38.    During 1983, the government has programmed the initiation
of studies in four major areas related to public finance:
(a) public expenditures and their financing, including government:
corporations; (b) the Philippine tax system together with the
current tax administration and revenue planning system; (c) the
role and operations of government financial institutions; and
(d) the financial planning system for the public sector covering
the government corporations as well as the national government
proper. Studies on the agricultural sector will also be under-
taken for the purpose of preparing a comprehensive policy reform
program for the sector.
Monitoring of Structural Adjustment Program
39.    The government has formed an inter-agency committee to
coordinate the implementation of the structural adjustment
program and monitor its effects. This committee which is composed
of the National Economic and Development Authority, Ministry of
Trade and Industry, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Energy,
Central Bank of the Philippines, Bureau of Internal Revenue,
Tariff Commission, Board of Investments, National Census and
Statistics Office and National Tax Research Center will (a)
evaluate the progress and impact of the ongoing reforms in the
areas of industry, trade, finance and energy; and (b) formulate
recommendations for future adjustment measures in these and other
sectors of the economy. The committee will also liaise with the
World Bank for the purpose of arranging and negotiating future
structural adjustment loans.



- 81 -
ANNEX IV
Page 12
Short-Term Measures
40. Measures aimed at short-term stabilization of the economy
and containment of fiscal and international imbalances have
been discussed with the IMF, resulting in a standby arrangement
of 315 SDR million over a year starting February 1983. These
measures include the imposition of a temporary 3% ad valorem
surcharge on all imports for revenue purposes. Under its
agreement with the IMF, the Government intends to maintain a
flexible exchange rate policy consistent with the objectives
and policies of the structural adjustment program, in general,
and the trade liberalization program, in particular.
Conclusion
41.    In view of the progress that the Government continues to
make in the formulation and implementation of its medium-term
adjustment program, we would appreciate your favorable
consideration of the Government's request for a second structural
adjustment loan of US$302.3 million.
Sincerely,
CESAR E.A. VIRATA
Minister of Finance
Attachments:    I.  Second Phase of Structural Adjustment
Program: Policy Measures Completed or
in the Process of Implementation
II. Preparation of Future Policy Reform
III. Energy Policy Statement



- 82 -
ANNEX IV
ATTACHMENT I
Page 1
SECOND PHASE OF STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Policy Measures Completed or in the Process of ImDlementation
Industrial Incentives and Promotion Policy
1.        Revision of the Omnibus Investments Code establishing a
new industrial incentives system designed to eliminate capital-
intensive bias, promote labor-intensive and export-oriented
industries, and encourage regional dispersal of manufacturinq
industry.  (Baa  PabnaBg Arl18).
2.        Adoption of new guidelines for investment priority
determination, i.e., new procedures for selection of activities
eligible to receive incentives and new guidelines for the
preparation of the annual Investment Priorities Plan (BOI Board
Resolution No. 37 dated 11 January 1983).
3.        Adoption of improved procedures for the administration of
the industrial incentives system, both in terms of registration
with the BOI and the availment of the incentives (BOI Board
Resolution No. 37 dated 11 January 1983).
4.        Amendment of MAAB No. 34 limiting its application,
effective 1 January 1984, to projects availing of government incen-
tives, financing and guaranties in sectors designated as under
government rationalization programs or capital intensive (Monetary
Board Resolution No. 482 dated 18 March 1983).
5.        Introduction of the concept of sector development programs
for industrial strategy formulation at the sectoral level and
adoption of a schedule and work program for the preparation of such
sector development programs for 19 of the country's major industries
(BOI Board Resolution No. 37 dated 11 January 1983).
6.        Adoption of revised BOI/Ministry of Trade and Industry
organization plan, including staffing and training programs,
required to administer the new industrial incentives and promotion
system and to prepare sector development programs (BOI Board
Resolution/MTI Circular dated 11 January 1983).



- 83 -
ANNEX IV
ATTACHMENT I
Page 2
7.       Establishment of a management information system for the
Board of Investment/Ministry of Trade and Industry for the purpose
of, among others, monitoring the administration and impact of the
new industrial incentives system.
8.       Implementation of a program to improve industrial
statistics in the Philippines and to strengthen the National Census
and Statistics Office (Executive Committee Decision, dated July 6,
1982).
Trade Policy
9.       Adoption of a plan for liberalizing importation licensing
procedures for 237 items not covered the Monetary Board Resolution
No. 1495 of August 1980 (Monetary Board Resolution, April 1983).
10.      Adoption of a uniform mark-up in the imposition of the
advance sales tax (Executive Order No. 883 dated 16 March 1983).
11.      Unification of the specific tax rates on domestic
cinematographic films, regardless of width (Executive Order No. 884
dated 16 March 1983).
12.      Filing of a bill in the National Assembly for the revision
of Section 290-B of the National Internal Revenue Code to authorize
the President to modify taxes in accordance with the country's
regional (e.g., ASEAN) and international (e.g., GATT) committments
on trade matters (Parliamentary Bill No. 3232 dated 15 March 1983).
Energy Policy and Public Resource Management
13.      Adoption of Energy Policy Statement (Executive Committee
Decision in January 1983).
14.      Adoption of the Six-Year Energy Development Program (1982-87)
(April 1982).
15.      Adoption of 1980-90 power expansion program incorporating
a financing plan that specifies the gradual phase-out of government
equity investment in the National Power Corporation over the period
1982-86 (Presidential Approval dated 22 June 1982).



- 84 -
ANNEX IV
ATTACHMENT I
Page 3
16.      Implementation by the National Power Corporation of
seven quarterly 30.0075 per kwh increases in wholesale Dower
tariffs starting 26 July 1982 (Presidential Approval dated 22
June 1982).
17.      Implementation by the National Power Corporation of an
additional 10% increase in the average power tariffs effective
12 February 1983 (Presidential Approval dated 24 January 1983).
18.      Implementation by the Manila Electric Company of a
program for the restructuring of retail power tariffs for Metro
Manila retroactive to 4 December 1981 (Board of Energy Decision,
dated 23 December 1982).



- 85 -
ANNEX IV
ATTACHMENT II
Page 1
PREPARATION OF FUTURE POLICY REFORM
A. Studies and Projects for Which Detailed Terms of Reference
Have Been Prepared
Industrial Incentives and Promotion Policy
1.     Rationalization of fiscal incentives administered by
agencies other than the BOI with a view to making them consistent
with the new investment incentives system (to be undertaken by
National Tax Research Center).
2.     Formulation of sector development programs for the metal
working and food processing industries (to be undertaken by
Ministry of Trade and Industry/Board of Investments).
Energy Policy
3.     Study on the efficiency and equity aspects of wholesale and
retail power tariffs of both public and private utility agencies
(to be undertaken by an Inter-Agency Committee chaired by NEDA).
4.     Study of the structure of the prices of petroleum products
and LPG and domestic refinery configuration (to be undertaken by
the Bureau of Energy Utilization of the Ministry of Energy).
Other Policy Areas
5.     Review of fiscal and non-fiscal incentives granted to
agricultural investments, including a study of market distortions/
imperfections affecting the allocation of resources in the
agriculture sector (to be undertaken by the Philippine Institute
of Development Studies in cooperation with the Board of Investments
and other relevant agencies).
6.     Study on the introduction of a second stage value added tax
to be levied equally on imported items and domestically produced
substitutes to replace the present sales tax (to be undertaken by
the Bureau of Internal Revenue).



- 86 -                  ANNEX IV
ATTACHMENT II
Page 2
B. Studies and Projects Tentatively Identified
Energy Policy
7.     Studies of development and application of nonconventional
energy resources (alcogas, coco-diesel, geothermal, biomas, etc.)
with a focus on their commercial and economic viability.
8.     Study of energy conservation potentials in the industrial,
commercial and transport sectors, including appropriate policy
measures to achieve these potentials.
9.     Review of the viability of the rural electrification
program and its power generation components.
10.    Evaluation of standing policies for financing cooperatives
including subsidy features and grace periods.
11.    Review and evaluation of the procedures followed for
organizing cooperatives and the selection of Board members,
as they may affect operational efficiency.
12.    Study of alternative rural electrification options and
applicability in the Philippine setting or selected settings.
13.    Analysis of existing pricing structures employed by
different cooperative utilities in different regional grids.
Public Resource Management
14.    Study of public expenditures and their financing.
15.    Over-all review of the Philippine tax system for the
purpose of formulating tax reforms to raise the elasticity of
the revenue system and to improve tax administration.
16.    Study of government financial institutions and preferential
credit allocation policies.
17.    Review of the government's financial planning/work program-
ming/budgeting system.
Agricultural Policy
18.    Review of institutional framework for agricultural policy
formulation and implementation.



- 87 -
ANNEX IV
ATTACHMENT III
Page 1
POLICY STATEMENT FOR THE
PHILIPPINE ENERGY SECTOR
I. BACKGROUND
Even before the oil crisis of 1973, the government had
taken steps to reduce reliance on imported oil. Shortly after
the Commonwealth was established in 1935, a law was enacted
creating the National Power Corporation to develoD hydro-power
resources. After the Second World War, the government initiated
exploration of geothermal areas, requested the IAEC to prepare
a feasibility study for a nuclear power plant, and introduced
legislation to revise the Petroleum Act in order to encourage
oil exploration in the Philippines.
Prior to October 1973, however, government efforts to
diversify energy sources were stymied by the comDaratively low
price of imported oil. In fact, it was difficult for the
Philippines to secure official development assistance for hydro-
power projects.
Consequently, when the first oil crisis occured, the
Philippines was still about 90% dependent on imported oil for
her commercial energy requirements. The oil import bill amounted
to US$231 million in 1973, representing 13% of total imports and
11% of export revenues. In 1974, the oil import bill tripled to
a level of US$681 million. The sharp increase in oil prices,
moreover, was accompanied by uncertainties about the continuity
and adequacy of imported oil suoply.
The Government took several important steps to meet the
crisis. A machinery for developing indigenous energy was set
into motion. The Philippine National Oil Company was created in
1973 to ensure reliable oil supplies initially and, subsequently,
expanded to develop oil and nonoil resources domestically. Local
experts from various energy disciplines were employed to assess
the extent of domestic energy potential. Legislation was passed
to enable serious prospectors to develop indigenous resources
as service contractors to government. In 1976, the first
comprehensive 10-year energy plan was completed which has under-
gone several updates since. In 1977, the Ministry of Energy
was created, to which the PNOC and the National Power Corporation
(NPC) were attached for program and policy coordination.
At the same time, energy conservation was given a high
priority and both orice and nonprice measures were adopted. All
oil price increases were passed on to consumers and, in addition,



- 88 -
ANNEX IV
ATTACHMENT III
Page 2
taxes on petroleum products were increased. Consequently, the
average retail price of oil products in 1981 was 13 times that
in 1973. In addition, education programs and energy monitoring
systems were established.
The result had been that dependence on imported oil
for our commercial energy requirements had dropped from the 1973
level of around 90% 1/ to 73% in 1981. The contribution of oil-
based power plants to total electricity generated had also been
reduced from 83% in 1973 to 66% in 1981. Investments in energy
resource development were increased from p39.9 million in 1973
to J02.7 billion in 1981. The conservation efforts yielded a 27%
structural efficiency improvement (in the GNP/energy ratio)
between 1973 and 1981. The value- added per oil barrel equivalent
of input increased from p827 to Y1,051 (in 1972 prices). An
average growth rate of 2.8% in enerqy consumption supported a
real growth rate of 6% in gross national product from 1973 to 1981.
II. PRESENT STATUS AND OBJECTIVES FOR THE 1980s
A. Situation in 1981
The second oil shock of 1979, however, threatened the
gains of previous years. Therefore, the Philippine Government
continues to consider imported oil as an expensive and uncertain
fuel for meeting the growing energy demands of industry, commerce,
transport and households. Although the share of imported oil
in commercial energy consumption had been reduced to 73% in 1981,
the sharp oil price increases during 1979-1980 escalated the
oil import bill to $2.5 billion in 1981, accounting for 30% of
total imports, 39% of export revenue and 133% of trade deficit.2/
B. Objectives for the Eighties
For the eighties, the Government is resolved to continue
reducing dependence on imported oil and provide relief to the
balance of payments. The primary objective of structural
adjustment is the reduction of the oil import bill to restructure
balance of payments. Continued development of domestic energy
resources aims at meeting up to 49% of commercial energy require-
ments from indigenous fuels by 1987.
1/ Figures include estimates of industrial use of bagasse
and other agricultural by-product fuels (6.3 million barrels of
fuel oil equivalent in 1973 and 10.5 million in 1981).
2/ SOURCE: CENTRAL BANK



- 89 -
ANNEX IV
ATTACHMENT III
Page 3
To achieve this, the energy proqram, firstly, targets the
growth of commercial energy demand to remain within the GDP growth
rate per year. Secondly, the program projects an acceleration
in the development of indigenous energy resources.
Government is committed to mobilizing domestic capital
resources to finance this effort. The price and tax adjustments
required for this purpose will also be designed to improve
efficiency of resource allocation in the economy.
III. PROGRAMS AND POLICIES TO ACHIEVE THE OBJECTIVES
A. The National Energy Development Program, 1982-87
In line with the energy objectives set for the 1980s, the
Government has prepared, among other things, the National Energy
Development Program, 1982-87. The target of increasing the share
of domestic energy supply is supported by sectoral energy
programs, the total investment of which will amount to '56.3
billion in 1982 constant prices. Of this amount, /17.0 billion
will be invested on upstream energy resources development,
p34.9 billion on power and Y4.4 billion on downstream projects.
Adding /10.7 billion for the programs of the National Electri-
fication Administration, the total energy investment will amount
to Y67 billion. (Table 1)
The major thrust of the energy resource development pro-
gram targets an increase in geothermal field steam supply capabi-
lity 3/ from 1,701 megawatts in 1982 to 3,076 megawatts in 1987;
18 million metric tons of domestic coal production during the
period; and limited diversification to alcogas and cocodiesel.
Power investment will expand power generating capacity from
4,884 megawatts in 1982 to 8,199 megawatts by 1987. The share
of oil/diesel thermal plants in the total power generating
capacity is expected to be reduced from 58% in 1982 to 31% in
1987. The power investment program is based on the least cost
principle and any further change in the program will adhere to
this principle.
3/ This refers to the total steam supply capability targeted
to be proven for various steamfields for the year. Installed
geothermal power plant capacity however, is expected to increase
from 559 megawatts in 1982 to a minimum 1,554 megawatts in 1987.



- 90 -
ANNEX IV
ATTACHMENT III
Page 4
Selective investments in decentralized, mini-hydro and
dendro-thermal systems will also be made, especially in grid-
inaccessible rural settlements. Downstream development programi
will build and improve energy logistics systems such as distri-
bution and marketing facilities for coal and oil products.
With a view to adjusting the energy program in the light
of the availability of resources and capacity for implementation,
regular performance review as provided by the regular updating
of the energy program will continue to be undertaken at least
on an annual basis. This exercise includes matching interim
accomplishments with targets, and reformulating, if necessary,
targets and policy measures in the light of implementing
experience.
To ensure that investments are economic, the decision on
the types, sizes and schedules of energy infrastructure will
continue to be made on the basis of providing reliable energy
including power supply at the least cost to the economy.
Technical planning will continue to be done on as long a time
horizon as is considered realistic and practicable.
B. Financing Plan for the program
The investment required for the Ministry of Energy
program would reach p56.3 billion. About 63% of the total will
be on foreign exchange which will be met from external borrowings
(official development assistance, supplier's credit and commer-
cial loans) and direct foreign investments. The peso requirements
for energy exploration and the major part of the peso requirements
for nonpower energy development will continue to be funded
locally mainly from internal cash generation and energy development
funds. The peso funding for the power investment program will
increasingly come from internal cash generation, gradually replacing
government equity contributions according to the targets presented
in Table 2. Towards this end, the government has approved seven
(7) automatic quarterly increases of three-fourths centavo (p000075)
per KWH over an eighteen (18) month period starting July 26, 1982.
The increases will be over and above adjustments for any increases
in fuel prices. More recently, the government anproved an addition-
al 10% increase in average power tariffs.
C. Cooperative Partnership between Government and
Private Sector
Government will rely on the private sector as a source
of high technology for offshore petroleum exploration and
development and will encourage both public and private sectors



- 91 -
ANNEX IV
ATTACHMENT III
Page 5
separately and in joint ventures to explore and develop onshore
energy resources. Thus, the private sector will have a prominent
role in high technology upstream activities.
The power generation and transmission subsector will
continue to be handled by the public sector. Government also
intends to provide a major part of the coal delivery system
because of the heavy infrastructure commitments. It will conti-
nue to participate in oil downstream activities (refining and
marketing). Electricity-distribution systems will remain the
domain of private firms and cooperatives.
D. Energy Pricing Policies
For the eighties, the Government will continue to follow
the policy of industry cost-recovery in the pricing of primary
or processed energy fuels to ensure continuity of supply and to
discourage wasteful utilization of fuel resources.
1. Power Rate Policy
The level and structure of NPC's wholesale power rates
will be adjusted during 1982-86 to achieve the multiple objec-
tives of controlling the demand for power, improving equity
among power consumers encouraging dispersal of economic activity,
and inreasing internal cash generation. Specifically, the power
rates will be adjusted to gradually reduce budgetary contributions
to NPC's investments with the objective of eliminating the
latter by 1986. These revenue-generating efforts will be
accompanied by efficiency improvements to effect cost savings
in NPC's operations. In addition, a study of the structure of
power tariffs will be undertaken to identify appropriate reforms,
if warranted.
For electricity retailing, the regulatory boards will
continue to implement a rate policy of cost-recovery plus reaso-
nable returns for electric distribution utilities. The electri-
city rates in Metro Manila area have been restructured effective
December 1982, resulting in the reduction of cross-subsidies.
2. Petroleum Products Pricing Policy
The government intends to continue its pricing policy on
petroleum products which would be passing on to the consumer all
increases in price arising from price actions of the oil producing
countries. To encourage energy conservation, existing taxes on



- 92 -
ANNEX IV
ATTACHMENT III
Page 6
petroleum products will be maintained and increased if necessary
or justified. The relative product prices, both at the refinery
and retail levels, are being reviewed to identify and correct
undully large differences which could exacerbate emerging produc-
tion and demand imbalances notably with respect to gasoline and
diesel. Adjustments, if necessary, would be made on the special
fund and the tax components which vary widely at present among
products including those that are close substitutes.
In this regard, the government is undertaking a study that
will propose alternative price and tax structures for each fuel
products, including an implementation schedule that would spread
over time the impact on wages and prices to acceptable levels.
To supplement the effort, the following nonprice actions
are proposed to be taken:
(a) Fuel oil imports, which presently consitute
13% of total petroleum imports, will be
phased out. The crude oil import mix will
also be changed, to the extent feasible,
to one which yields less fuel oil and more
diesel.
(b) Arrangements are being made, possibly with
Singapore and/or Indonesia, for reprocessing
of the heavier components in order to obtain
the desired quantities of diesel and other
middle distillates.
(c) Experiments in, and economic analysis of,
blending of petroleum-based fuels with
domestic biomass fuels, such as alcohol
and coconut oil, will be continued.
3.   Geothermal Pricing Policy
The geothermal pricing policy currently established by
the government targets an 18% rate of return on investments in
geothermal steam development for commercial power generation.
Furthermore, PNOC is committed to finance a study of
alternative pricing options for geothermal steam and the prio-
ritization of geothermal sites.



- 93 3
ANNEX IV
ATTACHMENT III
Page 7
4. Coal Pricing Policy
In general, coal prices will be left to market determi-
nation. However, in the cement industry case, where government
has mandated coal conversions, the government, through the
National Coal Authority (NCA), guarantees a price ceiling for
participants equivalent to 65% of domestic fuel-oil prices. For
other users, the ceiling is the price of imported coal or 65% of
domestic fuel-oil prices, whichever is higher. For domestic
suppliers, the NCA also guarantees a floor purchase price
equivalent to the transfer price of Semirara coal in its long-
term supply contract with NPC which features a base market price
escalated over time by a cost-inflation index in order to sustain
production levels.
E. Conservation/Conversion Policies
Complementing the indigenous supply effort, it is the
policy to continue to promote investments in conversion and
conservation through appropriate incentives.
While price will continue to be the main instrument for
conservation, it is planned that the BOI incentives will be
extended to those who propose to manufacture energy-saving
devices that are more economically-produced locally.
Government-mandated conversion programs for which special
laws have legislated incentives, will continue to receive them
under the provisions of those laws. Specific equipment-replace-
ment projects, directly linked to energy saving, which are
presently, eligible for BOI incentives, will continue to be given
incentives under any 'incentive reform'package that the government
may subsequently adopt.
F. Development of Nonconventional Energy Resources
Several activities have been started in the area of non-
conventional fuels and applications. For instance, to accelerate
geothermal energy utilization nonpower uses of geothermal steam
will be promoted based on the economics of alternative uses which
the Ministry proposes to study. The use of low-enthalpy geother-
mal fluids can be explored for producing biomass fuels such as
alcohol.
Experimentations will be continued to debug or improve
the production technology of alcogas and coconut-diesel to reduce
their production costs and encourage their use.



- 94 -
ANNEX IV
ATTACHMENT III
Page 8
The future direction of nonconventional energy R&D will
emphasize commercialization of "excess agricultural waste" for
rural and urban fuel use (e.g., rice hulls, biogas, coco-shells,
lumber wastes, etc.). This means continuing R&D to bring produc-
tion costs down or improve design efficiencies. But only the more
economically-viable noncon technologies will be promoted and
necessary studies will be undertaken for that purpose. The
private sector will also be tapped to undertake R&D to promote
commercialization of proven technologies.
G. Non-commercial Energy
The Government recognizes the relative importance of the
non-commercial energy sector and regards it as an area that merits
continuing attention. In this regard, it will continue to under-
take follow-up surveys to the 1977 and 1979 nationwide surveys
in order to obtain a better assessment of the sector's importance
as an energy source for different rural and urban household
applications. Government will undertake studies and steps to
improve the efficiency in the use of non-commercial energy
resources.
H. Rural Electrification and Power Program
The National Elecrtrification Administration (NEA) is
presently implementing two programs: The Rural Electrification
Program for electric power distribution and transmission and the
Rural Power Program for electric power generation.
The Rural Electrification Program has a target of provi-
ding more than five million homes with electric service by 1987.
The electric service distribution system is built and managed by
electric cooperatives. The sources or power for these coopera-
tives are the power grids of the National Power Corporation (NPC)
and the mini-hydro and dendro-thermal plants which are being
installed under the Rural Power Program.
The Rural Power Program was developed to provide elec-
tricity from domestic, renewable resources and to provide
adequate power at the least cost per kwh. It is further intended
to encourage the development of local manufacturing industries,
reforestation, rural employment and income, new farm units, and
ecological balance. By 1987, it is estimated that powerplants
with a total capacity of about 500 MW will have been installed.



- 95 -
ANNEX IV
ATTACHMENT III
Page 9
Scheduling and specific project-components of both pro-
grams are mainly determined by the relevant factors of demand,
technical and economic feasibility, and availability of funds.
The total investment requirement for both Programs
(1982-1987) is estimated to be 410.7 billion (in 1982 prices),
half of which will be required in foreign exchange. This foreign
exchange requirement will be met by external loans while the peso
requirement will be met by Philippine Government equity contribu-
tions.
All investments are and will be made by and on behalf of
the cooperatives. The funds received by NEA are relent to the
cooperatives with a maximum thirty-year amortization period. The
cooperatives' tariffs are in turn so designed as to cover the
repayment of all loans and to provide a 2% to 3% margin on gross
revenue. The repayment of loans from the cooperatives is used by
NEA as its source of investments funds. Equity contribution from
the Philippine Government is, therefore, the cash requirement of
NEA net of cash inflow from loan repayments and other revenue
sources. The present policy of NEA is to have a cash balance of
not more than equivalent of three months' expenditure.
I. Institutional Strenthening
The Government has continued to take steps to strengthen
the planning and implementing capability of the Energy Ministry
and attached government corporations. The first stage of coor-
dination planning has been taken with regular consultations done
through technical counterpart committees between NPC and NEA in
the presence of NEDA planning representatives.
Highly competent technocrats have been recruited to staff
critical management positions in the Ministry as well as the
attached corporations. Innovative managerial concepts continue to
be introduced. The practice or rotating managers for purposes of
professional exposure and cultivating a more generalist perspec-
tive is an existing practice.
The corporate planning and executive units of the PNOC
and NPC have been expanded and strengthenod. Technical and super-
visory training programs for line personnel are vigorously
implemented.



- 96 -
ANNEX IV
ATTACHMENT III
Page 10
At the Ministry, responsibilities have been streamlined.
The most recent step has been the creation of the Ministry's
Policy and Program Coordinating Committee to ensure that the
development of sector specific operational policies are compa-
tible with those of other units within the Ministry. This
Committee includes representatives of NPC, PNOC, Bureau of
Energy Development, and Bureau of Energy Utilization and is
chaired by the Senior Deputy Minister. In addition, the
planning and coordinating capability of the Ministry of Energy
will be strengthened, in areas of interface especially between
geothermal,coal and power sectors.
Coordination with other realted Ministries (e.g., Industry,
Transportation, Highways) with an impact on the energy program
will also be improved especially in relation to locating energy
intensive industries close to appropriate sources. Training
programs will continue to be conducted to supply the sector with
sufficiently trained manpower to meet the expanding challenges
of an increasingly complex program.



TABLE 1
MINISTRY OF ENERGY
SUMMARY OF THE ENERGY PROGRAM INVESTMENT, 1982-87
(In Million Pesos, 1982 Prices)
1 9 8 2               1 9 8 3              1 9 8 4               1 9 8 5             1 9 8 6               1 9 8 7           T O T A L S
LOCAL ETOREX         LOCAL      FOREX    LOCAL      FOREX       LOCAL     FOREX    LOCAL        FOREX    LOCAL       FOREX    LOCAL      FOREX       TorA.LS
PUBLIC     3,275.81  4,458.93  3,151.75  6,521.73  3,131.53  7,013.23  2,602.43  5,473.13  1,711.15  2,377.18  1,468.50  2,294.29 15,341.16  28,139.12  41,480.28
PRIVATE      735.77  1,807.07    863.51  2,158.04    675.05  1,706.28    478.59  2,280.39    450.17  1,220.16            343.41  1,131.42  3,546.50   9,303.36  12,d49.861
TOTAL      4,011.58  6,266.00  4,015.26  8,679.77  3,806.58  8,719.51  3,018.02  6,753.52  2,161.31  3,597.97  1,811.91  3,425.71 18,887.66  37,442.48  56,330.14
% PU1BLIC                                                                                                                                      81.2        75.2        77.2
INVESTMENT    81.7       71.2       78.5      75.1       82.3       80.4      84.5       81.0       79.2       66.1       81.0      67.0
NOTES:  1. This table excludes National Electrification Administration projects (1982-87)
amolunting to F10.7 million.
2. The exchange rate used is Si   0 '8.50.
8) rt 
2Q rt 
(DW 0 n
n >4
,-. ~-4
rt<



ANNEX IV
- 98 -                               Attachment III
Page 12
TABLE 2
SCHEDULE OF MAXIMUM GOVERNMENT EQUITY
CONTRIBUTIONS TO NPC
(Amounts in F Billion)
Maximum Government
YEAR                              Equity Infusions
1982                                    2.
1983                                    2.3
1984                                    1.7
1985                                    1.2
1986                                    0.0
1987                                    0.0
Y 7.5
-/Actual. The target for 1982 was Y2.5 billion.



PHILIPPINES
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Use of IMF Resources
(In millions of SDRs; as of February 28, 1983)
Purchases                                                         Trust
Compensatory            Regular               Gross use                        fund      Trust    Net use   Undrawn balance
and buffer    Oil     stand-bys  Trust fund   of fund    Repur-              repay-    fund      of Tund     of agreed
stock     facility  and EFFs      loan      resources   chases    Charges  ments   interest  resources  stand-by or EFF
1973     38.75         -          -          -         38.75      57.75      3.6     -        -         -22.60        10.00
1974     -             -         38.75       -          38.75     48.44      2.7     -        -         -12.39        45.00
1975     -            96.87      29.06       -         125.93     29.07      3.5     -        -          93.36         -
1976     77.50        55.16      90.00       -         222.66     38.75     14.0     -        -         169.91         -
1977     -             -        108.75      16.59      125.34     38.75     21.1     -         0.06      65.49         -
1978     36.08         -         57.00      47.66      140.74     73.69     24.0     -         0.21      42.84         -
1979     44.20         -         91.25      46.97      182.42     71.10     26.7     -         0.46      84.16        13.75
1980    93.30          -        210.00      39.69     342.99    115.06      31.3     -         0.70     195.93         -
1981     -             -        200.00       0.59     200.59      45.72     48.4     -         0.76     105.71         -
1982     -             -          -          -          -         49.66     74.7     0.82      0.76    -125.94         -
1983    188.50         -        230.00       -        418.50    144.08      77.7     4.34      0.74     191.64        85.00
1984                             85.00       -          85.00    218.22     80.3    14.83      0.68    -229.03
1985                                                             167.03     76.0    25.47      0.58    -269.08
1986                                                             233.08     63.3    30.18      0.43    -326.99
1987                                                             302.55     43.3    29.36      0.29    -375.50
1988                                                             148.31     20.7    25.84      0.15    -195.00
1989                                                              37.58      9.9    15.35      0.06    - 62.89
1990                                                              37.58      5.3     4.71      0.01    - 47.60
1991                                                              10.63      1.2     0.59     -        - 12.42
r :.
X >
0 
tl*
Fh'



ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 1
- 100 -
PHILIPPINES
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SUMMARY OF THE NEW BOI FISCAL INCENTIVES
Rate and eligibility
Incentive                     Domestic producer   Export producer /a                    Conditions
Pioneer    Non-   Pioneer    Non-
pioneer            pioneer
1.  Tax credit on net value earned./b           10%       5%       10%        5%       Available only for new or expanded capacity.
Tax credit earned for the first five years
of commercial production.
2.  Tax credit on net local content             10%       10%      10%       10%       Tax credit earned during 10 years of opera-
of export production./c                                                           tion, for last five years on increment of
local content. Incentive also available
to indirect exporters. For existing export
producers Id tax credit payable on
increment of local content only.
3.  Tax credit for taxes and duties            Yes       Yes       Yes       Yes       Available for an indefinite period to all
paid on raw materials, supplies                                                   export producers.
used in export production.
4.  Exemption from export taxes and fees.   Yes          Yes       Yes       Yes       As for incentive (3).
5.  Exemption from taxes and duties on        100%       50%       100%      100%
imported capital equipment.            (deferred (deferred
payment) payment)
6.  Tax credit for locally purchased          100%       50%       100%      100%
capital equipment (equal to value   (deferred (deferred
of taxes and duties which would         payment)  payment)
be waived for imported equipment).
7.  Net operating loss carry-over.             Yes       Yes       Yes       Yes      Losses incurred in any of the first 10 years
of operations may be carried over as a
deduction from taxable income for a maximum
period of 6 years following the period in
which the loss was incurred.
8.  Tax credit for withholding tax             Yes       No        Yes       No        Available for loans taken during the first
on interest on foreign loans.                                                     five years of registration or operation.
/a Producers exporting at least 50% of output from new or expanded capacity.
/b Net value earned is calculated as value of sales minus purchases of raw materials, supplies, utilities and some specific-
ally excluded commodities.
/c Net local content of export production is calculated as value of export sales minus imported raw materials and supplies,
depreciation of capital equipment, and some specifically excluded commodities.
/d Registered enterprises already engaged at the time of registration in the production, manufacture or processing of
export products.



ANNEX VII
- 101 -                          Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Selected Documents Available in the Loan File
Industry and Trade
A. Documents Prepared by the Government of the Philippines
I. Working Papers (1981)
1. Role of Investment Incentives.
2. Taxation and Non-Taxation Incentives in the Philippines:
Their Nature and Administration.
3. Market Imperfections in the Philippines.
4. Detailed Assessment of the Nature and Administration
of BOI-Incentives.
5. General Analysis of the Performance and Characteristics
of BOI-Registered Enterprises.
6. Analysis of Incentives Availed of by BOI-Registered Firms.
7. Taxation Incentives of ASEAN Countries.
8. Government Agencies in the Philippines - Functions and
Responsibilities.
9. Selected Sample of BOI-Registered Enterprises for Investment
Incentives Study.
10. Impact of BOI-Incentives on Rate of Return, Factor Prices
and Relative Factor Use: A Theoretical Assessment.
11. Broad Review of Taxation Incentives in Other Countries.
12. Evaluation of Investment Incentives System against Objectives,
Incentive Selection and Design.
13. Shadow Prices of Goods and Resources in the Philippines.
14. The Existing BOI Export Incentives and Compensating Factors
for the Bias against Exports in the Present Policy/Trade
Regime.
15. Philippine Commitments to GATT and their Implications on
the Incentives System.
16. On the Use of the DRC Criterion in Selecting Projects.
II. Position Papers (1982)
1. New Incentives System of the Board of Investments.
2. Investment Priority Determination by the Board of Investments.
3. Guidelines and Procedures for Registration with the Board
of Investments.
4. Guidelines and Procedures for the Availment of Incentives
from the Board of Investments.
5. The Sector Program Approach to Industrial Planning.
6. Program for Establishing a Management Information System
for the Ministry of Trade and Industry and Attached Agencies.



ANNEX VII
-102-                              Page 2 of 2
7. Training Programs for the Staff of the Ministry of Trade and.
Industry and the Board of Investments.
III. Legislation
1. BOI Incentives.
2. Indirect Tax Realignment.
3. Administrative papers pertaining to various policy measures.
IV. Other Documents
1. Eleven Major Industrial Projects: An Analysis of the Foreign
Exchange Impact. Prepared by National Development Company,
December 1981.
2. Tariff Commission - Briefing Papers for SAL II Appraisal
Mission, May 1982.
B. Working Papers Prepared by Bank Staff
1. Strengthening the Statistical System of the Philippines, 1982.
Energy
A. Documents Prepared by the Government of the Philippines
I. Studies
1. Assessment of Historical and Existing Tariffs of Electric
Utilities in the Philippines. NPC, June 1979.
2. Petroleum Product Pricing Study for the Philippines - Phase I
(Interim Report). August 1982.
II. Energy Development Plans
1. Ten-Year Energy Program, 1980-89.
2. Five-Year Energy Program, 1981-85.
3. The National Energy Program, 1981-86.
4. The Philippines Energy Development Program, 1982-87.
B. Working Papers Prepared by Bank Staff
1. Study of a Generation Expansion Plan for NPC's Luzon Grid,
1981-1990, October 1981.
2. Outline of Energy Policy Program to be supported under World Bank
Structural Adjustment Lending, November 1981.
3. Some Macro-economic Aspects of the National Energy Program,
1981-88, 1982.
4. Petroleum Product Pricing in the Philippines, 1982.
5. Power Tariffs in the Philippines, 1982.



IBRD 13915R2
116°     CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES                      120°                                                        124°                                                   NOVEMBER 1981
BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGIONS
NCIR  NATIONAL CAPITAL REGION
ILOCOS                  V  WESTERN VISAYAS
1 locos  Norte            37 Aklan                                                                                PHILIPPINES
2 Acra                    38 Capiz
320°   4 oos \lount       39 Antique                                                                                                                                               20
-20        4Soani                    40 I oil 100'
4Mountam          ~~4 1 Negros Cccidental
Le Unon                  ! CENTRAL VISAYAS                                    -Airport
6Banguet                42 Cebu±                                                                                       Aior
7Pangasinan               43 Negros OrentaRods
I' CAGAYAN VALLEY             44 Bohol
8 Batanes                 45 Squ jor                                                                                 '   RodIwoys
9 Cagayan                 E 'i  EASTERN VISAYAS
'0 lKalinga-Apayao         46 Northern Samar                                                                               Provincial Boundaries
11 Isabela                 47 Sar
12 Ifugao                  48 Eastern Samar                                       A                                        Regional Boundaries
13 Nueva Viscaya           49 Leyte                                               Ae                                               h      B    l
14 Quirino                 50 Southern Leyte             Looag                                              -  -  -  -   Internatonal Boundaries                    4
CENTRAL LUZON           iX WESTERN MINDANAO                      t--
15 Nueva Ecija             51 Zamboanga del Norte
16 Tarlac                  52 Zamboanga del Sur                     2 2
17 Zarmbales               53 Basilan                                      10
18 Pampanga                54 Sulu                                  r
19 Bulacan                 55 Tv-sta-i                         B°n 
20 Bataan                  NORTHERN MINDANAO                     3  I
F~I \SOUTHERN TAGALO(;   56 Surigao del Norte  Son   d
21 QueoTl n  TAAO            -7 Cansgwn            Fernando       )76 1
22 Riz                      58 Agusan del Norte              \                           -
23 Cavite                  59 Misamis Oriental                    Bagiao    14                                          0     50    100    150   200   250   300
60 Misarmis Occidental                                                         KILOMETERS
1'  24 Lautnga                  61 Bukidnon                      4                  ~MILES
26 Vlarindaque             62 Agusan del Sur                             o                                                         go         100        150        200
22 Minuoro Oriental     X; SOUTHERN  MINDANAO    TSos
28 Mindoro Occidental       63 Surigao del Sur          Tori6             b
`9 Romblon                  64 Davae Oriental          '7         -       oanofuan
30 Palaan                  65 Davao                   Angels    16   19
BICOL                         66 Davao del Sur               O< I               1
31 Camarnes Norte           67 Sourth Cotabato Olongopo °'                22
32 Camarines Su,        -tCENTRAL MINDANAM 20   _                         MA JILA
33 Catanduanes             66 Lanao del Norte
14 Abay                    69 LanaodelSur                           2                          31
35 Sorsogon                70 North Cotabato                          ,             Pagbil o
36 MasEate                 72  MagUidncaoa
72 Sultan Kudarat                   \ Li p/
29     36                  46 Allen
-12°                                                                                /                                                        4                                                12°
\   .'  >37   Rooos                  Z
/                      ',; -                                S 4 o c   pEbon
lola       41         4
X Cabu         \    X         ~~~~~56
0  Puerto                                          Couoyon ou rgaoc
30   Pr,ncesa                                                                                       '      t     °
t)I45  /            /-!Buu53
t     Cagayon de
Oro
_513                                                                              8°
V {         -      't        , 1--6                  6        i,
CH,NA                                                                  y          ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Cotobato A  - (70  Nt
_       ± Zonmboanga           '           _     /1,             Doevoo
053                                      22  \     '    6
VIET NAM            zUZON                                                                      .                                   72
;                  ~~~~~~~PHILIPPINES                                                uoio                  
JoIc                                                  .      6 7        I
5~~~~~~~~V5 Y/ArAs                                                         5                                                            Gen
PAIAWAN                                                                                                                           Sontos
-         M/hDAN'AO A
BRUNEI
MAIAYSIA  V                                                            Thin tep has been prepared by the World Bnk's staff e-elusiIeiy feo the -oeveniese
-A                                                               eCof the readers of the report te whch It is rttaehed. The deeotinaio-s sed and the
he-nda-osshown oe this map do net impiy on the part of the World B-ank nd its
affiliates. an- yjdgmeat on the legal status of aey territwry ar -eY e-dor-e-ent or
IN  D        N  E  S  I A                                120           eptance of such bouedares
120°                                                           124I                                                            l2B



