Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 473-1000 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
January 19, 2011 
 
Mrs Piera Gioda 
Chairwoman 
Comunita Impegno Servizio Volontariato (CISV) 
Corso Chieri 121/6 
10132 Torino 
Italy 
 
Re:  CHYAO Africa Grant No. TF096421 
 
SENEGAL: Struggling against Vulnerability of Children and Youth  
 
Dear Madam: 
 
In response to the request for financial assistance made on behalf of 
Comunita Impegno 
Servizio Volontariato
 (CISV) (
“Recipient”), I am pleased to inform you that the International 
Development Association (“World Bank”), acting as administrator of grant funds provided by Italy 
under the Trust Fund for Children and Youth in Africa (“CHYAO Africa”), proposes to extend to 
the Recipient for the benefit of the Republic of Senegal a grant in an amount not to exceed one 
million five hundred seventeen thousand and thirty two United States Dollars (US$1,517,032) 
(“Grant”) on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this letter agreement (“Agreement”), 
which includes the attached Annex, to assist in the financing of the project described in the Annex 
(“Project”).  This Grant is funded out of the abovementioned trust fund for which the World Bank 
receives periodic contributions.  In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard Conditions (as 
defined in the Annex to this Agreement), the Recipient may withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to 
the availability of such funds. 
 
The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to enter 
into this Agreement and to carry out the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement.  
 
Please confirm the Recipient’s agreement to the foregoing by having an authorized 
official of the Recipient sign and date the enclosed copy of this Agreement, and returning it to the 
World Bank.  Upon receipt by the World Bank of this countersigned copy, this Agreement shall  
Page  2
2
only become effective as of
 
the date specified by the World Bank in accordance with Article 
IV of the Annex to this Agreement
 (“Effective date”). 
 
Very truly yours, 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Habib Fetini 
Country Director for Senegal  
Africa Region 
 
AGREED: 
 
CISV 
 
By/s/ Piera Gioda 
 
Date: January 19, 2011 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Enclosures:   
 
(1) 
“Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various Funds”, 
dated July 31, 2010 
(2) 
Disbursement Letter of even date herewith together with “World Bank Disbursement 
Guidelines for Projects”, dated May 1, 2006 
(3) 
Guidelines: “Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, published by the 
Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 2010 
(4) 
Guidelines: “Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, 
dated May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 2010 
(5) 
Guidelines on “Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed 
by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 
Page  3
3
CHYAO Africa
 
Grant No. TF096421 
ANNEX 
 
Article I 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
 
1.01. 
Standard Conditions.
 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank out 
of Various Funds dated July 31, 2010 (
“Standard Conditions”) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.  
 
1.02. 
Definitions.  
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in this Agreement, 
and the following term has the following meaning: 
 
(i) 
“Implementing Partners” means Association for the Rural Cooperation in Africa 
and Latin America (ACRA), 
Cooperazione per il Mondo In via di sviluppo
 (COMI) 
and 
Comunita, Promozione e Sviluppo
 (CPS), all international non-governmental 
organizations (NGOs) operating pursuant to the laws of the Republic of Senegal and 
selected to implement Activities under the Project based on their strong field 
presence in the respective departments and solid track record in youth related 
programs. 
 
(ii) 
“Memorandum of Understanding” means the memorandum of understanding 
signed among the Recipient and the Implementing Partners regarding partnership 
principles for the implementation of the Project, and including technical, 
environmental, administrative, financial, and disbursement arrangements. 
 
(iii) “RONGIES” 
means 
R
éseau des ONG Italiennes pour l’Enfance au Sénégal, 
a
consortium composed of representatives of the Recipient and each of the 
Implementing Partners.
 
Article II 
Project Execution 
 
2.01. 
Project Objectives and Description.
 
The objective of the Project is to contribute to the 
reduction of vulnerability of children and youth at risk in the departments of Kaffrine, Mbour, Fatick, 
Saint Louis, and Louga by promoting socio-economic support activities in partnership with local 
agencies. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts:  
 
Part A
:
Awareness Activities
Carrying out communication activities to inform and raise awareness in communities and 
government, at the national and department level, on the risks related to the exploitation of 
children, including: 
(i) conducting training sessions on children’s right for the staff of the 
Page  4
4
Project at the national level and civil society at the department level; (ii) production of 
informative leaflets on the Project; (iii) organization of a theater contest, and, from the 
winning play,  production of a short movie aimed at fighting against children’s exploitation 
in Senegal; (iv) organization of an awareness raising caravan and awareness campaigns at 
the department level; and (v) undertaking national mobilization for the Day of the African 
Child. 
 
Part B
:
Socio-economic Support
Support to most vulnerable children and youth through socio-economic support at the 
department level: (i) provision for scholarships and school-kits for vulnerable children; 
(ii) ensuring medical support or free access to health care; (iii) organizing vocational training 
and adult literacy classes; (iv) providing support to local NGOs in charge of educational and 
vocational inclusion of vulnerable children and youth, through capacity building, provision 
of equipment, and minor rehabilitation works to ensure higher quality in children care; and 
(v) provision for medical check-up, psychological support, French classes and distribution of 
meals and clothes for talibés in selected Koranic schools in Kaffrine.  
 
Part C
:
Project Management
Support to Project management through the financing of: (i) independent monitoring and 
evaluation of the Grant activities; (ii) yearly audits of the Grant; (iii) hiring of a coordinator; 
and (iv) financing Operating Costs.  
 
2.02. 
Project Execution Generally.
 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of: (a) Article II of the Standard Conditions; (b) the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and 
Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 (“Anti-Corruption Guidelines”), with the modifications set forth 
in the Appendix to this Agreement; and (c) this Article II. 
 
2.03. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements.
 
Without limitation upon the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Recipient shall:  
 
(a) 
be responsible for the coordination of the activities, monitoring and internal 
evaluation and for the general implementation of the Project. 
 
(b) 
maintain RONGIES to be responsible for providing strategic advice, approval of 
work plans and exchange of views on sustainability.  RONGIES shall meet in person at least twice 
a
year. 
 
(c) 
make part of the proceeds of the Grant available to each Implementing Partner and 
enter into a Memorandum of Understanding under terms and conditions that are satisfactory to the 
World Bank, including but not limited to: (i) the obligation to carry out their respective part of the 
Project in accordance with the provision of this Letter Agreement; (ii) the obligation to maintain 
adequate accounting records and compliance with monitoring and reporting guidelines; and (iii) the 
requirement that the goods, works and services to be financed from the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.05 to this Annex; and such goods 
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the activities to be implemented under 
the Project. 
Page  5
5
(d) 
(i) adopt and maintain an implementation manual, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the World Bank, for the implementation of the Project, which 
includes detailed guidelines on the overall Project implementation, financial management, 
procurement, safeguards and other fiduciary arrangements (“Implementation Manual”); (ii) take 
all measures necessary to ensure that the Project is carried out in conformity with the Operational 
Manual; and (iii) not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or otherwise modify the Operational Manual 
or any provision thereof if, in the opinion of the World Bank, such assignment, amendment, 
abrogation, waiver or other modification would materially affect the implementation of the 
Project. 
 
(e) 
(i) adopt and maintain an administrative and financial procedures manual, in 
form and substance satisfactory to World Bank, which outlines the administrative, financial and 
monitoring and evaluation arrangements for the implementation of the Project (“Administrative 
and Financial Procedures Manual”); and (ii) not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or otherwise 
modify the Administrative and Financial Procedures Manual or any provision thereof if, in the 
opinion of the World Bank, such assignment, amendment, abrogation, waiver or other 
modification would materially affect the implementation of the Project. 
 
2.04.
 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation.  
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the 
World Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the World Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such 
report. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions.  The Completion Report shall be furnished 
to the World Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
 
2.05. 
Financial Management.
 (a) 
The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management 
system is maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard 
Conditions. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
are prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.  Such audit of the Financial Statements 
shall cover the entire period during which withdrawals from the Grant Account were made.  The 
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later 
than six months after the end of such period.
 
2.06. 
Procurement
 
(a) General
.
All goods, works, and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the requirements 
set forth or referred to in: 
 
Page  6
6
(i) Section 
I 
(excluding 
paragraph 
1.16) 
of the “Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the World Bank 
in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 (“Procurement Guidelines”), in the 
case of goods; and 
 
(ii) 
Sections I (excluding paragraph 1.24) and IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published 
by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 (“Consultant 
Guidelines”) in the case of consultants’ services. 
 
(b) Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used in the following paragraphs of this 
Section to describe particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, 
or the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
(c) 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following methods 
may be used for the procurement of goods and works: (A) Shopping; and (B) Community 
Participation in accordance with procedures acceptable to the World Bank. 
 
(d) 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
(i) 
Except as otherwise provided in item (ii) below, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based 
Selection.
 
(ii) 
The following methods may be used for the procurement of consultants’ 
services for those assignments which the World Bank agrees meet the 
requirements set forth in the Consultant Guidelines for their use:  (A) Selection 
based on Consultants’ Qualifications; or (B) Selection of Individual Consultants. 
 
(e) 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
.
Except as the World 
Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, the following contracts shall be 
subject to Prior Review by the World Bank:  (a) the first contract to be awarded in accordance 
with each procurement method; (b) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (c) each contract for individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000.  All other contracts shall be subject to 
Post Review by the World Bank.
 
Article III 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds 
 
3.01. 
Eligible Expenditures.
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in 
accordance with the provisions of (a) the Standard Conditions, (b) this Section, and (c) such 
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the World Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), 
to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the following table.  The table specifies the 
categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
(“Category”), the allocations of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Page  7
7
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated  
(expressed in  
U.S. Dollars) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)   Minor rehabilitation 
works, 
Consultants’ 
Services, Training, 
Goods, and Operating 
Costs 
1,517,032 100% 
TOTAL 
1,517,032  
For purposes of this paragraph, the terms:  
 
(a) 
“Training” means the reasonable cost of:  (i) training materials; (ii) local travel 
and subsistence for participants; (iii) fees for trainers; and (iv) any other expenses related to 
training to be carried out under the Project; and 
 
(b) 
“Operating Costs” means the reasonable incremental expenditures incurred by 
the Recipient on account of Project implementation including, 
inter alia
,
contribution to office 
running costs, communication costs, printing materials, and vehicle rental, fuel and maintenance.  
 
3.02. 
Withdrawal Conditions.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made for payments made prior to the date of countersignature 
of this Agreement by the Recipient. 
 
3.03. 
Withdrawal Period.
 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard 
Conditions is December 31, 2012. 
 
Article IV 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
4.01
.
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the World Bank 
has been furnished to the World Bank that the conditions specified below have been satisfied: 
 
(a) 
if World Bank so requests, the condition of the Recipient, as represented or 
warranted to the World Bank in this Agreement, has undergone no material adverse change after 
the date of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the Member Country has confirmed its support for the Project in a manner 
acceptable to the World Bank;  
 
(c) 
the Recipient has adopted the Implementation Manual, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the World Bank;  
 
Page  8
8
(d) 
the Recipient has entered into an MOU with each implementing partner under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the World Bank; and 
 
(e) 
the Recipient has adopted the Administrative and Financial Procedures Manual, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank. 
 
4.02. 
Except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, this Agreement shall 
enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank dispatches to the Recipient notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required pursuant to Section 4
.01
(“Effective Date”).  If, before the 
Effective Date, any event has occurred which would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the 
right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account if this Agreement had been 
effective, the World Bank may postpone the dispatch of the notice referred to in this Section until 
such event (or events) has (or have) ceased to exist.  
 
4.03. 
This Agreement and all obligations of the parties under it shall terminate if it has not 
entered into effect by the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, unless the World 
Bank, after consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes a later date for the purpose of 
this Section. The World Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
 
Article V 
Recipient’s Representative; Addresses 
 
5.01. 
Recipient’s Representative
.
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 
of the Standard Conditions is its Director. 
 
5.02. 
Recipient’s Address
.
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard 
Conditions is: 
 
Comunita Impegno Servizio Volontariato (CISV) 
Corso Chieri 121/6 
10132 Torino 
Italy 
 
Facsimile:  
 
39-011-8994700 
 
5.03. 
World Bank’s Address
.
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the 
Standard Conditions is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
9
Article VI 
Recipient’s Representations and Warranties 
 
6.01. 
The Recipient hereby makes the following representations and warranties to the World 
Bank: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient’s April 25, 2010 annual report, a copy of which is publicly 
available through the Recipient’s official website, fairly represents its financial and operating 
condition as of the date of issuance thereof and since such date there have been no material 
adverse changes in its financial and operating conditions. 
 
(b) 
There is no litigation, arbitration or administrative proceeding or claim which by 
itself or together with any other such proceedings or claims, would be reasonably likely to have a 
material adverse effect on the Recipient’s financial and operating conditions, is at present in 
progress or pending or, to the best of the knowledge, information and belief of the Recipient, 
having made all proper and reasonable enquiry, threatened against the Recipient or any of its 
assets. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient has no outstanding agreements or liabilities, contingent or 
otherwise (including tax liabilities), which might materially and adversely affect its financial 
condition, operations or corporate structure. 
 
(d) 
The Recipient has not taken any corporate action, nor have any other steps been 
taken or legal proceedings started or (to the best of its knowledge and belief, after due enquiry) 
threatened against it, for its winding-up, dissolution, administration or re-organization or for the 
enforcement of any encumbrance over all or any of its revenues or assets or for the appointment 
of a receiver, administrator, administrative receiver, conservator, custodian, trustee or similar 
officer of it or of all or any of its assets which could reasonably be expected to have a material 
adverse effect on the Recipient’s financial and operating conditions. 
 
(e) 
No debt of the Recipient is secured by any mortgage, pledge, charge, priority or 
other lien, and no contract or arrangement exists for the creation of any such mortgage, pledge, 
charge, priority or other lien. 
 
(f) 
There are no existing defaults in repayment of principal of, or interest or other 
charges on, any debt of the Recipient. 
 
(g) 
The execution and delivery by the Recipient of, the performance of its 
obligations under, the compliance with the provisions of, the exercise of its rights under this 
Agreement do not and will not: 
 
(i) 
conflict with, or result in any breach of any of the terms of, or constitute 
a
default under, any agreement, pledge, bond or other instrument or 
treaty to which it is a party or is subject or which is binding upon it or 
any of its assets; 
 
(ii) 
contravene or conflict with its constitutive documents and internal rules 
and regulations; or 
Page  10
10
 
(iii) 
contravene or conflict with any law applicable to the Recipient. 
 
(h) 
It is not necessary to ensure the legality, validity, enforceability or admissibility 
in evidence of this Agreement that it be notarized, filed, recorded, registered or enrolled by the 
Recipient in any court, public office or elsewhere in its jurisdiction of establishment or that any 
stamp, registration or similar tax or charge be paid by the Recipient in its jurisdiction of 
establishment on or in relation to this Agreement. 
 
(i) 
No consent of, giving of notice to, or registration with, or taking of any other 
action in respect of, any governmental agency or other competent authority or agency of its 
jurisdiction of establishment is required to be obtained, given, made or taken in connection with 
the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement or the carrying out by it of any of the 
transactions contemplated thereby. 
 
(j) 
The Recipient is an Italian association, duly established and validly existing 
under the laws of its jurisdiction of establishment with full power to own its assets, to carry on its 
present business, to carry out the Project and to comply with all the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement, and all corporate and other actions required to authorize the execution and delivery 
by the Recipient of this Agreement and the performance of its obligations thereunder have been 
duly taken. 
 
(k) 
This Agreement, when executed and delivered by the Recipient, constitutes the 
legal, valid and binding obligations of the Recipient, enforceable against it in accordance with its 
terms. 
 
(l) 
The Recipient is duly authorized to operate in the Member Country and to 
perform its obligations under this Agreement (and carry out the transactions contemplated 
thereby) and no consent of, giving of notice to, or registration with, or taking of any other action 
in respect of, any governmental agency or other competent authority or agency in the Member 
Country is required to be obtained, given, made or taken in connection with the execution, 
delivery or performance of this Agreement or the carrying out by it of any of the transactions 
contemplated thereby. 
 
(m) 
The Recipient or any shareholder thereof, including any individual who 
indirectly holds shares in the Recipient, is not subject to any decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations such that the 
payment of any amount to the Recipient under this Agreement would be prohibited by such 
decision. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient understands that, in making the Grant, the World Bank has relied on the 
representations and warranties made in Section 6.01 above.  Should any material change occur in 
the condition of the Recipient as herein represented, the Recipient shall promptly inform the 
World Bank thereof. 
 
Page  11
11
 
APPENDIX 
 
Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows: 
 
1. 
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read as 
follows: 
 
“…(b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed 
by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other individuals or 
entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the Borrower or the 
individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has engaged in fraudulent, 
corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures 
(fn13)
 a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (
fn 14) 
or an individual or entity, 
including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity ineligible 
publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-
financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, financially or otherwise, 
for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or 
implementation of the project or any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the 
Bank, if at any time the Bank determines 
(fn 15) 
that such Borrower, individual or entity 
has engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in 
connection with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such 
financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a determination by such 
financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, 
coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing 
made by such financier.” 
 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed contract 
upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions policies and 
procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early temporary suspension in 
connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier 
with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination 
by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such 
financier.” 
 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of any of its 
political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and agencies that are 
Page  12
12
not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of  the  Procurement  Guidelines  or  participate  under 
paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose of 
making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full set of 
s
anctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal protocol outlining 
the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other financiers, and explaining how 
cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and 
other stakeholders.” 
 
