Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19475
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2336-CHA)
June 29, 1999
Urban Development Sector Unit
China Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 1991)
Currency: Remninbi
Currency Unit: Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00=100 fen
$1.00=Y 5.31
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Meter (m) = 0.62 miles
Liter (1) = 0.264 US gallons
lpcd = liters per capita per day
Cubic meter or ton of water = 284 US gallons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPO          =  County Project Office
ICB          =  International Competitive Bidding
O&M          =  Operations and Maintenance
MOF          =  Ministry of Finance
NPHCC        =  National Patriotic Health Campaign Committee
NPO          =  National Project Office
PPO          =  Provincial Project Office
RWSS         =  Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
UNDP         =  United Nations Development Program
UNDB/WB    =  UNDB/World Bank Water and Sanitation Program
WHO          =  World Health Organization
Gansu        =  Gansu Province
Guangxi      =  Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Province
Hunan        =  Hunan Province
Inner Mongolia =  Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region
Xinjiang     =  Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
Yunnan       =  Yunnan Province
Vice President  : Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director: Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager : Keshav Varma, EASUR
Task Manager   : Dawn Vermilya, EACCF



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE ..........................................................iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY .........................................................v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..................................1
A. Project Objectives and Description .........................................................           1l
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ..........................................................           3
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ................9
D. Project Sustainability .........................................................                      10
E. IDA  Perfornance .........................................................11
F. Borrower Performance ........................................................                         12
G. Assessment of Outcome ........................................................                        13
H. Future Operation .........................................................                            13
I. Key Lessons Learned .........................................................                         14
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .........................................................                              15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ........................................................                  15
Table 2: Related Bank Group Loans/Credits ................................................... 16
Table 3: Project Timetable ........................................................                      16
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimate and Actual /a ....... 16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ....................................... 16
Table 6: Key Indicators For Project Operations .............................................. 16
Table 7: Studies included in Project .........................................................            16
Table 8a: Project Costs .........................................................                        17
Table 8b: Project Costs .........................................................                        17
Table 8c: Project Financing .........................................................                    17
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .........................................................  17
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .........................................................             18
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .......................... 19
Table 12: IDA  Resources: Staff Inputs .........................................................  19
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .........................................................              19
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ............................ 21
ANNEX B: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE ...............................................  22
MAPS
IBRD 23276
IBRD 23348
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






- 111 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2336-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Project in China, for which Credit 2336-CHA in the amount of SDR 78.9
million (US$110.0 million equivalent) were approved on April 10, 1992 and made
effective on July 23, 1992.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1998. The Credit was fully disbursed and
the last disbursement took place on May 24, 1999, with the Special Account recovery.
The ICR was prepared by Ms. Dawn Vermilya (Task Manager and Financial
Analyst-EACCF) and Lee Travers (Economist and former Task Manager-TWUWS),
with contributions from George Plant (Water/Sanitation Engineer-EACCF), Dr. Huang
Ping (Sociologist-Consultant), and Li Xiaofeng (Task Team Assistant) and reviewed by
Messrs. Keshav Varma, Sector Manager, EASUR and Yukon Huang, Country Director,
China. The Borrower provided comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during IDA's final supervision/completion
rnission, from November 23 to December 4, 1998. It is based on material in the project
file. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by the National Project Office
contributing summary data, views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire, and their own
evaluation of the project's execution.






CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2336-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project was designed to supply about 9
million rural inhabitants in 75 counties in the provinces and autonomous regions of
Guangxi, Yunnan, Hunan, Gansu, Inner Mongolia and Xinjiang with safe drinking water,
health/hygiene education, and access to improved sanitation technologies. The project
supplemented the national rural water supply program's efforts to meet their 1995 target
to supply 85 percent of the rural population with improved water supply, including 30 to
40 percent served by piped systems and 35 to 50 percent meeting water quality standards.
As of 1997, 89 percent of China's rural population had access to improved water supply,
of which 48 percent was being served by piped water and almost all piped water systems
meet the government's standards for safe water quality. This project is the second in a
series of four rural water supply and sanitation projects that have been negotiated with
China, which address raising the quality of rural drinking water to meet national
standards and improving the health and hygiene conditions in rural China.
Project Objectives
2.    The overall project objective was to improve the health and productivity of the
poorest and most needy inhabitants of rural China by increasing coverage of water
supply, supported by sanitation services, health/hygiene education, technical assistance
and training. Supporting project objectives were to: (a) develop sectoral strategies to
prioritize investments at the county level, (b) use community participation to maximize
project impact, (c) maintain properly staffed institutions to support adoption,
implementation and operation of investment programs, (d) increase coverage in water
supply, sanitation and health/hygiene education through physical construction, provision
of equipment and utility vehicles, technical assistance and training; and, (e) establish
ongoing and expanding programs and enhance community participation and replicability
through provision of appropriate models, development and distribution of standards and
manuals.
3.    The project components in brief were:
* Water Supply. Construction of facilities such as waterworks systems, communal
faucet systems, wells with hand pumps, and rainwater collectors to provide safe
and sufficient drinking water to some 9 million rural inhabitants;



- vi -
*  Sanitation. Construction of facilities such as household, communal and school
latrines, animal enclosures and drainage ditches in selected demonstration and
pilot villages in each project county;
*  Health/Hygiene Education. Provision of health/hygiene education to all project
counties through training of provincial, county and community administrators,
healthcare workers, teachers, and community women and through them the
general population; construction of training facilities; dissemination of training
and health/hygiene education materials;
*  Technical Assistance and Training. In conjunction with the ongoing United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) project, provision of technical assistance
and training in management, finance, procurement, training of trainers, and
technical aspects of the first three project components at the national, provincial,
prefecture, county and community levels; and
*  Institution Establishment and Project Management. Construction of project
offices and dormitories; provision of office equipment; and financing of project
management and supervision activities.
4.    There were three legal covenants that, in particular, supported achieving the
substance of the objectives and components:
*  Satisfactory publication and distribution of design manuals for low-cost rural
water supply technologies and rural sanitation facilities was a condition of credit
disbursement for civil works;
*  Planning and design of subprojects would be done in accordance with the criteria
contained in the planning and design manuals and the criteria and procedures for
review and approval of subprojects would be followed; and
*  Each Project Province and Region shall cause charges for water provided by each
piped and nonpiped water systems financed from the proceeds of the Credit to
cover: (a) the costs of operating and maintaining such system and a pro-rata
portion, determined in a manner acceptable to the Association, of the costs
associated with the repayment by the Project Province or Region of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to the Province or Region (excluding any grants from
the Project Province, Region or Counties to the beneficiaries of water systems),
during the period repayments of the Credit proceeds are being made by the
Province or Region; and (b) thereafter, the costs of operating and maintaining
such system including provision for depreciation on a basis acceptable to the
Association.
5.    The stated overall objective of the project was assumed to lead directly from the
project components, but was not itself monitored. Among the objectives, the clear priority
of the Borrower and the project task teams was to "increase coverage in water supply,



- vii -
sanitation and health/hygiene education." The specific objectives mentioned above were
appropriate at the time of appraisal except, in the sanitation improvement objective, that
for "enhancing ... replicability through provision of appropriate models." There, even a
preliminary economic analysis would have shown that the model villages and the sanitary
latrine models being considered were so costly compared to traditional practices that they
exceeded willingness to pay of almost all the targeted poor communities receiving
improved water supplies.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    The project substantially achieved its major objectives. The project brought
sustainable, improved water supplies to over 9 million poor people. Extensive borrower
and IDA supervision consistently revealed highly positive beneficiary villager self-
assessment of project results. Depending on the original water problem, reduction in
incidence of intestinal diseases reported, particularly among children, and time reduction
to fetch water daily have been the main ways in which the project has benefited the
project villagers.
7.    The physical completion of water facilities and the connection of beneficiaries has
been substantial. At project close, over 2,000 water supply systems and 70,000 hand
pumps and cisterns were operating. In total these systems are currently serving 8.9
million beneficiaries (99 percent of target). The target of 9.06 million beneficiaries is
expected to be exceeded when the final 125 water plants, under construction at project
close, become operational. In most water supply systems, the water tariff is covering
operation and maintenance costs and is either fully or substantially covering agreed debt
service set-aside payments. Community participation, although in most respects modest
during the feasibility and design stages, has had a strong impact on project results. The
health education achievements have been substantial. The sanitation achievements of the
project have been partial. The improved sanitary latrine construction program failed to
generate the expected demand from the target population, even with some government
subsidy. This problem arose because of affordability concerns and because the linkage
between improved sanitation and better health is not strong enough to overcome
traditional preferences for fresh nightsoil use for part of crop fertilization. Although
demonstration villages in themselves were successful in improving the quality of their
environment and educating the village population on health education and sanitation
issues, they have not been as successful as planned in producing an obvious
demonstration effect in neighboring nonproject villages and counties.
8.    The project was affected by a substantial devaluation in 1994 and by the
government ending its import duty exemption on World Bank Group-procured goods,
which raised the local currency cost of imports. In addition, in the early 1990s, China
experienced inflation that substantially increased local currency project costs. However,
devaluation increased the local currency value of the IDA Credit sufficiently to offset
inflation during the project period, so the Credit remained sufficient for original project
goals. Inflation nonetheless partially affected project completion, since local governments



- viii -
had budgeted their local currency contribution in a fixed nominal amount and some of the
provinces resisted making the needed counterpart fund adjustments. The cumulative
result of the various financial and management problems was a 12-month delay in
completing project activities.
9.    Project sustainability is rated as likely. Financially, systems are covering
operations and maintenance costs and are making a full or significant contribution to debt
service repayment through the water tariff. Technically, the equipment and materials are
almost all domestically produced and widely available. The mechanical operating skills
are available, even in poor counties. Moreover, beneficiaries recognize the time savings
and health benefits of safe water, hence have a strong impetus to keep the water systems
operating smoothly and finance repairs and expansions. Health and hygiene education
programs are ongoing, and the project's contribution was to supplement the existing
much larger program, so its sustainability is considered likely. IDA performance has
overall been satisfactory from project identification to completion. Borrower performance
was highly satisfactory during preparation and has overall been satisfactory during
implementation and project completion.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   Overall, the project is assessed to have achieved a satisfactory outcome. Highly
satisfactory aspects of the project, for which all objectives were met, were the physical
completion of water systems, and connection of almost 9.0 million beneficiaries, reported
high levels of beneficiary satisfaction, and high levels of cost recovery. The physical
implementation of the health and hygiene education program was highly satisfactory per
the objectives set at appraisal, but since it is not clear that the health messages have
resulted in significant behavior changes, the overall rating for this component is
satisfactory. The sanitation program and demonstration village program are considered to
be satisfactory as far as physical implementation, but because demand was not generated
for the improved latrines program, and the model villages program lacked significant
demonstration effect, the overall rating for this component is unsatisfactory.
11.   Because the Government in China is reorganizing and plans to significantly
reduce its staff, a final decision on institutional arrangements to oversee the water
systems has not been decided. Currently, the three options under consideration are: (a)
maintaining the County Project Offices (CPOs) but expanding their responsibilities to
cover all government-sponsored rural water supply projects in the counties; (b)
converting the CPOs into Rural Water Supply Companies, which would still allow
government budgetary financing for a limited period of time before they would have to
fully finance themselves; or (c) allowing the townships to take responsibility for
providing services to the village water schemes, since most townships have a water
company responsible for town supply, which could provide the technical expertise
required. Health intervention initiatives will occur through existing service providers:
doctors, women's committees, and through school programs.



-lx -
12.   There are five key lessons from this project. First, long-term loans to poor villages
can complement village resources to sustainably and significantly improve water supply.
Second, demand for improved latrines is correlated with higher income levels, and, in
contrast to improved water supply, the income levels of the rural poor in this project were
too low to support the latrine improvement strategy. Third, investing in model villages is
not a successful strategy for yielding demonstration effects when the external government
financing needed to construct the model is not available to other villages seeking to
replicate the model. Fourth, training of water plant managers, operators and accountants
is critical to the sustainability of the water plant subprojects and proceeds of the Credit
should be made available to ensure that adequate training is taking place. Fifth,
intensified traditional approaches to health education have reached a saturation point. In
order to increase the acceptance of health messages and behavior modification, the
inhibitors for improved practice must be identified, and the health education program
modified accordingly.






- 1 -
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2336-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.    Objectives. As stated in the project Staff Appraisal Report, the overall objective
was to improve health and productivity of the poorest and most needy inhabitants of rural
China by increasing coverage of water supply, supported by sanitation services, health/
hygiene educatiQn, technical assistance and training. Through project preparation and
implementation, immediate objectives set for the project were to: (a) develop long-term
sectoral and subsectoral strategies to prioritize investments at the county level; (b)
explore and develop appropriate low-cost alternatives as well as formulate affordable and
sustainable programs for water supply, water treatment and sanitation through community
participation to maximize project impact; (c) establish and maintain properly staffed
institutions as well as provide technical assistance and training to support adoption,
implementation and operation of investment programs; (d) increase coverage in water
supply, sanitation and health/hygiene education through physical construction, provision
of equipment and utility vehicles, technical assistance and training; and, (e) establish
ongoing and expanding programs and enhance community participation and replicability
through provision of appropriate models, development and distribution of standards and
manuals, as well as dissemination of experience and lessons learned.
2.    Components. The project components were:
*  Water Supply: construction of facilities such as waterworks systems, communal
faucet systems, wells with hand pumps, developed springs, rainwater collectors
and related facilities to provide safe and sufficient drinking water to some 9
million rural inhabitants; provision of water quality testing equipment and utility
vehicles; continuation of development, introduction and dissemination of new
technologies through demonstration, publication and distribution of manuals and
guidelines;
*  Sanitation: construction of facilities such as household, communal and school
latrines, animal enclosures and drainage ditches in selected demonstration and
pilot villages in each project county; provision of the foundation for replicable
programs by developing and demonstrating all aspects of the program that
delivers not just latrines but facilities that are demanded, effectively used and
sustained for the duration of their service life;



-2 -
*  Health/Hygiene Education: provision of health/hygiene education to all project
counties through training of provincial, county and community administrators,
trainers, healthcare workers, teachers, community women and through them the
general population; construction of training facilities; development and
dissemination of training and health/hygiene education materials; provision of
materials, supplies, equipment and utility vehicles;
*  Technical Assistance and Training: in conjunction with the ongoing United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) project, provision of technical assistance
and training in management, finance, procurement, training of trainers, and
technical aspects of the first three project components at national, provincial,
prefecture, county and community levels; and
*  Institution Establishment and Project Management: construction of project
offices and dormitories; provision of office equipment; and financing of project
management and supervision activities.
3.    Covenants. There were three legal covenants that particularly focused on
achieving the substance of the objectives and components:
*  Satisfactory publication and distribution of design manuals for low-cost rural
water supply technologies and rural sanitation facilities would be a condition of
credit disbursement for civil works;
•  Planning and design of subprojects would be done in accordance with the criteria
contained in the planning and design manuals and the criteria and procedures for
review and approval of subprojects would be followed; and
•  Each Project Province and Region shall cause charges for water provided by each
piped and nonpiped water systems financed from the proceeds of the Credit to
cover: (a) the costs of operating and maintaining such system and a pro-rata
portion, determined in a manner acceptable to the Association, of the costs
associated with the repayment by the Project Province or Region of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to the Province or Region (excluding any grants from
the Project Province, Region or Counties to the beneficiaries of water systems),
during the period repayments of the Credit proceeds are being made by the
Province or Region; and (b) thereafter, the costs of operating and maintaining
such system including provision for depreciation on a basis acceptable to the
Association.
4.    Assessment of Objectives. The stated overall objective of the project was
assumed to lead directly from the project components, but was not itself monitored.
Among the objectives, the clear priority of the Borrower and the project task teams was to
"increase coverage in water supply, sanitation and health/hygiene education." The
specific objectives mentioned above were appropriate at the time of appraisal except, in
the sanitation improvement objective, that for "enhancing ... replicability through



- 3 -
provision of appropriate models." There, even a preliminary economic analysis would
have shown that the model villages and the sanitary latrine models being considered were
so costly compared to traditional solutions that they exceeded willingness to pay of
almost all the target poor communities receiving improved water supplies.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.    The project substantially achieved its major objectives. The project brought
sustainable, improved water supplies to over 9 million poor people. Although lacking a
monitoring program to measure health and productivity gains, extensive borrower and
IDA supervision consistently revealed highly positive beneficiary villager self-assessment
of project results. The National Project Office (NPO) conducted a few more formal
baseline and follow-up surveys that support this finding (although the survey
methodologies have weaknesses). Depending on the original water problem, reduction in
incidence of intestinal diseases reported, particularly among children, and time reduction
to fetch water daily have been the main ways in which the project has benefited the
project villagers. Supervision teams have verified financial sustainability through direct
inspection of water plant accounts.
6.    Water Supply. The physical completion of water facilities and the connection of
beneficiaries has been substantial. At project close, 2,193 water supply piped networks
were operating and an additional 125 water plants were under construction (87 percent of
plan), 7,296 hand pump schemes (93 percent of plan), and 63,998 rain catchment systems
(116 percent of plan) have been completed. In total these systems are currently serving
8.9 million beneficiaries (99 percent of target; target is expected to be exceeded when the
final 125 water plants become operational), and if design population targets are achieved,
could supply as many as 12 million beneficiaries during the next 10 to 15 years.
7.    Design and construction quality has generally been good, but supervision has
revealed weaknesses in a number of systems. On the water plant design side, problems
that have been reported in aide-memoires generally fall into the following categories: (a)
some system designs may not represent least-cost engineering options, but while
unnecessarily increasing costs, in the known cases this has not threatened service
affordability and willingness-to-pay; and (b) overoptimistic billable water consumption
design parameters have resulted in actual operating levels significantly below design
capacities, again increasing unit service costs. Among construction problems, certain
"outlier" engineering deficiencies may shorten the service life of individual water plants,
or compromise water quality unless rectified, e.g., improperly installed main meters, well
heads not sealed or surface water sources not sufficiently protected, poor ventilation and
drainage at installations, or improperly installed household meters.
8.    Quality water plant management was not a separate objective of the project nor
was project financing included for training of water plant managers, engineers and
accountants. System operation and maintenance (O&M) has generally been satisfactory,
but has also been quite varied. Since weak management performance threatens water



-4-
plant sustainability, during project implementation the need to support training for quality
management at some water plants became clear. As a result, IDA agreed to allow funds in
the technical assistance category to be used for the training of water plant staff.
9.    Financial recordkeeping for the water plants has also been variable, but generally
it has been satisfactory. Where financial recordkeeping was noted to be poor, accounting
staff turnover or lack of training were the causes. As a partial response, financial training
was included in the topics suitable for technical assistance funds.
10.   Cost Recovery. Financial cost recovery in water schemes has been substantial
and has reached levels unprecedented in other Bank Group-funded rural water supply
projects. Of the total investment, beneficiaries have contributed, on average, 30 percent of
the investmnent in upfront cash, materials and labor. In addition, 60 percent of water plants
are covering water plant operating costs and the agreed set-aside for debt service
repayment through the water tariffs paid by the beneficiaries. Of the remaining 40 percent
of water plants, most are covering O&M and a significant portion of the debt service.
Almost all piped water systems have met or exceeded the cost recovery covenant.
11.   Community Participation. Community participation, although in most respects
modest during the feasibility and design stages, has had a strong impact on project
results. Specifically, villager preference for piped network systems supplying water to
yard or house taps forced designers to shift from mostly hand pump systems to piped
network systems. Likewise low beneficiary demand for improved sanitary latrines,
largely based on their own and hence more realistic assessment of their economic and
education level, led to a 50 percent reduction in that construction target. Throughout the
project, beneficiaries participated significantly through the provision of cash and in-kind
contributions of labor and materials. Original estimates suggested that beneficiaries
would pay about 20 percent of the project investment costs in upfront cash and in-kind
contributions, and assume, on average, 88 percent of the Credit repayment
responsibilities. Together, the beneficiaries were to be responsible for about 71 percent of
the investment costs, the remainder to be provided through government counterpart
funding at various levels. As of the latest actuals in June 1998, beneficiaries through
upfront contributions and assuming the burden of most of the debt repayment through the
water tariff, are covering about 74 percent of investment costs.
12.   Health/Hygiene Education. Health education programs for health educators,
women's committees and village leaders, and the dissemination of health educational
materials has been widespread and has supported the government's existing health
education programs. The NPO reports that some 9.4 million rural women, children and
men have received health education under the project. The beneficiaries received health
education by attending training classes at the village level, reading health/hygiene
educational materials (including posters, pamphlets, videos, etc.), or participating in other
health education activities (including public meetings and performances).



-5 -
13.   A Yunnan province report, based on sampling interviews and direct observation,
shows significant behavioral changes when compared with baseline survey data. Latrine
use has risen for housewives from 92 to 95 percent, and for school-age children from 44
to 86 percent. The incidence of washing hands before eating has risen for housewives
from 3 to 83 percent, and for school children from 56 to 98 percent. Drinking boiled
water among housewives has risen from 16 to 75 percent, and among school children
from 25 to 93 percent. As the survey report states, there may be many other factors such
as socioeconomic development that have played roles in these behavior changes, but
nonetheless the project itself did help beneficiaries to improve their hygiene behavior and
sanitation environment. However, independent observations during routine supervision
missions suggests that beneficiaries are not consistently practicing good hygiene, such as
boiling drinking water, and washing hands before eating and after using the toilet, even
though they knew they should be doing so.
14.   A later survey conducted by the Bank Group found that although the behavior
messages were being understood by most beneficiaries, the messages were not conveying
why poor hygiene led to disease (e.g., germn transmission, disease vectors, etc.). Hence,
the messages need to be studied and revised if a significant improvement in behavior
modification is to occur.
15.   Sanitation. The sanitation achievements of the project have beenpartial. Per the
original proposal and in terms of the number of household latrines, the improved sanitary
latrine construction failed to generate significant demand from the target population, even
with some government subsidy. This because of affordability concerns-even the least
costly sanitary latrine models can cost half of a poor family's annual income-and the
linkage between improved sanitation and better health is not strong enough to overcome
traditional preferences for fresh nightsoil use for crop fertilization. At the mid-term
review, latrine construction targets were halved. At project close, household latrine
construction was 120 percent of the revised plan. School and public latrines also
exceeded their revised targets, by 107 percent and 114 percent, respectively.
16.   Although demonstration villages in themselves were successful in improving the
quality of the environment and educating the village population on health education and
sanitation issues, they have not been as successful as planned in producing a
demonstration effect in neighboring nonproject villages and counties. There are two
reasons for this: (a) government subsidies were used to construct most of the latrine and
supporting facilities in the demonstration villages, but similar government financing
could not be provided to nondemonstration villages; and (b) the cost of demonstration
facilities constructed was high compared to villagers' annual disposable income and no
means of providing long-term financing for these assets to nondemonstration villages was
devised during the project implementation. Some 84 demonstration villages out of an
original target of 112 were completed under the project.
17.   Technical Assistance and Training. Training of project office staff at all
levels-national, provincial and county-was substantially achieved and led to



-6 -
satisfactory implementation of the project by most County Project Offices (CPOs). After
the project's mid-term review, Credit proceeds were made available to train water plant
staff, thus helping to improve the sustainability of the water systems. As of project close,
only 46 percent of the Credit's Consulting Services and Training category had been
disbursed, although this does not reflect the level of effort, but rather the use of domestic,
hence much cheaper, consultants and trainers than the international consultants
anticipated at appraisal. The remaining $331,000 from the category was transferred to the
civil works expenditure category per the Government of China's request just before
project close. During supervision missions it was noted that where training of project
office staff was carried out to a high level and where staff turnover was low or where
replacement employees were properly trained, the project progressed smoothly. It was
also noted that the quality of water facility financial and operational management was
directly correlated with the training received by the operators.
18.   Project Management. Management responsibilities are shared among central
government, project province, project county, and water plant levels. The county and
water plants play the key implementation role, with central and provincial governments
active in some procurement and overseeing county work. The latter were marginally
satisfactory, with administrative financing constraints that held field supervision below
desired intensity, but was fully satisfactory when undertaken. Routine reporting
requirements were satisfactorily met. At the county and water plant level, the large
number of diverse players led to varied performance. Overall, performance objectives
were substantially achieved, with both auditors and IDA supervision identifying a small
number of performance failures that were, in all instances, remedied.
19.   Procurement. Procurement under the project overall was satisfactory and almost
all transactions fully satisfied World Bank Group guidelines. There were more than 2,000
civil works contracts and three international competitive bidding (ICB) contracts carried
out under the project. During supervision missions the procurement documentation was
reviewed by the IDA team at each CPO. In a few cases where World Bank Group
guidelines were not fully complied with, the problems encountered were that the
Borrower had used marking or bracketing, which is in agreement with the central
government's procurement regulations. In all cases reviewed during supervision, the
lowest evaluated responsive bidders were selected, and the result was the same as would
have occurred if the Borrower fully complied with Bank Group guidelines. In these cases
the mission leader stated in the aide-memoires that the practice of marking and bracketing
was not allowed and should not be continued. The ICB procurement was carried out in
compliance with Bank Group guidelines, but the bidding documents had to be revised
several times in order to meet Bank Group guidelines, and hence there were delays in the
ICB procurement process.
20.   Economic Reevaluation. As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report, "The overall
project objective is to improve the health and productivity of the poorest and most needy
inhabitants of rural China by increasing coverage of water supply, supported by sanitation
services, health/hygiene education, technical assistance and training." Both the borrower



- 7 -
and task team were persuaded that the inputs-improved water supply, sanitation
services, and health/hygiene education-would necessarily lead to health and
productivity improvements. In support of this, they reported two studies of previous
water, sanitation or health education projects in a range of countries that showed positive
health outcomes. The Staff Appraisal Report provided no details, or even citations, of
those studies, but one seems clearly to be the well-known 1991 paper by Esrey, et al.
("Effects of improved water supply and sanitation on ascariasis, diarrhoea, dracunculiasis,
hookworm infection, schistosomiasis, and trachoma," WHO Bulletin 69 (5) (1991): 609-
621). The borrower, and IDA team, reasoned that improved health would lead to
improved productivity.
21.   Neither the borrower nor the appraisal team undertook further benefit analysis.
Nor did they put into place a monitoring program that would allow ex-post evaluation of
the program assumptions. However, the Esrey paper shows a substantial range of
reductions in disease incidence from the various prograrns analyzed, while making the
point that few of the studies would themselves pass a strong methodological test. In the
worst cases, the Esrey paper reports investments showing little or no impact on disease
incidence. And, of course, disease incidence does not have a one-to-one relationship with
productivity. In their defense, the appraisal team explicitly recognized that serious
evaluation efforts on health impacts are difficult to do well, probably contributing to their
decision not to invest resources in this area. With this history, the ICR team cannot
reanalyze the expected benefits.
22.   With the expectation of substantial health benefits (Staff Appraisal Report, para.
5.5), the team concentrated its preparation and appraisal attention on two other elements
of project design-beneficiaries and cost-effective inputs.
23.   A major departure of this second rural water project from the first (China: Rural
Water Supply Project, Cr. 1578) can be found in the targeted beneficiaries. The first
project invested primarily in larger water systems, often serving towns rather than
villages. It also included several wealthier provinces, including Beijing Municipality.
While successfully implemented, beneficiaries tended to be among the better-off rural
residents. The government and Bank Group agreed that the second project would focus
on poorer rural areas and, within them, on poorer people.
24.   During project preparation, the teams devoted considerable effort to developing
an effective targeting mechanism to reach their objective of serving "the poorest and most
needy inhabitants of rural China." First, the project was limited to six poorer provinces.
Then the targeting mechanism used four indicators: income, water-related health, water
shortages, and minority prevalence, to identify potential beneficiary counties. Finally, it
eliminated county towns as potential beneficiaries, then specified preferred technologies
more suited to lower service levels, hence lower-income communities. Within those
communities, water supply solutions would be designed to benefit all residents. This
approach took advantage of the relative homogeneity of Chinese villages, a consequence
of strictly limited migration and the communal system prevailing for so many years. The



-8-
counties chosen for project participation had 1989 (the most recent year statistics were
available) average per capita incomes ranging from $30 to $150.
25.   The targeting effort was successful. That success cannot be understated, given that
the project design targets the poor while expecting a 20 percent initial capital contribution
(in some combination of cash, materials and labor) from villagers and passing on the full
loan and O&M obligation to the benefiting village. This financial test forces a much more
careful assessment of sustainability than the traditional practice of full capital subsidies.
Despite the fact that the very poorest villages could not be included due to their inability
to generate sufficient cash, the borrower did an excellent job of identifying poor villages
whose need was for long-term financing rather than welfare handouts. Supervision teams
visited a large number of beneficiary villages and found very few where household assets
or other wealth indicators suggested mistargeting.
26.   The project design for cost-effective inputs complemented the beneficiary
targeting work. The borrower utilized extensive domestic and international expertise in
preparing design manuals that would help bring effective nonpiped, small system and
sanitation solutions to rural areas. These manuals are an important resource for engineers
trained in standard municipal designs and were completed and disseminated to meet
design needs, as well as a disbursement condition. Bank Group supervision teams have
found the manuals in broad use several years after project inception and systems based on
them to effectively meet village needs.
27.   The project design anticipated minimal numbers of household water connections,
instead favoring standpipes and other group facilities. This was driven by the desire to
maximize the number of beneficiary villages. However, in practice many residents of
villages receiving piped water have demonstrated a strong preference for household
connections. This demand has been met without reducing project scope, as households
wanting that service have simply been asked to pay the extra cost of the connection. Since
a household connection reduces water-gathering time, increased use typically results, as
does increased villager commitment to proper system functioning.
28.   Just as unanticipated household demand led to more frequent system connections
than anticipated, a lack of household demand led to lower sanitation coverage. The
sanitation component sought "to promote demand for improved sanitation" by bringing a
few improved latrines to all villages, and comprehensively upgrading selected villages in
several aspects, including drainage, latrines, and livestock compounds. The villages
would thereby become models for their neighbors.
29.   The project successfully introduced latrines and upgraded villages, but by the
mid-term review it was clear that the learning effect was small. Latrine use was already
extensive in project villages, due to a long history of collecting feces for use as fertilizer.
The sanitation component introduced latrine designs with longer retention periods and
composting features, both designed to lower pathogen counts before use of feces on
fields. As mentioned above, design manuals were also prepared for this component.



-9 -
Unfortunately, the design characteristics of composting latrines left most villagers unable
to build the latrines themselves, and the latrines required manufactured components that
drove up costs. Since traditional latrines required only labor and locally gathered
materials, most villagers found the new latrines an unattractive alternative if not
accompanied by a substantial subsidy. The same was true of the other measures designed
for model villages. Because government lacked the money to subsidize more than the
pilot programs, neighboring villagers or villages could not replicate the upgraded
facilities provided by the program.
30.   The latrine/model village program scope was substantially reduced at the mid-
term review. Although Chinese domestic programs have successfully introduced similar
changes in wealthier villages, the borrower concluded, and the Bank Group agreed, that
poor villages served by this Credit simply lacked the means to substantially upgrade
sanitary facilities at their own expense. Emphasis was therefore placed on health
education inputs to which villagers could respond without major cash expenditures. This
project provided a valuable test of compost latrines in poor areas, but the lesson was that
China cannot expect broad uptake in poor areas.
31.   The water supply services are community-owned and operated, with the goal of
cost recovery but not profit. For this reason, the appraisal team did not estimate a project
financial rate of return and no re-estimation could take place. The other components had
no ongoing revenue flows.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
32.   Factors not generally subject to government control had little influence on the
achievement of project objectives, so this discussion will focus on factors under
government or implementing agency control.
33.   During the project period, the Chinese government ended its earlier practice of
maintaining an overvalued local currency, resulting in substantial devaluation in 1994.
One year later the government also ended its import duty exemption on World Bank
Group project-procured goods. These actions raised the local currency cost of imports.
The first of them reduced import competitiveness and the second import desirability
(tariffs were not factored into bid evaluations, but certainly were by borrowers into total
costs). However, all major equipment and materials are produced in China to acceptable
quality levels and although the import composition of the project fell, project components
continued to meet quality and cost goals.
34.   Government macroeconomic policies in the early 1990s fostered inflation that
substantially increased local currency project costs. However, devaluation increased the
local currency value of the IDA Credit sufficiently to offset inflation during the project
period, so the Credit remained sufficient for original project goals. Inflation nonetheless
partially affected project completion, since local governments had budgeted their local
currency contribution in a fixed nominal amount and some of the provinces resisted



- 10-
making the needed counterpart fund adjustments. The adjustments were eventually made,
but played a large role in the delayed project completion.
35.   The NPO funding shortfall is discussed under Borrower Performance. This
affected their supervisory effort and, through that, partially reduced both their
effectiveness and overall project quality. The NPO also had some difficulty writing
procurement specifications to adequate quality and leading the subsequent evaluation and
contracting effort, leading to delays in ICB goods procurement. This, too, partially
affected timely project construction, contributing to the delayed completion.
36.   The cumulative result of the various financial and management problems was a
12-month delay in completing project activities, with an overall disbursement period of
89 months compared to the 72 months foreseen at appraisal.
37.   Implementation Timing. The project's implementation period was officially
extended by one year to December 31, 1998 after the project mid-term review to allow
sufficient time to complete construction of water facilities, connection of target
beneficiaries and training of water plant staff. Delays in counterpart funding
commitments and in preparation of satisfactory ICB bidding documents were the main
reasons the project needed to be extended to meet the targets.
38.   Project Costs. The project experienced significant cost increases in Renminbi
terms, but is expected to meet appraisal estimates in US dollar terms. At appraisal, the
project was expected to cost Y 1,094.6 million or $189.1 million equivalent. As of
June 30, 1998, the project investment totaled Y 1,377.7 million or 126 percent of the
original estimate. Project financing expectations at appraisal were divided as follows:
IDA, 58 percent; various government levels, 22 percent; and communities and
individuals, 20 percent. Project financing in Renminbi terms as of June 30, 1998 was:
IDA, 51 percent; various government levels, 19 percent; and beneficiaries, 30 percent.
Beneficiaries in all provinces and regions have exceeded their planned contributions by
an average of 124 percent. The variance in project costs and project financing resulted
from two changes: (a) significant domestic inflation-contingencies were originally
estimated as 41 percent of the base cost in Renminbi terms, but in actuality, contingencies
to base costs were 78 percent; and (b) subproject redesign from mostly hand pump
systems to mostly piped water systems-this in response to beneficiary demand. The debt
service burden on projects constructed after 1994 is much larger in Renminbi terms than
originally anticipated because of a 56 percent devaluation in the Renminbi/US dollar
exchange rate that occurred in 1994. Increases in average per capita income during the
project appraisal and implementation period were on the order of 17 percent per year. The
significantly increased incomes make it likely that debt repayment will not be a
significant problem.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
39.   Project sustainability is rated as likely. Financially, systems are covering O&M
costs and are making a full or significant contribution to debt service repayment through



- 11 -
the water tariff. This provides the financial resources needed for sustainable operation.
Technically, the equipment and materials are almost all domestically produced and
widely available. The mechanical operating skills are available even in poor counties,
where hand tractors and other machinery of a technical level comparable to the water
plants are in common use. To bolster those inputs, county governments plan to continue,
in a modified form, the function of the county project office, to provide technical support
for the project's assets as well as the Government's broader rural water supply program.
Moreover, beneficiaries recognize the time savings and health benefits of safe water,
hence have a strong impetus to keep the water systems operating smoothly and finance
repairs and expansions. Health and hygiene education programs are ongoing, and the
project's contribution was to supplement the existing much larger program, so its
sustainability is considered likely. The two subsequent Bank Group-financed rural water
supply and sanitation projects have recognized the successful elements of this project,
while being modified to reflect lessons learned.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
40.   IDA's performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal was
satisfactory. This project developed from the Rural Water Supply Project (Cr. 1578), but
represented a substantial evolution in terms of poverty targeting and in the inclusion of
sanitation and health education. Identification and preparation of this project drew
directly on results from a UNDP/World Bank Water and Sanitation Program project
undertaken in Xinjiang and Inner Mongolia, both included in this project, and on a 1990
European Economic Community-funded rural water sector study and training program.
Simultaneously with preparation of this project, Bank Group staff worked with UNDP
staff in preparing a supporting UNDP project to strengthen management in beneficiary
counties, provinces and the national project office. The IDA preparation team played an
effective role in facilitating these substantial external partner efforts. That team contained
a strong mix of water and sanitation engineers familiar with the technical and
management requirements of providing the needed services, health education specialists,
and a financial analyst and economist. They effectively conveyed international experience
in similar conditions and helped translate that experience into actual design practice in
China. Appraisal was carried out with a full team of specialists, ranging over water
supply, sanitation, and health education. The economic analysis was the one area of
appraisal weakness, because it made no apparent effort to establish willingness-to-pay for
the improved sanitation. Even a simple effort would have shown that villagers lacked the
ability to replicate the highly subsidized model latrines introduced by the project.
41.   IDA teams also demonstrated satisfactory performance in project supervision. The
75 project counties and thousands of beneficiary villages presented a particular
supervision challenge. But the 13 supervision missions over the project life visited a
broad selection of project counties and villages, utilized county-level audit reports as an
important complement to direct visits, and worked consistently to strengthen the
provincial and national project office supervision efforts. Initially, rapid task manager
turnover, with three task managers in the first three years of project life, may have



- 12 -
weakened supervision efforts, although continuity was not wholly broken, as the second
task manager had been on the appraisal team and the third a member of the second task
manager's supervision team. Staff rotation forced yet another task manager change late in
the project life, although again the new task manager had been a key member of earlier
supervision teams. These changes did not impede effective Bank Group advice and Bank
Group supervision was key in helping the borrower identify why the sanitation
demonstration program was not progressing as expected, and, through the mid-term
review, rebalancing the project to adjust for that.
42.   Bank Group decentralization had an important, positive impact on supervision in
the latter stages, as a field-based engineer and a financial analyst combined with a locally
hired consultant sociologist to provide a strong supervision team located in the same city
as the national project office. This considerably increased the frequency of contact with
that and other project offices and brought welcome flexibility to project site visits. With
that change, the traditional Bank Group technique of counting mission numbers lost
relevance.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
43.   Borrower preparation perfornance was highly satisfactory. The borrower
identified appropriate beneficiary counties and played a large role in developing
sustainable village-level project financing mechanisms. The project design was based on
high levels of beneficiary financial commitment, hence project ownership. All project
counties prepared feasibility studies and preliminary project designs appropriate to their
conditions. The NPO took the lead in developing, with international consultants, the
needed design manuals.
44.   Borrower implementation performance was much more mixed. The NPO was
expected to play a major supervisory role but their administrative financing arrangements,
developed during project preparation, were not honored during implementation. With
inadequate resources, the NPO could not act with the independence and efficiency
envisioned at appraisal. Instead, they focused on ICB procurement, engineering review
and approval, training, meeting Bank Group reporting deadlines, and accompanying Bank
Group teams to the field. NPO staff quality was good, although their numbers were
inadequate. Reporting deadlines were met, and reports were of good quality, but NPO
procurement delays were common. In a larger sense, sector and financial policies
remained generally positive.
45.   Relative to their task, the six provincial project offices (PPOs) were generally
better financed and more active than the NPO. But they, too, provided less aggressive
field supervision than the Bank Group desired. In similar, but domestically funded,
development projects the provincial level typically becomes less active after appraisal,
focusing on reviewing progress reports and authorizing financial transfers. Counterpart
funding generally lagged project needs at the height of the project investment cycle and
contributed to implementation delays. Overall, in spite of having well-qualified



- 13 -
individuals in the provincial project offices, some provinces performed to satisfactory
levels while others fell short of fully satisfactory performance.
46.   With 75 counties and thousands of villages, this level is difficult to generalize
about. This level also faced the greatest challenges, as they were least familiar with Bank
Group requirements, but they build and run the systems. The counties deliver training and
oversee design, procurement and construction. The villages contribute to building and
then run their systems. Village beneficiaries demonstrate very high levels of water system
ownership. The project succeeded in reaching coverage targets while instituting
sustainable financing and operations management. On the whole, then, this group has
satisfactory performance. In many locations, "highly satisfactory" would be a fairer
assessment, but several instances of deficient performance have also been found.
47.   Covenant performance was good. Government auditors performed well in most
counties, providing additional implementation guidance.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
48.   Overall, the project is assessed to have achieved a satisfactory outcome. Highly
satisfactory aspects of the project, for which all objectives were met, were the physical
completion of water systems, and connection of almost 9 million beneficiaries, reported
high levels of beneficiary satisfaction, and high levels of cost recovery. The physical
implementation of the health and hygiene education program was highly satisfactory per
the objectives set at appraisal, but since it is not clear that the health messages have
resulted in significant behavior changes, the overall rating for this component is
satisfactory. The sanitation program and demonstration village program are considered to
be satisfactory as far as physical implementation, but because demand was not generated
for the improved latrines program, and the model villages program lacked significant
demonstration effect, the overall rating for this component is unsatisfactory.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
49.   The national, provincial and county leaders have given considerable thought as to
what type of institutional arrangements would safeguard the assets created under the
project, provide a channel for loan repayment, provide training and service assistance to
water plant staff, and continue the health education initiatives. In previous missions, the
Bank Group had been informed that where budgets permitted, counties would like to
retain the CPOs and expand their responsibilities to all rural water systems in the county.
They would be responsible for new construction but would expand their capacity to focus
more on supporting maintenance of the completed systems. During the ICR mission,
however, the Bank Group was informed that the Government's personnel reorganization
(designed to cut government staff levels by 40 to 50 percent) would mean that CPOs may
not be able to continue to receive government budget allocations. The two provinces
visited during the ICR mission stated that they were still reviewing their options, but that
converting the CPOs into Rural Water Supply Factories or Companies (RWSCs) was one
option they were considering. Apparently, the change of legal status would allow for



- 14 -
government budget support for at least the next couple of years. Other than purchasing
spare parts and selling these to the water plants as requested (with no markup), the
provincial and county leaders had no intention of charging a "service fee" to provide
maintenance and repair services or for training of staff. These services would be useful in
areas short of local materials distributors or mechanics, but the Bank Group has
encouraged the CPOs and PPOs to consider charging small service fees soon, to avoid
unfair competition with private service providers and so that as government budgets
decline a separate revenue base could be built. In addition, transfer of all fixed assets was
to be completed by project close, with the ownership of most systems residing with
village committees or township governments (in the case where a system covers multiple
villages). A third option is to allow the town or townships to manage the plants, since
many of them have some kind of existing water supply entity for the township town.
Health intervention initiatives will occur through existing service providers: doctors,
women's committees, and through school programs.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
50.   There are five key lessons from  this project that have been taken into
consideration during the preparation of the follow-on National Rural Water Supply
Project (Cr. N027-CHA) and Fourth Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Ln.
4485-CHA/Cr. 3233-CHA). First, long-term loans to poor villages can complement
village resources to sustainably and significantly improve water supply. The project
demonstrates that government capital subsidies (if needed at all) can be substantially
lower than typically argued for when discussing improved rural water for the poor. What
the project does not reveal is how much of the success reflects the social capital built up
during the era of collective action in Chinese villages during their now-ended period of
communal organization. Second, demand for improved latrines is correlated with higher
income levels, and, in contrast to improved water supply, the income levels of the rural
poor in this project were too low to support the latrine improvement strategy. Third,
investing in model villages is not a successful strategy for yielding demonstration effects
when the external government financing needed to construct the model is not available to
other villages seeking to replicate the model. Fourth, training of water plant managers,
operators and accountants is critical to the sustainability of the water plant subprojects
and proceeds of the Credit should be made available to ensure that adequate training is
taking place. Fifth, intensified traditional approaches to health education have reached a
saturation point. In order to increase the acceptance of health messages and behavior
modification, the inhibitors for improved practice must be identified, and the health
education program modified accordingly.



- 15 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial     Partial   Negligible     Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                             /
Sector policies                                      4
Financial objectives                    I
Institutional development               /
Physical objectives                     J
Poverty reduction                                                                  I
Gender issues
Other social objectives                                                            I
Environmental objectives                                                           I
Public sector management                                                           I
Private sector development                                                         /
Other (specify)                                                                    I
B. Project Sustainability                Likely             Unlikely           Uncertain
_
C. IDA Performance                   Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                                                    /
Preparation assistance                                            /
Appraisal                                                         I
Supervision                                                       I
D. Borrower Performance               Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deflcient
Preparation                                  I
Implementation                                                     /
Covenant compliance                                                /
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of Outcome       Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory      Highly
Satisfactory                                     Unsatisfactory



- 16 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK GROUP LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit Title           Purpose                                 Year of          Status
Approval
Preceding operation
Cr. 1578-CHA                Water supply; health education to rural    1985         Closed
Rural Water Supply Project    areas
Following operations
Cr. N027-CHA                Water supply; sanitation/health education  1997      Implementation
National Rural Water Supply to poor rural areas
Project
Ln. 4485-CHA/Cr. 3233-CHA  Water supply; sanitation/health education  1999      Board completed,
Fourth Rural Water Supply and to poor rural areas                                not yet signed
Sanitation Project
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                         Date planned         Date actual/latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)         N/A                      April 1990
Preparation                                        N/A                       1990/1991
Appraisal                                          N/A                    May-June 1991
Negotiation                                        N/A                    December 1991
Board presentation                                 N/A                   February 11, 1992
Signing                                            N/A                    April 10, 1992
Effectiveness                                      N/A                     July23, 1992
Project completion                            December 1997               December 1998
Loan closing                                    April 1998              December 31, 1998
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATE AND ACTUAL /a
($ million)
FY93      FY94       FY95      FY96       FY97       FY98       FY99
Appraisal estimate         26         51        76         94         107       110
Actual                    7.00       41.38     47.78      77.84      99.34     110.63    112.42/b
Actual as percent estimate    26.92  81.14     62.87      82.81      92.84     100.57     100.0
Date of final disbursement   08/03/93   06/29/94   07/27/95   06/24/96   07/11/97   03/24/98   05/24/99
/a Data from World Bank Group Loan Department.
b Actual disbursed amount differs from the appraisal estimate due to changes in SDRIUS dollar exchange rate.
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Not applicable for this project.
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
Not applicable for this project.
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
None



- 17-
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
(Y million)
Appraisal estimate          Latest estimate (6/30/98)
Item                                Local  Foreign    Total         Local Foreign    Total
Water supply                        319.3  322.7       642.0       549.0   666.7   1,215.7
Sanitation construction              31.3    0.0       31.3         43.9      0.0      43.9
Health and hygiene education         22.8    9.7        32.5        15.3      5.5      20.8
Technicalassistanceandtraining       26.9    8.4        35.2         7.4      2.6      10.0
Institutional establishment andproject  25.8    6.6     32.4        67.9     19.4      87.3
management
Total Base Cost             426.1  347.3       773.4
Contingencies                       177.0  144.1       321.2
Total Project Cost          603.1  491.5    1,094.6        683.5   694.2   1,377.7
TABLE 8B: PROJECT COSTS
($ million)
Item                                    Appraisal estimate           Latest estimate (6/30/98)
Local  Foreign    Total         Local Foreign    Total
Water supply                         60.1   60.8    120.9            66.8     81.0   147.8
Sanitation construction               5.9    --        5.9            5.3      0        5.3
Health and hygiene education          4.3    1.8       6.1            1.9      0.7      2.5
Technical assistance and training     5.1    1.6       6.6            0.9      0.3      1.2
histitution establishment and project  4.9    1.2      6.1            8.2      2.3    10.6
management
Total Base Cost               80.3   65.4    145.6
Contingencies                        23.9   19.5      43.5
Total Project Cost           104.2   84.9    189.1           83.1     84.4   167.5
TABLE 8c: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Item                                    Appraisal estimate           Latest estimate (6/30/98)
Local  Foreign    Total         Local Foreign    Total
IDA                                  25.1   84.9    110.0                              84.9
Domestic contribution                79.1     -       79.1                             82.6
Total                        104.2   84.9    189.1                            167.5
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Not applicable.



- 18 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-          Original   Revised
Agree-             nant  Present fulfillment fulfillment
ment    Section   Type   Status    date       date               Description of covenant/a           Comments
DCA    3.04           1      C                         Borrower to open and maintain six provincial
revolving accounts, each of an amount equivalent to
three months' local expenditures by 4/30/92
DCA    4.01(a)(i)     I      C                         Borrower to maintain records and accounts of central
components
DCA    4.01(a)(ii)    1      C                         Borrower to consolidate the audit of records and
accounts of provinces.
DCA    4.01(b)        I      C                         Borrower to fumish annual audit reports including
those of Special Account no later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year.
DCA    Sch.3. 1      5       C                         Borrower to maintain NPO with staffing and functions
satisfactory to IDA.
DCA    Sch.3 .2      9      CD                         Borrower to prepare and consolidate annual project
implementation plan (PIP for the following year for
IDA's review and approval by Oct. 15 each year).
DCA    Sch.3.3       5       C                         Borrower to publish design manuals for nonpiped
water supply facilities and sanitation facilities.
DCA    Sch.3.4       9       C                         Responsibility for review of water supply system
& PA    Sch.2.11.2                                     designs are: NPO: Y 2.0 million or more;
PPO:>Y 500,000 - <Y 2.0 million;
CPO: Y 500,000 or less
PA      3.01(a)       I      C                         Provinces to maintain records and accounts of
activities and transactions within its jurisdiction.
PA      3.01(b)       I      C                         Province to fumish annual audit reports no later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year.
PA      Sch.I.I.A.2   10     C                         ICB goods contract to be grouped in bid packages of
$200,000 or more.
PA      Sch.I.I.C    10      C                         For civil works, > $400,000: by NCB, < $400,000: by
local shopping with at least three quotations,
<$20,000: by force account with aggregate total no
more than $13.5 million. Total local shopping and
force account not to exceed $ 63.0 million.
PA      Sch.I.D.1    9       C                         IDA to review contracts above $500,000 for goods and
$2.0 million for civil works. Contract to be fumished
to IDA prior to first payment out of Special Account.
PA      Sch.2. 1     5       C                         Province to maintain PPO and CPOs satisfactory to
IDA.
PA    & Sch.2.11. 1    9    CD                         Province to prepare annual PIP for following year by
Minutes                                                Sep. I of each year. PIPs to include information on
of Neg.                                                high fluoride > 2.0 mg/liter villages.
PA      Sch.2.11.3    3      C                         Provinces to onlend credit at: maximum maturity of
20 years including 5 years grace; interest of 4% a
year; provinces to bear all foreign exchange risks.
PA      Sch.2.11.4    2     CP                         Water charges to cover full O&M costs and deprecia-
tion or credit repayment, excluding grants from
govemment.
Covenant Class:                                                                Status:
I = Accounts/audits                8 = Indigenous people                    C   = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting   CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10 = Project implementation not        CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project    covered by categories 1-9
funds                        11   Sectoral or cross-sectoral            Abbreviations:
4 = Counterpart funding                budgetary or other resources          NCB = National Competitive Bidding
5 = Management aspects of the          allocation                           PIP = Project Implementation Plan
project or executing agency  12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants            regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement      13 = Other
/a Description of covenant includes the original fulfillment date.



- 19-
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP)
TABLE 12: IDA RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Actual /a
Stage of project cycle                                                                Weeks                         $'000
Preparation to appraisal                                                               102.1                        302.9
Appraisal                                                                               21.1                          73.2
Negotiations through Board approval                                                       7.1                         25.6
Supervision                                                                            111.6                        362.3
Completion /b                                                                           14.5                          25.0
Total                                                                      256.3                         789.0
/a IDA management information system did not record the planned staff-weeks and planned cost.
/b Completion figures are estimates only; actual figures not yet known.
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance
Stage of project                No. of   Days in        Specialized staff skills    rating /a
cycle        Month/year  persons   field               represented           IP/b   DO/b            Types of problems
Through Appraisal      N/A         N/A      N/A   Financial, engineering, economic,  N/A   N/A   NIA
sociology, health education,
enviromnent
Appraisal through   May-Jun 1999    6       N/A   Financial, engineering, economic,  N/A   N/A   N/A
Board approval                                      sociology, health education
Supervision /c       Jun 1992       5         6    Financial, engineering, sanitation   N/R   N/R   Project Launch Workshop
Jul-Aug 1993     6        21    Financial, engineering, sanitation,  2  1     Pass through of foreign exchange risk to
health                                       county; slow ICB preparation
Jul-Aug 1993     5        16    Financial, health education,    I      I      ICB procurement delay, counter part
engineering, sanitation                      fund delay, shortage of project office
staff,
Jul 1994       4        22    Health education, economic,     S      S      Some project offices not adequately
engineering                                  staffed; lack of NPO funding.
Oct 1994       1         2    Economic                        N/A   N/A   Informal discussions with Borrower in
Beijing; ICB procurement delay, and
lack NPO office fumding.
Apr 1995       1         2    Economic                        U      S      Overall project delay due to slow ICB,
lack of counterpart funds
Nov 1995 &      4         19    Financial, engineering, economic,  S   S      Mid-term review; some counterpart
Jan-Feb 1996     4        30    sociology, health education                  fimding delays; one year lag in water
supply program; slow adoption of
latrine program
Oct-Nov 1996     7        13    Financial, engineering, economic,  S    S     Slow adoption of latrine program; one
sociology, health education                  year lag in water supply program
Nov 1997       3         8    Financial, engineering           S      S      Poor financial records; poor operational
management
Jan 1998       3        8    Financial, engineering           S      S      No problems in Guangxi
Sep 1998       6        15    Financial, engineering, economic,  S   S      Possible misprocurement; poor financial
sociology, health education                  records; tariffnot covering debt service
in some cases
Comnpletion       Nov-Dec 1998      6        13    Financial, engineering, economic,  S   S      Tariff not covering debt service in some
sociology                                   cases, possible misprocurement
/a 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; U: Unsatisfactory; S: Satisfactory.
/b IP: Implementation status; DO: Development objectives.
/c Since project task management tramsferred to the Resident Mission in February 1998, numerous meetings have taken place during
which project issues were discussed. These meetings, which impact project supervision, are not shown in the table.






-21-                         ANNEX A
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
I am very glad to inform you that NPO agrees, in principle, the ICR text agreed by the
two sides through talking on the line on June 25, 1999. The effort and the sprit of
cooperation made by the Bank are really appreciated.
Besides, I also want to inform you of the NPO's comments on the ICB management, i.e.,
to the causes for ICB procurement delay, NPO and the Bank should commonly shoulder
the responsibilities. Especially in the process of ICB 1 and 2, NPO did not finish the
bidding documents in line with the requirements of the Bank, as led to the delay of goods
supply, hence hindered the overall progress of the project. On the Bank's side, the
frequent change of task manager, too long the time of reviewing and approving the
bidding documents, frequent changes of procurement experts, and different standards of
reviewing and approving all bring impact to the ICB procurement delay. For example,
after the review and confirmation of the first ICB bidding documents by the Bank, the
procurement was completed. Yet, the second ICB procurement for the same goods/
materials/equipment, with the same bidding documents in use, was asked by a new expert
of reviewing and approving the procurement to be changed greatly on its format, as is one
of the causes of ICB procurement delay. This lesson is also to be leamed.



-22 -                           ANNEXB
ANNEX B: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
November 23 to December 4, 1998
AIDE-MEMOIRE
A.    INTRODUCTION
1.    An IDA mission consisting of Ms. Dawn Vermilya (mission leader/financial analyst),
Mr. George Plant (sanitary engineer), Mr. Mark Wu (project analyst), Mr. Charles Andrews
(water supply specialist), and Ms. Li Xiaofeng (project assistant), visited Inner Mongolia and
Yunnan between November 23 to December 4, 1998, to conduct the implementation completion
mission (final supervision mission) for the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (RWSS).
Mr. Guy Alaerts (water quality specialist) accompanied the mission in Inner Mongolia to review
fluoride issues, and Mr. Huang Ping (sociologist) accompanied the mission in Yunnan to review
health education, sanitation and beneficiary participation issues. In each province and
autonomous region the mission met with provincial leaders to discuss provincial project issues.
Meetings were also held with the National Project Office (NPO), Inner Mongolia and Yunnan
Autonomous Region Project Offices (PPOs), and the Tuoketuo and Baoshan County Project
Offices (CPOs). A wrap-up meeting with the NPO, SDPC and MOF was held on December 10,
1998.
2.    The mission expresses its sincere appreciation to the provincial leaders, NPO, PPOs,
CPOs and officials of other agencies for the assistance and cooperation provided the mission. In
particular, meeting arrangements with the Inner Mongolia Epidemiological Station and fluoride
and arsenic specialists were valuable to the mission. This aide-memoire summarizes the findings
and recommendations of the mission, as well as next steps on further preparation of the
Implementation Completion Report. The main text of the aide-memoire deals with project-wide
issues. A list of persons met is attached as Annex 1. Annex 2 is the government's draft
Operational Plan for the project. Annex 3 is a summary of the mission findings on the status of
fluoride contamination, monitoring and treatment in Inner Mongolia. Annex 4 is a summary of
the audit irregularities to be addressed. Annex 5 contains Bank's advise on institutional
arrangements for the water systems during the operational phase. The mission bases its views on
the most recent national progress report as of June 1998 and site visits during the past year to
Guangxi, Xinjiang, Gansu, Inner Mongolia and Yunnan (the Hunan visit was cancelled due to
severe flooding).
B.    PROJECT IMPACTS
3.    In terms of physical achievement, the mission considers the project to be highly
satisfactory. Based on the mid-term 1998 Progress Report, project beneficiaries total 7.92
million, but it is expected that by project close on December 31, 1998 the original target of 9.097
million beneficiaries will have received safe and sufficient drinking water, and this is further
evidenced by the final connection rates seen in Inner Mongolia and Yunnan of 100% and 99%,
respectively. A total of more than 2400 pipe water systems and 70,000 hand pumps and cisterns



- 23 -                          ANNEXB
will have been constructed by project close. The capacity of the systems built allows for future
expansion to cover up to about 12 million beneficiaries. Where improved water supply systems
have been installed and complemented by health and hygiene education and improved sanitation
facilities, clear benefits have accrued to the beneficiaries. The nature of these benefits vary
depending on the initial water and health problems. The problems addressed in this project have
been numerous and include: seasonal lack of water, polluted water sources, high fluoride and
arsenic content water, remotely located water sources, high levels of dysentery, hepatitis and
other water-borne diseases. The more dramatic the original water problem, the greater the
accrued benefits have been to the village beneficiaries, but in almost all cases beneficiaries view
the project as having substantially reduced their time to fetch water and/or improved their
families' long-term health. Physical targets for health and hygiene education training and project
office staff training are also likely to be fully realized, if not exceeded. The revised estimates for
the sanitation program are also likely to be met, if not exceeded. Based on the improved emphasis
on training, the mission upgraded the status of training from unsatisfactory to satisfactory.
4.     Concerning institutional establishment and long-term sustainability of project assets, the
mission is concerned with the deterioration of both cost recovery levels and water system
maintenance practices seen in the past two missions. Based on the findings of the last two
missions, the Bank is concerned that unless improvements are made on both counts a significant
portion of the piped water systems will have a reduced service life and therefore reduce the
project's future impact. For this reason, the mission downgraded the status of financial covenants
(cost recovery) from satisfactory to unsatisfactory. Further investigation is expected to clarify the
extent of the problems with cost recovery and the underlying reasons at which time the status of
financial covenants may be reverted to satisfactory.
5.    Beneficiary participation though modest during the feasibility and design stages, has had
a strong impact in altering the type of water supply system received-- hand pump systems were
converted to piped water systems, and in reducing the scale of the sanitation program -- it was cut
in half. This reflects beneficiaries increased ability to pay for a higher service standard, and
beneficiaries have contributed well over 25% of the upfront project costs, plus have paid
substantial amounts to cover the costs of house hold connections (these costs are outside the
project scope) and continue to support the majority of systems through substantial tariff
payments. Beneficiaries have shown much less willingness to invest their own funds and time in
upgrading their private sanitation facilities.
6.    The Borrower provided its views on implementation phase of this project. As of June 30,
1998, 2318 water plants have been constructed, 87.27 percent of the original plan have been
finished. 8.89 million rural residents have been benefiting from the project. During last five
years, 84 demonstrative villages have been established. Local beneficiaries benefited from the
improved sanitation and health education and initiated to set up 12 demonstrative villages and
7,124 household latrines in non project areas. Through project implementation, economic
benefits and social impact has improved remarkably as well as having access to improved water.
A. survey conducted by the NPO shows about 203 water plants revenue exceed their cost; 960
water plants are not fully covering their operation and depreciation costs. Hunan, Guangxi and
Xinjiang have fared the best on cost recovery. The Borrower thinks government subsidies can
solve the cost recovery issue.



-24 -                           ANNEX B
C.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Project Offices
7.    The National Project Office is an experienced team but is understaffed to meet the needs
of simultaneously implementing two projects and preparing a third project and managing the
other responsibilities of the NPHCC's water supply program. In general, the provincial project
offices visited in Inner Mongolia and Yunnan have reasonable staff levels and competency. The
Yunnan and Inner Mongolia PPO staff levels are presently stressed because they have been
implementing two projects at the same time (RWSS and NRWS) but this is expected to improve
soon with the completion of RWSS. County Project Offices visited vary in capacity, but generally
the staff employed are qualified and diligent. In most project offices visited there was little
turnover of technical staff during the project.
Disbursements and Reallocation of Credit Proceeds
8.    As of February 8, 1999, the Credit has disbursed SDR  112,156,709.97 (US$
78,708,620.87 equivalent). This represents 99.8% of the Credit. The Bank received a request
from the Ministry of Finance on November 16 to reallocate credit proceeds from the Goods,
Consulting Services & Training and Unallocated categories to Civil Works. The Bank reallocated
the Credit proceeds as requested before project close on December 31, 1998.
Audit Findings
9.    County audit reports in the five provinces (except for Hunan) have been reviewed during
the past two missions. County audit reports have in many cases provided good detail on problem
areas and areas for improvement, but some have been weak in identifying procurement related
problems (see para. 23). The mission requests that the audit discrepancies in Annex 4 for Yunnan
and Inner Mongolia's 1997 audit reports be explained or rectified before April 15, 1999. Based
on the responses, Association management will decide whether Credit proceeds should be
returned to the Association.
D.    HEALTH EDUCATION AND SANITATION
Health Education
10.   By June 30, 1998, more than 8.1 million people had been trained under the project of
which 43% were men, 36% were women and 20% were children. In addition, almost 192,000
people have been trained as trainers and are capable of continuing to spread the health messages
generated under the project. The largest group trained for this purpose are community women,
totaling more than 127,000.
11.   In a Yunnan report, based on sampling interviews and observation, it appears that
behavior changes have been significant when compared with baseline survey data. Use of latrine
has risen for housewives from 91.6% to 95.2%, and for school-aged children from 43.6% to
85.95%. The incidence of washing hands before eating has risen for housewives from 2.9% to
83.2%, and for school children from 55.7% to 97.5%. Drinking boiled water among housewives
has risen from 15.8% to 74.7%, and among school children from 24.8% to 93.39%. As the report
realizes, there may be many other factors such as socio-economic development which have
played roles in these behavior changes, but nonetheless the project itself did help beneficiaries to



- 25 -                          ANNEX B
improve their hygiene behavior and sanitation environment. The mission recommends that all
project counties and provinces include such survey results in their completion report.
Sanitation
12.    Sanitation targets (revised at mid-term) have been exceeded. As of June 30, 1998, latrine
coverage has reached 106% of target, animal enclosures have met its target, garbage dumps and
drainage canals have exceeded targets. In total, 75 demonstration villages have been completed,
which meets the targets set at the mid-term review.
E.    FINANCLAL PERFORMANCE
Project Expenditures
13.   As of June 30, 1998 project investment totaled Y1,378 million, or 126% of original
estimate. Total project investment as of December 31, 1998 is expected to rise to about 150% of
the original estimate once the reallocation takes place, and civil works and ICB allocations are
finalized. About 88% of project investments have been spent on water supply, to date.
Counterpart Funds
14.   As of June 30, 1998 counterpart financing had reached 93% of the revised commitment
levels (commitment levels were revised upward by 39% at Mid-term Review). Both Xinjiang and
Yunnan have performed very well and have surpassed their targets by 137% and 105%,
respectively. Beneficiaries in all provinces have exceeded their planned contributions (both cash
and in-kind) by an average of 124%.
Cost Recovery
15.   As of June 30, 1998 the Progress Report showed that average water charges did not
cover average water costs (O&M and debt service) in Inner Mongolia and Yunnan, and Gansu
did not report on the matter. This in combination with the site inspection in Baoshan County,
Yunnan, which showed a general problem with cost recovery, especially to cover the debt
service, has prompted the mission to seek further clarification on the extent of the problem. After
reviewing three sites in Baoshan, the mission concluded that in two cases relatively small tariff
increases would be required to meet debt service repayment responsibilities and the third plant
would need a more substantial increase to the same level as anticipated for the other plants.
16.   During its mission, the team observed three main areas which contribute to the cost
recovery difficulties in Yunnan. First, in many instances, facilities were overdesigned. The water
consumption estimates used for planning purposes were unrealistically high, and in reality, plants
may be operating at only half of their actual capacity. Residents in many areas are still resorting
to their original water sources for tasks such as washing their clothes, bathing, and feeding the
animals, and using the new improved water for drinking and cooking purposes only. Second, in
many areas, there are problems with collection of tariffs. In a number of plants visited during the
mission, tariffs were collected only on one-third to one-half of the water actually produced.
Inadequate tariff collection appears to stem from two sources: water theft and lapses in collection
time. In a number of instances, villagers have determined techniques to obtain water without
activating their meters, and using this stolen water to irrigate their fields. Also, there are extended
gaps in between collection times in some villages, with the end result that the tariffs are not



-26 -                           ANNEXB
collected on water used during this gap period. Finally, a possible third cause of cost recovery
difficulties is that beneficiaries do not appear to understand that their new systems were financed
through World Bank loans and need to be repaid through tariff collections. This was not
explained to them at the time of the systems' construction, nor were initial tariffs set high enough
for them to understand this. This may therefore contribute to their willingness to steal water and
their poor efforts in tariff collection.
17.   The mission requests that Yunnan and Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region Project
Offices to report by March 15, 1999 the name of the facilities not meeting cost recovery terms,
the number of beneficiaries affected, and whether the plant is currently earning enough through
revenues to cover operations and maintenance and a portion of debt service, or whether the
revenues don't even cover debt service in an attempt to further clarify the situation.
Financial Management of Water Systems
18.   The mission found the quality of financial management to be highly variable atthe water
plants which it visited and would recommend further financial training of staff at water plants in
both Inner Mongolia and Yunnan. While in some instances, extensive receipts were kept of
expenses and tariff collection, in others, staff had poor records and no knowledge of debt
repayment obligations. The mission also found one instance in Inner Mongolia of funds for a
water plant being kept in a personal bank account, and reminds project offices to notify plant
staff that funds must be kept in a separate official bank account. In another case in Yunnan, the
bank account statement didn't reconcile with the cash balance (apparently because household
meters had been purchased by the water plant to provide to households free of charge to
encourage them to return to a metering system). Also, provincial and county project officials
should pass on relevant information concerning the schedule of debt repayment to water plant
staff in order to better help them assess their financial situation. In Inner Mongolia, water plant
account staff were frequently not available and records sometimes locked away.
F.    TECHNICAL SUSTAINABILITY
Engineering
19.   Design and construction of water supply systems is generally satisfactory. Engineering
aspects may impact service sustainability as follows:
*  Some system designs may not represent "least cost options". But this applies only to water
abstraction and transmission capacity, and is probably not significant vis-A-vis service
affordability and willingness-to-pay.
* Apparently optimistic billable water consumption design parameters have resulted in actual
operating levels significantly below design capacities. It is probably too early to tell whether this
under-utilization is a permanent state and thus a result of system "overdesign".
* Certain "outlier" engineering deficiencies may shorten the service-life of individual water
plants, or compromise water quality unless rectified, e.g. improperly installed main meters, well
heads not sealed, poor ventilation and drainage at installations, improperly installed household
meters.
PPO and CPO Design and Construction Supervision
20.   Construction supervision appears to have been adequate. But some sub-project feasibility
studies have clearly not evolved appropriate, least cost service options for consumers. This



- 27 -                         ANNEX B
reflects upon CPOs' design capabilities, and the PPO's supervision performance. This is a key
area for improvement in subsequent projects.
Operations and maintenance
21.   Water plants are presently delivering a reliable service of clean water to satisfied
consumers. But O&M practices and regimes need to be improved to ensure the continuation of
these service levels, particularly production monitoring and recording, certain key preventative
maintenance procedures, ability to carry out basic repairs, and water disinfection.
Effectiveness of operations and maintenance training
22.   O&M training has not yet achieved requisite O&M competencies and incentives amongst
water plant operators and managers. More training and constant retraining will be necessary.
Water plant staff turnover has been high, particularly amongst accountants.
G.    PROCUREMENT
23.   In both counties visited the method used for procurement of civil works above the force
account limit was not in accordance with World Bank guidelines. In Tuoketuo County non-force
account civil works contracts were negotiated and in Baoshan County the Government of China
procurement regulations were followed and marking was used. The Bank asked for and received
reports from both counties to better determine the effect of the procurement practice used on the
final selection of contractor and on the difference of the contract price to that of the engineering
design cost. The mission will forward its findings to Bank Management for guidance on whether
the procurement practices as constitute misprocurement. Due to these findings the mission has
downgraded the project's procurement status from satisfactory to unsatisfactory.
H.    FLUORIDE   AND   ARSENIC   CONTAMINATION   IN   WB-FINANCED
INVESTMENTS
24.   In Inner Mongolia, fluoride and arsenic are found in many aquifers, often in
concentrations exceeding national standards. Annex 3 provides an overview of the current
knowledge regarding the occurrence of fluoride and arsenic, and the technological options for
their removal.
25.   Tuoketuo County is generally considered a "hot spot" for fluoride and, to a lesser extent,
for arsenic. Fluoride would occur in different concentrations in different places but be of a
county-wide concern, whereas high arsenic concentrations were found in only some of the
villages. Not all wells or villages have been analyzed for arsenic as yet, but the (now derelict)
shallow wells in Naizegai have arsenic levels that exceed the standards. In addition, ample
evidence shows that the shallow wells, which were before the project the means of the rural
population to have access to water, had been supplying water with a substantially higher fluoride
concentration than the deeper wells that have been installed by the project. The county Anti-
Epidemic Disease Station samples all water plants twice annually and follows the development of
the fluoride concentration since several years. The record on arsenic is less complete so far. None
of the water plants under this project is reported to contain arsenic in levels exceeding national
standards.



- 28 -                          ANNEX B
26.    The mission gave particular attention to three water plants containing too high fluoride
levels (Yongshengyu, Dabeiyao and Masiyao). Although the CPO believes that the analysis
results suggest a gradual deterioration of the fluoride contamination over the past two or three
years, the mission rather concluded that the scatter in the analysis results suggests that the trend is
not statistically significant.
27.    The mission inspected a small filtration pilot plant for fluoride removal based on the
"boiled stone" technology of Hohhot University (see Annex 3) in Yongshengyu. Three months of
experimenting have been concluded and data are currently being analyzed. If this material proves
to be an effective adsorbing medium, the CPO will install full-scale filters in the mentioned water
plants. Importantly, the CPO has agreed earlier to not consider installing household-based filters
because such decentralized treatment may be less reliable and more costly in view of the fact that
the filter's operation does require a minimum of technical capacity and diligent operation.
Concern exists about the technical feasibility, the cost, and the institutional complexity of the
fluoride removal technologies in rural water supply. This argues against early investment in
additional fluoride removal filters.
28.   It is recognized that all plants still yield water with some fluoride, of which the
concentration in some cases exceeds the standards. However, also in the latter cases the fluoride
content of the new water supply is much lower than in the pre-project situation. Because the
disease incidence and seriousness are directly proportional to the daily intake of fluoride (and
arsenic), it can be concluded that the project has led to a substantial improvement in the quality of
the drinking water, and hence, has a positive impact on health. Installing fluoride removal filters,
of which the feasibility remains to be demonstrated, has a high opportunity cost as many counties
in Inner Mongolia have not yet been equipped with improved water supply. Therefore, the project
has been cost-effective.
29.   It is recommended that the County Anti-Epidemic Disease Station analyzes the water of
the plants on an annual basis only but in a more systematic fashion for both fluoride and arsenic,
and that the accuracy of the analyses is improved. An important objective of this monitoring is to
detect at an early stage any new leaching of the contaminants from the soils into the wells.
Similarly, the efforts to develop a feasible and cheap method for fluoride removal in the rural
setting should be stepped up. It is suggested that the World Bank could consider providing
financial assistance for this purpose under a subsequent rural water supply loan.
I.    INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR SUSTAINABILITY OF PROJECT
INVESTMENTS
30.   The National Project Office has prepared a draft Operational Plan which is in Annex 2.
31.    The provincial and county leaders encountered had given considerable thought as to what
type of institutional arrangements would safeguard the assets created under the project, provide a
channel for loan repayment, provide training and service assistance to water plant staff, and
continue the health education initiatives. In previous missions, the Bank had been informed that
where budgets permitted counties would like to retain the CPOs, but expand their responsibilities
to cover all rural water systems in the county. They would be responsible for new construction
but would expand their capacity to focus more on maintenance of the completed systems. During
this mission, however, the mission was informed that the Government's personnel reorganization
(designed to cut Government staff levels by 40-50%) would mean that CPO's may not be able to



-29 -                          ANNEX B
continue to receive Government budget allocations. The two provinces visited stated that they
were still reviewing their options, but that converting the CPOs into Rural Water Supply
Factories or Companies (RWSCs) was one option they were considering. Apparently, the change
of legal status would allow for Government budget support for at least the next couple of years.
Other than purchasing spare parts and selling these to the water plants as requested (with no
markup), the provincial and county leaders had no intention of charging a "service fee" to
provide maintenance and repair services or for training of staff. The mission encourages the
CPOs and PPOs to consider charging small service fees soon, so that as Government budgets
decline a separate revenue base could be built. In addition, transfer of all fixed assets will be
completed by Project Close, with the ownership of most systems residing with village committees
or township governments (in the case where a system covers multiple villages). Health
intervention initiatives will occur through existing service providers: doctors, women's
committees, and through school programs. Bank reviewed with the Borrower international
experience of alternative institutional arrangements during the operational phase of the project
(see Annex 5).
J.    ICR PREPARATION STEPS
32.   The mission discussed preparation steps for the ICR in detail with the staff from the
NPO. The mission provided NPO with (i) a Chinese version of the World Bank's ICR
Preparation Good Practices, and (ii) an outline for the Operational Plan (see Annex 2). The
mission requests that the draft of this Operational Plan be provided to the Bank by end mid-
March 1999 for its comments, and a final version by end April 1999. By March 15, 1999 the
World Bank should supply a draft of the Implementation Completion Report to NPO for its
review and comments. By March 15, 1999 NPO should provide a draft of its Evaluation Report
to the Bank and its final version by May 15, 1999. The ICR will be published by June 1999.



-30 -                          ANNEXB
ANNEX 1
PERSONS MET
Mr. Chen Huan       Deputy Division Chief, Ministry of Finance
Ms. Hou Yan        Division Chief, State Development and Planning Commission
Mr. Zhang Yiren     Standing Deputy Director, NPO, CRWSSP
Mr. Liu Jiayi      Deputy Director, NPO, CRWSSP
Mr. Luo Fengji     Deputy Division Chief, NPO, CRWSSP
Mr. Shi Risheng    Deputy Division Chief, NPO, CRWSSP
Mr. Zhao Zhenrong   Acting Division Chief, NPO, CRWSSP
Mr. Meng Shuchen    Division Chief, NPO, CRWSSP
Mr. Wang Zhanshe   Interpreter, NPO, CRWSSP
Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region
Mr. Bao Jinsheng   Deputy Director, Autonomous Region Health Bureau
Ms. Li              Division Chief, Autonomous Region Financial Bureau
Ms. Bao Lanman     Project Officer, Autonomous Region Financial Bureau
Mr. Guo Yigang     Director, PPO
Ms. Li Wenhua      Director, Hohhot Project Office
Ms. Guo Yaqin      Accountant, PPO
Mr. Qi Yibin        Accountant, PPO
Mr. Zhang Ziyuna    Project Officer, PPO
Mr. Kou Wenhua      Project Officer, PPO
Ms. Ren Lihua       Interpreter
Tuoketuo County
Mr. Zhao Zhenbing   Magistrate
Mr. Yue Gaohui      Secretary General
Mr. Jiang Shouzhi    Chairman, County People Congress Commission
Mr. Gao Shanfeng    Deputy Magistrate
Mr. Kang Xiaohu     Deputy Magistrate
Mr. Zhai Zhenxiong   Director, CPO
Ms. Ma Yuzhen       Deputy Director
Mr. Liu Guoping     Engineer, CPO
Mr. Li Guanghu      Accountant, CPO
Mr. Fu Lianyao      Project Officer, CPO
Mr. Li Zhenbi       Project Officer, CPO
Yunnan Province
Mr. Yang Chaobin    Deputy Director, Provincial Health Bureau
Mr. Lu Yunsong      Deputy  Division  Chief, Provincial Development and  Planning
Commission
Mr. Du Biao         Deputy  Division  Chief, Provincial Development and  Planning
Commission
Ms. Lu Xuefan       Project Officer, Provincial Development and Planning Commission
Ms. Shen Fan        Project Officer, Provincial Finance Bureau



- 31-                          ANNEX B
Mr. Zhao Hongshen   Acting Director, PPO
Mr. Wan Jixin       Accountant, PPO
Mr. Luo Yanghang    Engineer, PPO
Ms. Yang Xuemei    Accountant, PPO
Mr. Zeng Qingyun    Interpreter
Baoshan County
Mr. Yang Jingjian   Mayor
Mr. Chen Xuefan     Vice Mayor
Mr. Yu Zhiqiu       Director, City Bureau
Mr. Yang Zhengjun   Deputy Director, City Finance Bureau
Mr. Li Jiabin       Project Officer, City Finance Bureau
Mr. Huang Jian      Deputy Director, City Planning Bureau
Mr. Yang Yuhui      Deputy Director, Prefecture Health Bureau
Mr. Gao Zhixian     Director, City Health Bureau
Mr. Yu Yingbo       Deputy Director, City Health Bureau
Mr. Zhao Weidong    Director, CPO
Mr. Zhang Yanglin    Deputy Director, CPO



- 32 -                       ANNEX B
ANNEX 2
DRAFT OPERATION PLAN
The National Project Office (NPO) conducted a water plant operation survey in
December 1998. Based on the survey, NPO thinks all water plants should strengthen
operational management and technical assistance because sustainability is critical to this
project. In order to better operational performance in the future, NPO drafted the
following operation plan:
1.    Water plants, in which water supply production hasn't reached full capacity,
should strengthen mass mobilization, encouraging local peasants to adopt household
connections, so that the water plant's revenue can cover its costs. NPO will coordinate
local governments to speed up household connections and increase beneficiaries.
2.    In most water plants water is not regarded as a kind of commercial good, which is
the key reason why water plant's revenue does not cover their costs. NPO will strengthen
training for trainers in order to instill the concept that water is a commercial good. In the
meantime, training courses should particularly focus on financial management.
3.    Regarding CPOs conversion, there are three options at present. One is to continue
the existing CPOs operation if possible. NPO prefers this option because CPOs are very
familiar with the project and sustainability can easily be assured if management is
strengthened and service levels are improved. Converting the CPOs into Rural Water
Supply Factories or Companies is the second option. The last option is to transfer all
fixed assets to townships or towns and water plants will be managed and operated by
townships or towns.
NPO is considering the conversion and functions of CPOs and water plants as one
of the most important matters. NPO will discuss these issues with related agencies and
hope they can be solved during the provincial/prefecture and county governments'
institutional reform.



- 33 -                         ANNEX B
ANNEX 3
FLUORIDE AND ARSENIC CONTAMINATION OF GROUNDWATER IN INNER
MONGOLIA
A substantial part of the Inner Mongolia region is known to have groundwater aquifers
containing moderate to high concentrations of fluoride. In addition, in specific areas the
groundwater also has been reported to contain high concentrations of arsenic.
The region contaminated with fluoride is identified to cover a 60-160 km wide belt that
runs west to north-east over a distance of approximately 1,400 km, from west of Linhe to Chifeng
and Ulanhot. In shallow groundwater, concentrations can vary from below 0.7 to well above 4
mgF/I. Some areas in this belt are to be considered "hot spots", with a high proportion of the
wells (more than 50% of those tested) containing fluoride concentrations of 2-4 mg/I. Among
those hot spots are Tuoketuo (Togtoh) County and possibly small parts of adjacent counties.
Five areas are reported to be contaminated with arsenic: a small zone close to Chifeng; a
strip of contingent counties including Tuoketuo County, the western part ofHelinger (Hohinger)
County that borders Tuoketuo County, and Tumd Right-banner (Youqi) County which lies
between Tuoketuo County and Guyang County; larger areas in the Bao Meng region (between
the Yin Shan mountain range and the Yellow River, around Baotou and Wuyuan); areas west of
Bengkou; and some areas on the Loess Plateau across the Yellow River south of Bao Meng. In
contrast to the other areas, Chifeng lies some 600 km to the east of Hohhot and is clearly isolated
from the other contaminated areas, which all lie to the west of Hohhot. The arsenic contamination
near Chifeng is of a very localized nature and is limited to spring water, which suggests a
mineralogical origin. The arsenic presence west of Hohhot is of a more diffuse nature and seems
associated with both the shallow and deep alluvial sediment layers. Typically, the shallow layers
(5-25 m deep) and their groundwater tend to have higher fluoride and arsenic levels than the
deeper layers, although this situation may be reverse for particular wells. The JICA study (1997-
1998) has compiled data on 16,000 predominantly shallow wells in the Bao Meng area and in
Tuoketuo. The highest concentration reported in Bao Meng is 3 mgAs/l, and some 1,600
arsenicosis patients have been identified. Nonetheless, it is recognized that these studies can only
be considered as preliminary. A study in three villages in the Hohhot Basin in the early nineties
revealed one third of the analyzed shallow and deep wells to contain arsenic levels above the
national standard; the prevalence of arsenicosis patients was 5.8%.
The areas with high fluoride and high arsenic levels overlap to a limited degree, but it is
clear that fluoride is more widespread.
The geological complexity of the sediment deposits in the region strongly suggests that
very localized geo-hydrological phenomena can occur, although it seems practical and reasonable
to describe the average groundwater contamination situation for planning purposes on a scale of a
county. The heterogeneity of the sediments is borne out, for instance, by the fact that in Tuoketuo
County quite a number of artesian wells can be found, whilst neighboring villages have much
deeper water tables of-20 or 30 m.
National drinking water standards define the maximally allowable level of fluoride in
rural water supplies at 1.5 mgF/I ("Grade III quality", or poorest allowable quality), which
exceeds the 1.0 mg/l level applicable to urban supplies. The maximum for arsenic is 0.050



- 34 -                         ANNEX B
mgAs/l, which corresponds to the maximum allowable concentration set by the World Health
Organization (the WHO recently set the maximum advisable concentration at 0.01Omg/I).
Physico-chemical technologies to remove fluoride from water are available and have
been demonstrated to be feasible. These technologies are often based on filters containing ion
exchange resins or inorganic adsorbants (such as calcium oxide, phosphate, and/or alumina).
Removal of arsenic, on the other hand, is less obvious, and few technologies are currently
available that are easy to operate and maintain. However, all these technologies tend to be rather
expensive and require a higher degree of technical and management capacity from the operator.
Although feasible for larger-scale urban water supply, there is no straightforward removal
technology option available for the small-scale rural operations under the projects' purview.
Presently, the Chemical Department, Hohhot University (Prof. Li Tu Xing), conducts
experiments for fluoride removal at field level with a pilot plant using "boiled stone"
(composition as yet not communicated to the mission) that is mined from a location 60 km from
Hohhot. If proven to be technically and institutionally feasible, this option may also be
sufficiently cheap. It is estimated that the depreciation and O&M cost would amount to 0.2-0.3
Y/m3, which is typically 10-20% of the total cost for a regular plant without the fluoride removal.
This cost could still be carried by most of the consumers. However, for arsenic, no removal
options are currently available that are both cost effective and technically feasible under rural
conditions. The National Project Office is not considering arsenic removal technologies, beside
the option of searching for a well location or a well depth that yields safe water.
References
Atlas of The ANatural Environmental and Endemic Diseases in Inner Mongolia Autonomous
Region. Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region Anti-epidemic Disease Leading Team Office,
Hohhot Anti-epidemic Disease Research Institute, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region
Publishing House, Hohhot, 1986. This Atlas provides reasonably comprehensive information on
fluoride and arsenic concentration in shallow groundwater.
Luo Zhen-dong, Zhang Yu-min, Ma Liang, Zhang Ge-you, He Xingzhou, Wilson R., Byrd D.,
Griffiths J., Lai Shenghan. He Lili, Grumski K., and Lamm S.H. Chronic Arsenicism and Skin
Cancer in Inner Mongolia - Consequences of Arsenic in Well Water. Proc. SEGH Meeting, San
Diego, CA, 1995.
The 1995 report by the Hohhot Sanitation and Anti-epidemic Disease Institute Preliminary, and
results of a JICA sponsored study (1997-1998) (information conveyed by Prof. Li Sumei,
Director. It should be noted, however, that the mission did not have the opportunity to directly
talk to members of the JICA study team).
Analysis results of well water compiled by the Tuoketuo County Anti-Epidemic Disease Station.
Notes of a discussion with Mr. Liu Jiayi, Deputy director, National Project Office, National
Patriotic Health Campaign, Beijing, May 15, 1998.



- 35 -                         ANNEX B
ANNEX 4
AUDITING IRREGULARITIES (1997 AUDIT)
Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region
Inner Mongolia PPO:
1. In September, 1997, PPO lent RMB 100,000 to non-project office; as of today, not repaid.
2. In December, 1997, PPO lent RMB 25,000 to Foreign Economy Division, Inner Mongolia
Financial Bureau; as of today, not repaid.
LinXi CPO
1. RMB 9,980.38 improper expenditure;
2. RMB 99,883.99 account receivable to be deferred;
Hohhot City Project Office:
1. "IOU" materials value reached RMB 104,600;
2. RMB 265,100 worth of materials and pumps were recorded in red;
Accumulated intercompany account reached 661,400; and other accumulated account receivable
reached 61,800. All of these were private borrowing.
Tuzuoqi CPO
1. Illegal expenditure reached RMB 104,100.
2. RMB 4,900 management fee was over withdrawn; RMB 3,100 commitment fee was over
withdrawn.
Tuoketuo CPO:
1. In the audit report, it mentioned that some problems were found but not sorted out.
Yunnan Province
Chuxiong City Project Office
1. RMB 419,728.28 worth of materials lost;
2. RMB 73,000 counterpart fund appropriated from beneficiaries could not be used for the
project. Among which RMB 5,000 was held by Fayi Office; RMB 23,000 of the fund was used to
construct office building by Ziwu Water Management Station.
Qiaojia CPO
1. RMB 73,189.28 field survey and exploration cost without formal invoice
Yunxian CPO
1. RMB 76,000 provision for debt service were diverted to repay the revolving fund to the
Financial Bureau.
Mile CPO
1. Some financial accounts could not be recorded properly.



- 36 -                          ANNEX B
Baoshan CPO
1. Due to poor management , water tariff collection in some of water plants could not cover
staff's salary. Such as, Xinguanghe Water Plant.
2. RMB 365,000 project fund were used for office building and dormitory construction.



- 37 -                               ANNEX B
ANNEX 5
ALTERNATIVE INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR OPERATIONAL
PLAN
WORLD BANK ADVICE TO BORROWERS
A. INSTITUTIONAL OPTIONS
1.     Two guiding principles
Examples   of   umbrella   service   organizations   successfully   and   sustainably
"intermediating" between their "client" water supply and sanitation (WSS) system
owners/operators and commercial service providers' seem to present at least two common
"guiding principles". They are linked, and not surprisingly relate directly to incentives for
efficient and effective value adding:
*   Competition: Regulatory and subsidy arrangements should not unreasonably obstruct
fair and open competition in the service market.
*   Commercial viabl: Positive cash flows are the best assurance of sustainability of
service provision.
2.      County Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Company
During the World Bank's RWSS II Implementation Completion Mission (ICM) in
November/December 1998, provincial and county project officers suggested the "County
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Company" (Coys) as one possible institutional option
for ensuring the sustainable delivery of WSS services after project implementation. The
model described by different officers had certain key commonalities:
*   Re-tooled County Project Offices (CPOs): The coys would essentially be the CPOs
but with different mandates delivering different services -- from project
implementation to operational support.
* With some ongoing National government funding support: Given the long and
"laudable" history of National government social welfare support in China, some
continuing level of on-going government subsidy for the coys was argued to be both
necessary and desirable. There was no definitive discussion on a notional schedule or
mechanism for phasing out this support.
1 The PROSANEAR urban environmental sanitation program in Brazil rests, inter alia, on the successful operational
phase intermediation between poor communities and market service providers. Although the market and the
services are somewhat different, the concept is directly relevant for RWSS II. The Water and Sewerage
Construction Company (WASECO) in Ho Chi Minh City in Vietnam provides an interesting exarnple of
operational phase technical and management support, including training of local operators ahead of the transfer
of assets. In the Philippines, the AusAID -assisted Central Visayas Water and Sanitation Project has been
followed up with a Federation of WSS service co-operatives established through the project, across the four
participating provinces (each about the size of a typical county in China).



- 38 -                       ANNEXB
*  Providing a range of operational support services: The mission and project officers
discussed the range of service which might be properly provided by these coys,
including training, bulk procurement of spare parts and system expansion materials
and equipment, operations and maintenance advice, technical repairs, and financial
management assistance including collection and bundling of IDA credit repayments.
*  Partially on a commercial basis: Project officers acknowledged that some of these
services should be provided on a commercial basis, and could therefore generate an
independent cash flow for the coys, especially the supply of spares, goods and
materials.
3.    Compliance with the "guiding principles"
The notion of an umbrella organization serving project-initiated small WSS system
operators is conceptually sound; and the model explained by the Bank's interlocutors
may be reasonable for the project counties at this time. However, the model suffers two
potentially fatal deficiencies:
*  Net negative cash flows: The model assumes that government subsidies will be
necessary, ad infinitum. In this sense, the proponents see the coy as a CPO, but who's
function is to deliver government sponsored operational support instead of
implementation support. Even if government were to accept this arrangement
initially, its policy on subsidies would inevitably change, the public benefactor will
disappear, and with it the bankrupt coy. Some level of government subsidy during a
defined transition phase may or may not be necessary and wise. But whatever the
arrangement, no services should be offered to the WSS system operators on less
than a commercial basis unless for commercial strategic reasons (e.g. a deliberate
loss-leader position to establish a sub-market). A positive cash flow is any
organization's best guarantee of survival.
* Market distorting subsidies: Any govermnent subsidy for the coy will distort the
market for providing those services, potentially disqualifying more suitable
contenders, and downgrading the quality of service. It may be, for instance, that pre-
existing county town water supply companies would be more competitive in
providing some or all of the services envisaged. It is conceptually incorrect to assume
that the CPOs are best placed to provide these services. No subsidy arrangement
should disqualify potential commercial competitors. Open and fair competition
ultimately maximizes customer satisfaction and continued demand for those services.
4.    Some variations and lessons learned
Umbrella company owned by the WSS system operators: The coy. may be owned by the
system operators who have subscribed for stock in the coy. This underpins the
relationship between the CVWSP WSS cooperatives and their Service Federation in the
Philippines (see footnote 1). The Federation's shareholders are the WSS cooperatives
who have subscribed Pesos 150,000 to establish the Federation's capital base. There is no
government support or interference, and the WSS cooperatives have total discretion over
their dealings with the Federation. Each has an absolute interest in the well-being of the



- 39 -                        ANNEXB
other. But it is too soon to draw conclusive lessons from this experience; and it suffers the
same anti-competition risks suffered by any vertically integrated conglomerate.
Integration of project implementation and project operation; and project replication: In
the successful WASECO example in Vietnam, the company packages each project as a
small-scale build-operate-transfer scheme. After signing a service contract with a
participating commune, WASECO borrows funds from local banks to finance
construction. The coy. then operates the system and charges an agreed tariff, for five to
seven years. Tariffs are always sufficient for full cost recovery. Households pay the full
cost of connections from the street to the house. Following construction, the coy.
provides training for local system operators to ensure operation sustainability after
transfer of assets.
There are three important lessons for RWSS II:
*  The importance of full cost recovery and the advantages of engendering fiscal and
commercial discipline from the start of the operations phase;
*  As an example of how to replicate the project to other villages, and the potential for
expanding the coy's immediate scope of services and its eventual service market; and
* An example of a government-owned company -- WASECO -- locking in a viable
long-term future.






MAP SECTION






IbRD 23276
52t                                              94°                                                 106°                                               r8      
C H I N A                                                                            
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT                                                                      4
NORTHERN PROVINCES
Project Counties                                                                  !
-4B'                                                                                                0    Prefecture Seats
0V  Proince Capitols
* Noti.orrl Capital 
10 Hoinor
._!   t                             C~~~~~~~~~ Prfcure Boundaries                           *          -    Ct _               
Proince Boundaries                                                     /Au;
4                                             w.- s _  Internitonol 8-undorins                                     /                               ELONG-
/+_\ (_AIO  B.it                                                                                                                                            J/A**' +v?/ NG
_   100  200  300  400  500                                                        ..%            * hJAN
.0.111 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~fJILIN
0ingh)   g <                         ¢                                                                                               <*t                 _      9\   <3Ch..gchun
oyi  s   i                                                                                                                            44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
0 W.ji.qtugn  lCha>i                              M    O   N    G   O    L  I A                                Abageor Qi                   T. lia
\,,°o  ) H.mLnCi     Noiman
0~~~~~~~~~~0
-4TS                  0 A. Kq,) O   L-t -   ol                                                                                                                                                      A    NN
K,, 
Akt   sSh.l.                   X  I N/J  I A   N    G                                                                   -H                                                                                         4 t -+?    chtJnn  
0   Jio~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
+  <  <      r       w      XngoS              -ot    {    BE2Z3tzHI \ 40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ji H,.N  H
_3e;  (  g        OHotan                                                                          >         9s.y    f- Al.o Zuoqi                                           H      HBEI a I     H
hu- <  9  ~t;  v    5!r  .7%t,Son  /  {    ToSyucn  SS;czhucngog u
o; the i.aul ,nanu. ut uRn' Xnninuin' cc cnn' ,nduenn. onacuunue of                                          SHANXI
, ~~~~ ~~ ~~ ~~' -'Al fA OF R-MB-  a i     T ~~~~~~~~~~~Q    I N    G    H   A   I                                              Xi.t & nS                          A       D       N
, ,A              iX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ f~~~~~~~~~ ;                                                                            v  (         S_                      A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_,
OItNAN    roii,n   cccl,                                                                                                                                     ANHvmU_ 14  I
r^revious er=lecf  yUNN8N  (TA IWAN   Thi, mop -10 h., nr-m,.p.r,d brTW vW,lcld ;8-k'-ff.. lu't fI 'r Nh sdrld   |ES  I C   H   U   A   N                                   tOn H-gA
rHAl;Ari <! ;  ! _#NAN  HlWlNE  q s_h                                                                           106oie                           />18                               NOVEMBER 199






9q'  '(,  102'                                    ICco                                                  _  / t  _   "             \          \\<,                       __  _  _  _    _   _   IBRL  23348~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BR   2 34
,,                               ~~~~RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT   e                                                    u                          its;<60t4   -
SOUTHERN PROVINCES                                                                                           l<           .\                           .,
VB'   t   0  +Jv   C   @)/; 'zl i,jl,b't                     ,f.           t LOhETERS                                                \ Fenghuang  t        Q  ;~        5 2 200  300    hanCh-a,h    
28'                                                                                                                                                                JlZ dl        @ g, __  h     Ld.Xg.°                       y                 ,            ,
i  ii - 1--*     +          >                               r            hotog        Hh,-X                                                                          Chua -i       ,ihoog    egSu   
>   /                       ,                liool oS-    >                                                                        , >     o n y  a   g f    S ocyo 9Ol               HenOy 5Zh-C         ol-g
1e )  A  >Ss- ?       1  tSW f ,' 1 1 (} U                              i-J    >/!N                                 i         0 hBESEhOU  arSH~~~H-9d..
0   ;]  ;°  q  na  0  >  >  ( e L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C OH.t ] g > ( r~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                                   h. ~
_ . _ ' r   r  fi>  Z  ,<  ^  X  ;  S'  s h vs ¢ r 'A < ;a. o Li zhou tS \ 3 ntr T d o X 5 d  h '0z dCd tJ
\   lin c u n 9  O   ' \   s   f   " /   $ 4  i s > s p   t?   f a L   t               f g f X t   3   {/4L   f$>g   f,r   j L   fi   ;      Y             on   h   l e t  s h ts  of    rey  te s* n y  or  .ly  redo m en ont  or  soCPh -  eh  o
/    z    \    y    Z    dr   qe   <,   >   oW<  Lr  iban  > e . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h....
)   \               4                OGel~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Qip  OWnsa                                                                                                                 J   ,.h. a - > j2¢>    t'r' :' 
>^<8  i \                                                  r                      Fusu  --,,--d ' 0vJ r->   Cx                                                                   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gy-
W-   znh-      n                                               IT N        M~,                            ~             rg f                                                               IAG9,           NhI                          d
MYNA  -h%t  -A,  ,/cu(:>/=Sf
2   "  _  W  J   \                                         _.                 a v         _I      .  )       L n 3~~~~~ 5   ~ ~ ~   L 0 t  Prewious   Prolecl   YUNNAN\_,vGUANGX>UANGD9'SG   e  Vf N~~k-:y  
L~,/ D E   M R   E                                                         '0, H-hID6 ,rgjl.Pmeookge  !pS



