c,e.123'31p-Ch'f'-
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                               Report No. 10028-CHA
Report No. 10028-CHA Type: (SAR)
CHENG, I  / X84046 / A7023/ AS3EH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SAN;TATION PROJECT
JANUARY 9, 1992
Environment, Human Resources and
Urban Development Operations Division
Country Department II (China and Mongolia)
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
(as of May 1991)
Renminbi (RMB) Yuan (Y) 1.00 - 100 fen
US$1.00   Y 5.31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
meter (m)                                 3.28 feet
kilometer (km)                      -    0.62 miles
liter (1)                           =    0.264 US gallons
lpcd                                -    liters per capita per day
cubic meter (m3) or ton of water          284 US gallons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPO       -    County Project Office
CRWSTC    -    China Rural Water Supply Technical Center
EEC       -    European Economic Community
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
LCB       -    Local Competitive Bidding
MOF       -    Ministry of Finance
MOPH      -    Ministry of Public Health
NPHCC     -    National Patriotic Health Campaign Committee
NPHCCO    -    Executive Office of the NPHCC
NPO            Nqational Project Office
PPO       -    Provincial Project Office
R=WS      -    Rural Water Supply Project (Cr. 1578)
RWSS      -    Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Programme
UNDP/WB   -    The UNDP/World Bank Water and Sanitation Program
WHO       -    World Health Organization
Gansu     -    Gansu Province
Guangxi   -    Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region
Hunan     -    Hunan Province
Neimong   -    Nei Mongol (Inner Mongolia) Autonomous Region
Xinjiang  -    Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
Yunnan    -    Yunnan Province
GLOSSARY
Province  -    China is divided into 23 provinces, five autonomous regions
and three municipalities. In this report, the term
"province" refers to provinces and autonomous regions.
County    -    Chinese provinces/autonomous regions are subdivided into
counties, cities, banners and branehes. In this report,
the term "county" refers to all o  .he afore-mentioned.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHIA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries: The six project provinces of Guangxi, Yunnan, Hunan, Gansu,
Nei Mongol and Xinjiang
Amount:        SDR 78.9 million (US$110.0 million equivalent)
Term£:         Standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity
Onlendina      From the Government of China to project provinces: 20
Terms:         years including five years grace at fixed annual interest
of two percent for the foreign exchange portion and four
percent fo. the local currency portion. From the provinces
to sub-project entities through project counties: maximum
20 years including up to five years grace at fixed interest
of four percent per annum. Foreign.exchange risk would be
borne by the provinces.
Project        The project would serve about nine million rural
Description:   inhabitants of 75 poor and water-scarce counties in six
under-developed inland provinces. It would comprise five
components: (a) construction of water supply facilities;
(b) construction of sanitation facilities in selected
demonstration and pilot villages; (c) provision of health
and hygiene education; (d) technical assistance and
training at national and local levels; and (e) construction
and equipping of project management offices. Through
project preparation and implementation, immediate
objectives are to: (a) develop long-term strategies to
prioritize investments at the county level; (b) develop
affordable and sustainable programs to maximize project
impact; (c) establish and maintain properly staffed
institutions and provide technical assistance and training
to support adoption, implementation and operation of such
programs; (d) increase coverage in water supply, sanitation
and health/hygiene education; and (e) enhance replicability
of project activities through development of models,
standards and manuals as well as dissemination of
experience and lessons learned.
Proi2ct        The project is expected to alleviate human suffering
Aenefits:    associated with poverty and ill health and improve quality
of life. It would reduce morbidity which is costly in
terms of productive time loss and medical expenses.
Through improved access to basic levels of water supply,
time and energy saved on water collection would be spent on
child and elderly care and productive activities. By
bringing about improved sanitation services and hygienic
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



practices, the project is also likely to have substantial
health benefits in disease reduction. In terms of
institutional development, the project would enhance
community participation and bring together sectoral
organizations to work in a coordinated fashion. Capacity
building in technical and managerial skills and development
of workable long-term investment plans would also ensure
successful project execution and sustained sector growth.
Project        Shortage of qualified personnel in project management and
Risks:         implementation might hamper progress.  The country's policy
on self-reliance and cost recovery concerns might block
poor communities from participating and limit investment in
the sanitation and health education components. The
project addresses these risks by: (a) strengthening
management and provision of technical assistance and
training for all implementing agencies; (b) production and
dissemination of "user-friendly" manuals; (c) establishment
of review criteria for sub-project selection; (d) promoting
community participation, including women, and commitment
from the start and through every stage of sub-project
planning and implementation; and (e) development of long-
term strateglfs and sustainable investment programs for
sanitation and health/hygiene education.
Estimated Costs:
Local    Foreign    Total
----- (US$ Million) -----
Water Supply Construction                  60.1      60.8      120.9
Sanitation Construction                     5.9         --       5.9
Health and Hygiene Education                4.3       1.8        6.1
Technical Assistance and Training           5.1       1.6        6.6
Institution Establishment & Proj. Mgmt.    4.9        1.2        6.1
Total Base Cost                       80.2      65.4     145.7
Physical Contingencies                      8.0       6.5       14.6
Price Contingencies                        15.9      13.0       28.9
Total Project Cost'                  104.2      84.9     189.1
Project-financed goods are exempted from import duties and taxes.



Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
----- (US$ Million) -----
Provinces & Prefectures                      23.0         --       23.0
Counties & Townships                         18.9         --       18.9
Communities and Individuals                  37.2         --       37.2
IDA                                          25.1       84.9      110.0
Total                                  104.2       84.9      189.1
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY            1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
-------------------- (US$ Million) -----------------
Annual             7.0    19.0    25.0    25.0    18.0    13.0         3.0
Cumulative         7.0    26.0    51.0    76.0    94.0   107.0   110.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Note: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.



CHIN
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR  ......................  1
A.  Sector Background .          .................................................   1
B.  Sector Organization .            ...............................................   2
C. Demand for Services .               ...............................................   3
D.  Planning and Investment Programs  ..................................   3
E.  Financing  .........................................................   4
F.  Issues and Constraints  ...........                .................................   5
G.  The Bank Group's Role and Sector Lending Experience  ....                       ...........   7
H.  Lessons Learned  .         ..................................................   7
II.   THE PROJECT . ....................................................... 10
A.  Origin  ...........................................................  10
B. Objectives  ........................................................ 10
C. Description  ....................................................... 11
D.  Cost Estimates  . ................................................... 12
E. Financing Plan ..................................................... 14
F. Onlending Arrangements  ...........                 ................................. 14
G. Rationale for IDA Involvement  ..................................... 15
H.  International Donor Agency Support  ................................ 15
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .... ....   .................................. 16
A. Organization for Implementation  ...................................  16
B.  Status of Project Preparation  ....................................  17
C.  Implementation Strategy and Program  ...........                   .................... 18
D.  Implementation Plan and Schedule  .               ................................. 20
E.  Sub-Project Preparation  ........................................... 21
F. Procurement  ........................................... 22
G. Management and Community Participation  ........                     .................... 25
H. Operations and Maintenance  ........................................ 25
I. Disbursement  ..........................................  26
J. Monitoring,  Supervision and Evaluation  ........                    .................... 27
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to China in
May-June 1991. Mission members comprised Ivy H. Cheng (Task Manager,
Financial Analyst), Erdogan Pancaroglu (Sanitary Engineer), Andrew Macoun
(Sanitation Engineer), Heroert Boehm (Health Education Specialist), Leon
MilLer (Economist) and Florencio Padernal (Consultant, Sanitary Engineer).
Peer Reviewers were John Huang (Sanitary Engineer, EA2EH), Arthur Bruestle
(Environmental Engineer, ASTEN), Ayse Kudat (Sociologist, INUWS), Eugene
Boostrom (Public Health Specialist, AFTPN) and Gerhard Tschannerl
(Municipal Engineer, AF2IN). Division Chief is Zafer Ecevit and Department
Director is Shahid Javed Burki.



Table of Contents (contir_ued)                                                         Page No.
IV.  ELNLACE .................................... ...................... 28
A.  Past Performance  ..........................  28
B. Counterpart Financing Arrangements .... I ........................... 28
C. Cost Recovery Plans and Water Charges  ..........................   29
D. Provincial and County Finances .................................... 29
E. Beneficiary Affordability and Willingneas to Pay  .................. 30
F. Accounts and Audit .31
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .32
A. Poverty Focus and Impact .32
B. Health Impact .33
C. Environmental Impact .33
D. Impact on Women .34
E. Institutional Development .35
F.    Risks  .............    .......   .......   .......    .......   ....... ....... 35
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .........                 .................... 35
A. Agreements Reached ................................ .. ............ 35
B. Understandings Reached  .........................  36
C. Condition of Credit Disbursement  .................................. 37
D. Recommendation  ...................................  37
ANNEXES
1.    The Project Areas  ................................................. 38
2.    List of Project Provinces,  Prefectures and Counties  ....                    ........... 43
3.    The Water Supply Component  ............           ............................ 44
4.    The Sanitation Component  ..........                   .....................  50
5.    The Hygiene and Health Education Component  ..................                  I ..... 53
6.    The Technical Assistance and Training Component  ................... 58
7.    The Institution Establishment and Project Management Component   .... 62
8.    Outline Terms of Reference for a Study of Practices and Attitudes
to Nightsoil Use in Agriculture  ................................... 64
9.    Summary Cost Estimates by Project Component and by Year  ....                    ....... 67
10.   Financing Plans and Credit Repayment Responsibilities  ....                     ......... 70
11.   UNDP/World Bank CPR/91/141 Project Description .................... 71
12.   Organization and Functions of Project Offices  ..................... 74
13.   Staffing of Project Offices  ....................................... 77
14.   Project Implementation Schedule  ..........            ......................... 78
15.   Estimated Credit Disbursement Schedule  ........                  .................... 80
16.   Monitoring Indicators  ............................................  81
17.   Supervision Plan ............................................83
18.   Provincial and County Finances  .             ................................... 85
19.   Typical Costs and Affordability  ..............               ..................... 86
20.   Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File  ....                     ......... 88
MAPS: IBRD No. 23348 Southern Provinces (Guangxi, Yunnan and Hunan)
IBRD No. 23276 Northern Provinces (Gansu, Nei Mongol and Xinjiang)



CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION1 PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
A. Sector2 Background
1.1       The lives of China's 900 million rural inhabitants have improved
markedly since 1949. There b-ve been major gains in health, housing,
agricultural productivity and economic conditions. Health improvements
have resulted largely from bettor primary health care including health
education campaigns, improved nutrition, better maternal and child care,
immunization, and improvements in drinking water and sanitation facilities.
Nevertheless, at the end of 1990, about 70 percent of the total rural
population was still inadequately served with water supply.  More than 90
percent did not have means of proper sanitation, and unhygienic practices
in the use of nightsoil in agricujture are widespread. Health and hygiene
education is also limited. As a result, rural areas are still plagued by
dysentery, hepatitis, typhoid and cholera epidemics, and above all, common
diarrheal diseases and helminth infections, all of which are clearly linked
to poor water supply, sanitation and health/hygiene education. The
conditions tend to be worse in the poorer and more remote areas of the
country where development of the sector has lagged behind.
1.2       Water SuRply.  At the end of the International Drinking Water
Supply and Sanitation Decade (1981-1990), statistics indicate that about
two-thirds of the rural population still relied on traditional sources such
as open-dug wells, shallow wells with handpumps, rainwater collectors,
water fetched from rivers, undeveloped springs or ponds of doubtful
quality. Approximately one third had critical water supply needs: 45
million consumed water with excessive fluoride; 63 million drank saline or
alkaline water; 150 million used untreated surface water contaminated by
domestic, industrial or agro-chemical wastes; and 42 million lived in
water-scarce areas.
1.3       Of the total rural population that is adequately served, over 80
percent get their water through piped systems. Although construction costs
per person for these systems are generally higher than point source
facilities, they are usually preferred when financing could be arranged
because the technology is regarded as reliable, convenient and easy to
operate and maintain, as well as being superior in quality. Some regional
1    In the context of the proposed project, sanitation refers to physical
facilities as well as the promotion of hygiene and prevention of disease by
achieving and maintaining sanitary conditions.
2    In the context of this report, sector covers the rural water supply,
rural sanitation and rural health and hygiene education sub-sectors.



-2-
(multi-village and even cross-county) schemes have also been adc, ted to
achieve efficiency and economy of scale.
1.4       Sanitation.  Detailed statistics on sanitation coverage are not
available but it is known that up to 90 percent of the rural nopulation has
access to simple household latrines. However, these facilities could be
described as rudimentary at best: they are temporary storage of wastes and
pr ovide easy access to flies and other insect vectors of disease
transmission. The availability of public and school latrines is low, and
their standard is also poor. Wastes are collected and transported to the
fields for use in agriculture, often without further treatment. These
practices are traditional and will undoubtedly continue. The main
objectives of sanitation improvements are therefore to improve the standard
of latrines and to make re-use practices more hygienic.
1.5       Poor disposal of human wastes is the greatest but by no means
the only sanitation deficiency. Wastewater is discharged at will, drainage
is poor, and most rural households keep pigs and other animals in their
compounds, often without proper enclosures. Animal manure is deposited
indiscriminately, further exacerbating unsanitary conditions.
1.6       Health Education.  Health education in rural areas is very
limited, consisting only of the provision of textbooks to most of the
primary students, the distribution of some hygiene information to herdsmen,
the production of a few television and radio programs, and in rare cases
the publication of bulletins and newspapers. Little effort has been made
to develop and disseminate culturally appropriate materials for minorities
and to use non-conventional instruments for the illiteraues.
1.7       Activities in the provincial and the recently established
district health education institutions are often carried out on an ad hoc
basis by personnel who are in the majority doctors, not health education
specialists. To overcome this problem, some provinces have initiated
specific programs for health educators at medical universities, but most
provinces still lack such specialized training.
B. Sector Oraanization
1.8       The national coordination responsibility for improvement of
rural water supply, sanitation and health education lies with the National
Patriotic Health Campaign Committee (NPHCC). The Committee is composed of
senior officials from over forty ministries and central agencies active in
planning, finance, health, water resources, environment, construction and
material allocation matters. The agency's objectives are health promotion
and disease prevention through organized mass participation. Day-to-day
work of the Committee is delegated to the Executive Office of the National
Patriotic Health Campaign Committee (NPHCCO). Corresponding committees and
offices exist at the provincial, prefecture and county levels. As at the
center, the local committees provide inter-sectoral coordination while the
local offices, usually under the local health bureaus of the Ministry of



-3-
Public Health (MOPH) are responsible for implementing NPHCC's policies and
priorities.
1.9       Planning, development and operation of the sector are generally
carried out at the local levels (county level and below) where expertise
and resources are both limited. Physical construction is mostly carried
out by local construction units and communities.
C. Demand for Services
1.10      At the highest level, the Government recognizes the need to
improve the water supply, sanitation and health/hygiene education sub-
sectors in parallel in order to reduce incidence of water-borne and
sanitation related diseases. This theme was reiterated during the recent
Second Rural Water Supply Conference chaired by the Minister of Public
Health in December 1991. However, this integrated approach is not yet well
understood and accepted by most local government officials, civic leaders
and rural families. They generally still regard improvements in water
supply as by far the most important among the sub-sectors. This can be
demonstrated by reviewing development records and the willingness of local
government and users to contribute to water supply construction.
1.11      Demand for sanitation services is complex.  On the one hand,
utilization of human wastes as fertilizer/soil conditioner is common place
and is a factor in generating agricultural income. Any improvement in the
convenience of storing and treating wastes, or in the quality of wastes
produced, is likely to result in strong demand3. However, recognition of
the health consequences of poor sanitation is not widespread and it must be
Anticipated that demand for improvements on grounds of health improvement
will ta'.:e time to develop and will need to be stimulated.
D. Planning and Investment Programs
1.12      So far, service coverage targets as stated in the Uovernment's
Five-Year Plan and NPHCC's Ten-Year Programs have dominated sectoral
planning. Little attention has yet been given to development approaches,
in particular community participation in the planning and implementation
process, and requirements in financing, operation and maintenance.
1.13      Water Sunnlv.  A national rural water supply program with a
target to provide safe drinking water to all by 1990 was initiated in 1981
in respons3 to the International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation
Decade Program. In 1985, the Government announced its revised target to
adequately serve 80 percent of its rural population by the end of the
decade. At the end of 1990, about 75 percent of the population's water
3    This was the experience with past government programs to promote
biogas generators - several million units were built and thLy have remained
popular, despite high failure rates due to poor quality materials and
construction.



supply had been improved to various extent and about 31 percent were served
by pipcd systems. Still, of the total, only about 30 percent was
considered adequately served (para. 1.1). Further targets have been
included in later plans: by 1995 - 85 percent with improved supply
including 30 to 40 percent served by piped systems and 35 to 50 percent
meeting water quality standards; by 2000 - 90 percent with improved supply
including 35 to 50 percent served by piped systems and 45 to 60 percent
meeting water quality standards. Recently quality standards for rural
water supply have been developed; however, clear definition has yot to be
given to the term "improved supply". Actual expenditures for the five year
periods 1981-1985 and 1986-1990 were RMB Y3.25 billioh' and Y9.43 billion
respectively.
1.14      Sanitation.  No comprehensive rural sanitation improvement
programs have yet been implemented in China. In the past, biogas plants
have been actively promoted for the co-digestion of animal and human wastes
although the programs were driven mainly by energy and agricultural
considerations. More recently the NPHCC launched a pilot sanitation
projent in ten counties and two minority regions to test latrine types and
nightsoil treatnment.
1.15      Targets set for sanitation service coverage are: latrines for
20-50 percent of the rural population by 1995 rising to 35-80 percent by
the year 2000, depending on local economic conditions. In addition, active
programs are planned to promote the treatment of nightsoil to render iz:
harmless. Sanitation programs will target model villages and townships to
reach an advanced standard of sanitation so that these communities can
serve as examples to others in their vicinity. Based on local economic
conditions, coverage targets are: 10-15 percent of villages, 3-6 percent of
townships by 1995; 20-40 percent of villages, 10-25 percent of townships by
the year 2000.
1.16      Hoalth and H;giene Education.  Key targets set for 1995 include:
health education institutes in 50-70 percent of counties, 30 health
education workers per million population, 30-40 percent of rural schools
offering hygiene education courses and 30-50 percent of rural population
practicing proper hygiene habits. Corresponding targets for the year 2000
are 75-80 percent of counties, 50 workers per million, 80 percent of
schools and over 50 percent practicing proper hygiene habits.
E. Financing
1.17      The virtual absence of direct central government financing for
the rural water supply and sanitation sector distinguishes China from most
other developing countries. Capital costs for water supply are partially
provided by local governments at the provincial, prefecture and county
levels but to a large extent they are met by contributions from
communities, rural enterprises and household users. During the 1980s,
total investment in the sub-sector amounted to RMB Y12.3 billion. Of the
total, about ten percent was contributed by provinces and counties, 40
percent by township/village governments and rural enterprises and the



.  -
remaining 50 percent by user communities and households. Consumers almost
always pay the recurrent costs. Water charges normally cover the cost of
operations and maintenance, and sometimes deprecietion or debt service.
Capital costs for public and communal sanitation facilities are wet by the
local governments. Household latrines are privately built with little or
no subsidy from the government. Expenditures on health and hygiene
education are covered by provincial and local budgets. They are well below
targets recommended  ' the World Health Organization (WHO). In many
districts, only not.  -t l amounts are made available in their budgets and
funds are often proviuAi only for personnel expenditures.
F.   sesJan  Censtrainta
1.18      Despite the progress made, a number of issues and constraints
still impede the development and performance of the sector.
1.19      Overall Sector Planning.  The fundamental problem of the sector
is the lack of coordinated planning and investment programs at the national
as well as local levels. The service coverage targets reflected in
national plans (paras. 1.12-1.16) in most cases have never been translated
into concrete and realistic investment strategies and plans at the
provincial, c.>nty and township levels, which are the prime movers for
development, both in terms of initiative and financing.
1.20      Funding and Financing Arrangements.  The availability of funds
is often cited as the main reason for the sector to fall short of attaining
its targets. As a result of the Government's policy of self-reliance,
local governments, communities and households are expected to pay a
substantial part and sometimes full cost of service. This policy, a'though
considered to be appropriate in more affluent regions, often inhibi
reasonable development in poor segments of the society. The exact
situation is still unclear as little is known about actual demand and the
capability of local governments to adopt a demand-driver, approach and to
fund long-term development programs. No sound study has been conducted on
water pricing, willingness to pay and appropriate methods for billing and
collection in the rural setting. Under sh,e present compensation system,
rural doctors are limiting their services primarily to the provision of
curative care. Health education is no longer provided routinely. Without
seed capital, appropriate financing mechanism and practices to enhance
replicability it is difficult for the sector to advance rapidly.
1.21      Institutional Framework.  Under the current institutional
arrangement at the national level, communication and collaboration between
the National Project Office (NPO) and other sub-sectoral units in NPHCCO,
MOPH, design institutes, health education institutes, training
organizations etc. would be crucial to the long-term development of the
sector. At the local level, the self-reliance policy has placed the main
responsibility of development on the township/village governments. These
governmental organizations and communities, however, often lack the
administrative, financial and technical skills and experience to design,
plan, construct, operate and maintain physical facilities and to design and



- 6-
carry out effective health education campaigns. Most school teachers are
poorly trained in hygiene and health subjects and therefore do not have the
knowledge to effectively shape or change tne hygiene habits of children.
The problem is particularly acute in the less developed inland areas where
the level of illiteracy is high and social and cultural differences of
ethnic minorities require diverse approaches.
1.22      Technical Considerations.  Despite some progress in certain
regions, China's exposure to and experience with recently developed and
developing low-cost water supply and sanitation technologies is still
limited due to its unfamiliarity with practices in other countries,
insufficient communication among provinces and restricted labor mobility.
As a result, designs and standards are sometimes inappropriate and
inefficient. The lack of low-cost alternatives in some areas also delayed
development because of affordability concerns. A design manual for non-
piped technologies is only currently under preparation to supplement the
existing design manual for piped systems developed under the first Rural
Water Supply Project (RWS) (para. 1.29).
1.23       In some regions where surface water is inadequate to meet
demand, especially during the winter, and natural ground water quality is
poor, specialized treatments of ground water such as defluoridatiorL may be
required. The effectiveness of existing technologies are often
controversial and their use expensive. Development of rural industries in
the past decade has caused widespreRd contamination of water sources.
Pollution control measures and selection of appropriate technologies for
treatment and removal of pollutants need to be considered and improved.
1.24      Except for well managed piped schemes, water quality testing,
mon.toring and control in the rural areas are often neglected. The
situation is more serious where small schemes and point-source supplies are
concerned. Urban water quality standards, the only set of drinking water
standards approved by the government, are rarely met or enforced in rural
areas for various technical, personnel and cost reasons. Only very
recently (1991) have actions been taken to establish a set of more
realistic drinking water starndards for rural water supply.
1.25      Development of standards and guidelines for sanitation has only
started recently. Based on the experience of its pilot programs (para.
1.14), NPHCCO has compiled "Selected Drawings on Rural Latrines and
Sanitary Nightsoil Treatment Facilities in China's Rural Areas" in 1991.
MOPH in 1987 issued National Standard for the Non-hazardous Treatment of
Nightsoil for application to collected nightsoil treated by
high-temperature composting or anaerobic digestion. A comprehensive set of
standards for household latrines is still under preparation.
1.26      Human waste collection and use in agriculture is a long-standing
practice which occurs on a very large scale, although less so in the
sparsely populated and drier western provinces. Latrines are widespread
but rudimentary or of unsatisfactory design, and the practices of waste



collection and use are far from hygienic. Improvements in these practices
are needed to ensure the safe use and disposal of human wastes.
1.27      Program ApRroach.  Achievement of sectoral targets set by the
Government would require sustained efforts over extended periods of time.
Particularly for the sanitation and health/hygiene education sub-sectors, a
program approach which will allow efforts to continue and expand in future
to achieve significant and sustained progress is required. A project
approach with limited time and financing is unlikely to build long-term
capacity.
G. The Bank Group's Role and Sector Lending Experience
1.28      The Bank Group's role in the sector is to assist the Government
in addressing the sectoral issues and constraints through the provision of
financial and technical support. The Bank's experience has enabled it to
assist the Government to develop a well-conceived institutional framework
and strategies for the sector. In the future, the Bank Group's assistance
will focus on the provision of services to the rural population of poor and
remote areas. It will continue to bring about improvements in
institutional capacities, particularly in overall planning, adoption of
alternative appropriate low-cost technologies, and integration of physical
construction of water supply and sanitation facilities with related health
and hygiene education programs.
1.29      The Bank Group's involvement in the sector started in 1982.  The
first Rural Water Supply Project (RWS) (Cr. 1578-¢HA for US$80 million
equivalent or SDR 82.1 million), approved in 1985, was designed to provide
safe drinking water to some six million rural inhabitants in the four
relatively well-off provinces of Zhejiang, Sichuan, Liaoning and Shaanxi
and the Municipality of Beijing. Technical assistance, institutional
development and tralning were included as components of the project. The
physical implementation is now complete. Design, construction and
operation and maintenance manuals primarily for piped water supply systems
have been published and disseminated in an effort to standardize and
provide guidance to the development of the sub-sector. Experience with and
benefits of competitive procurement have also been gained. Where sub-
projects are operational, statistics on improved livelihood have been very
encouraging. The credit was closed at the end of 1991.
H. Lessons Learned
1.30      Although a Project Completion Report (PCR) has not yet been
prepared for RWS, a number of lessons have been drawn from the experience.
The main lessons learned have been integrated into the design of the
proposed Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (RWSS).
1.31      Integration of Rur.pl Water SuRply. Sanitation and Health/Hygiene
EdMation. It was observed that although water supply improvements were
the most in demand, health improvements would only be maximized if
complementary improvements in sanitation services and health/hygiene



- 8 -
education were provided as integral parts of the undertaking. The key
difference between RWS and the proposed project is the inclusion of the two
complementary components.
1.32      Inatitutional Development.  At the project offices, management
systems such as planning, monitoring and data management were set-up and
applied. Institutional processes (such as meetings with prospective
beneficiaries on construction cost sharing and water charges) were
developed. Training and capacity building activities were instituted and
had served project personnel and communities. ICB procedures for
procurement of materials and LCB procedures for civil works resulted in
very competitive prices. These initiatives were all well received and
considered very positive aspects of RWS.
1.33      Investment  Plannig.  The project completion date of RWS has
been extended for one year in order to accommodate the re-design, approval
and construction of larger systems to replace small isolated village
systems originally planned. This was done to attain economy of scale and
to include villages which were reluctant to participate at the beginning
but changed their position after witnessing apparent economic growth and
health improvements of neighboring project villages.   Planning of RWSS is
being done in a more programmatic fashion, i.e. it will be refined and
reviewed on an annual basis to be more responsive to shifting demands.
1.34      Coordination of Project Activities.  It was observed that
inappropriate packaging of ICB contracts often resulted in long delays in
construction of sub-projects under RWS. Under RWSS, measures would be
taken to ensure early preparation of ICB procurement documents and to
better coordinate procurement so that implementation requirements and
schedules are met. tbere justified, LCB and local shopping would be
allowed for procurement of urgently needed materials in small quantities.
1.35      Criteria for Stub- roiect Design Review.  A substantial
percentage of sub-projects under RWS were constructed without prior
approval of designs by the national project office as agreed. The long
waiting period for approval due to considerable backlog was cited as the
main reason for non-compliance. Thresholds for review of sub-project
designs though originally set at reasonable levels became unrealistic due
to much higher than expected domestic inflation over the project
implementation period. To avoid overloading the provincial and national
project offices in the future, thresholds for review would be adjusted for
inflation periodically.
1.36      Sub-5ro2Je  _Design.  It was noted that many completed sub-
projects, though generally well constructed and operated, were over-
designed. In the selection of water treatment technology, it was also
observed that cost effectiveness would be improved with more thorough
analysis of alternatives. These matters would be more closely monitored
during implementation and supervision of RWSS.



-9-
1.37      Provincial Revolving Funds.  Under RWS, it was expected that the
difference in repayment terms of provincial loans to villages (ten years
with two years grace) and Government loans to provinces (25 years with ten
years grace) would allow substantial funds to build up in provincial
revolving funds. As a result of wide-spread delays in project
implementation and slower than expected capital cost recovery, the
originally envisaged benefits will not be fully realized. Taking i,.to
account the harder on-lending terms from the Government to the provinces
(from zero interest and 25 years maturity with ten years grace to four
percent interest and 20 years maturity with five years grace), and
financial capability of the targeted cotmunities, it was decided that
revolving funds would not be established for the proposed project4.
1.38      Maintenance of Project Offices.  Concerns were expressed,
particularly by county project officials, that project offices would be
dissolved at the completion of RWS as most of them were set-up at the start
of the project to be the "RWS project offices". In order to sustain the
momentum already created In project areas, provide continual support to
existing and future local water companies, and enhance replication
capacities, project offices should be maintained on a long-term basis.
1.39      Community Management.  Community participation is seen as a
necessary element if sustainability is to be achieved. Although cost
recovery, community ownership, responsibility for operation and maintenance
have been emphasized and achieved to a large extent under RWS, local
involvement in the planning stages and community empowerment including
women have been deficient. RWSS would continue to address this issue
through formulation and review of strategies and provision of technical
assistance and training.
1.40      Water Quality Standards and Control.  Under RWS, though water
quality is not perceived as a problem, water supplied often times is not
expected to and does not fully meet the rather stringent standards (para.
1.24). The lack of an appropriate set of standards for rural drinking
water made quality monitoring somewhat arbitrary and gathering of
statistical information difficult. During RWSS preparation, a set of
guidelines for rural drinking water quality was developed. This was later
reviewed by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and WHO and
endorsed by NPHCCO for dissemination.
1.41      Procurement of Locally Produced Goods and Equinment.  Under RWS,
all major categories of goods and equipment were procured through ICB. For
certain items such as cement and timber which were available locally in
abundance and at low prices, all bids were won by local suppliers. Two
issues were raised: merit of ICB for such items; and time/cost involved in
cross-country transportation. Under RWSS, some standard items that are
4    Revolving funds may be established for future locally financed
sanitation programs as required by the financing and cost recovery
proposals to be prepared.



- 10 .
readily available in China and which no foreign firm would have a
competitive advantage would be procured locally and provided by the civil
works contractors (para. 3.25).
1.42      Lessons Learned from the Low-cost Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Projecpt under the UNDP/World Bank Water and Sanitation Pro&Lam
(ODP/WB). The recently completed project included technological
development (deep-well handpump design and manufacturing, latrine
constructions) and demonstration in the autonomous regions of Xinjiang and
Inner Mongolia (Neimong). It was observed at completion that: (a) there is
a need for development of other appropriate low-cost technologies; (b)
alth igh the handpump caretakers employed by the township governments were
properly ma4ntaining the facilities, in the long-run, as the number of
facilities becomes more numerous, enhancing the capacity of communities to
perform operations and maintenance tasks would be preferred; (c) the water
supply and sanitation components were indeed complementary; and (d)
dissemination of experience to other provinces is needed.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Origin
2.1       During the mid-term review of RWS carried out jointly by the
Government and the Bank in 1987, one of the recommendations of the Review
Panel was for the Bank to continue its support to the sector through a
second project so that the efforts started by the first project could be
sustained. It was also suggested that the second project should focus on
less developed areas. In August 1989, the Government identified the
Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region (Guangxi), Yunnan Province (Yunnan), Hunan
Province (Hunan), Gansu Province (Gansu), Nei Mongol (Inner Mongolia)
Autonomous Region (Neimong) and Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region (Xinjiang)
as candidates, and formally approached the Bank for assistance. As a
result, a pre-identification mission visited China in December 1989,
followed by identification in April 1990.
B. Objectives
2.2       The overall objective is to improve health and productivity of
the poorest and most needy inhabitants of rural China by increasing
coverage of water supply, supported by sanitation services, health/hygiene
education, technical assistance and training. Through project preparation
and implementation, immediate objectives set for the project are to:
(a) develop long-term sectoral and sub-sectoral strategies to
prioritize investments at the county level;
(b) explore and develop appropriate low-cost alternatives as well as
formulate affordable and sustainable programs for water supply,



- 11 -
water treatment and sanitation through community participation
to maximize project impact;
(c) establish and maintain properly staffed institutions as well as
provide technical assistance and training to support adoption,
implementation and operation of investment programs;
(d) increase coverage in water supply, sanitation and health/hygiene
education through physical construction, provision of equipment
and utility vehicles, technical assistance and training; and
(e) establish on-going and expanding programs and enhance community
participation and replicability through provision of appropriate
models, development and distribution of standards and manuals,
as well as dissemination of experience and lessons learned.
C. Description
2.3       The proposed project would serve about 9.1 million rural
inhabitants in the six under-developed inland provinces of Guangxi, Yunnan,
Hunan, Gansu, Neimong and Xinjiang. A scoring system was devised and used
to rank all 560 counties in the six project provinces. Seventy-five
project counties were selected on the basis of income level, severity of
water-related health problems, extent of water shortage and proportion of
minorities in county population. A minimum of one county per prefecture
was selected to maximize coverage of physical characteristics and establish
capacity for replication. Adjustments were made to take into consideration
the communities' willingness and commitment to participate, population
density, ei:traordinary water-related health issues and balance among
minority nationalities. Details of the selection criteria and process are
included in the Project File. A description of the physical features of
the project provinces is in Annex 1. A list of project prefectures and
counties is given in Annex 2. The locations of project provinces,
prefectures and counties are shown in maps IBRD-23348 and IBRD-23276. The
project would comprise five components:
(a)  Water Smpnly (base cost US$120.9 million) - construction of
facilities such as waterworks systems, communal faucet systems,
wells with handpumps, developed springs, rainwater collectors
and related facilities to provide safe and sufficient drinking
water to some nine million rural inhabitants; provision of water
quality testing equipment and utility vehicles; continuation of
development, introduction and dissemination of new technologies
through demonstration, publication and distribution of manuals
and guidelines;
(b) Sanitation (base cost US$5.9 million) - construction of
facilities such as household, communal and school latrines,
animal enclosures and drainage ditches in selected demonstration
and pilot villages in each project county; provision of the
foundation for replicable programs by developing and



- 12 -
demonstrating all aspects of a program which delivers not just
latrines, but facilities which are demanded, effectively used
and sustained for the duration of their service life;
(c) Health/Hygiene Education (base cost US$6.1 million) - provision
of health/hygiene education to all project counties through
training of provincial, county and community administrators,
trainers, health care workers, teachers, community women and
through them the general population; construction of training
facilities; development and dissemination of training and
health/hygiene education materials; provision of materials,
supplies, equipment and utility vehicles;
(d) Technical Assistance and Training (base cost US$6.6 million) -
in conjunction with the on-going UNDP project (para 2.12),
provision of technical assistance and training in management,
finance, procurement, training of trainers, and technical
aspects of the first three project components at national,
provincial, prefecture, county and community levels; and
(e) Institution Establishment and Project Management (base cost
US$6.1 million) - construction of project offices and
dormitories; provision of office equipment; and financing of
project management and supervision activities.
2.4       Description of the five project components are detailed in Annex
3 to Annex 7. The outline of a terms of reference for a related study on
practices of human waste collection and use in agriculture is given in
Annex 8.
D. Cost Estimates
2.5       Total cost of the project is estimated to be about RMB Y1,094.6
million or US$189.1 million, net of duties and taxes. The total base cost
is estimated at RMB Y773.4 million or US$145.7 million. Estimated cost by
component and by province are summarized in Tab'ls 2.1 and 2.2. More
detailed project costs are presented in Annex 9. A small national level
component of about US$1.2 million has been included in project costs to
cover expenses to be incurred by the National Project Office (NPO) for
general technical assistance, NPO managed training, office facilities and
project management. Expenditures would be shared among the six project
provinces as the NPO does not have other means to cover these expenses.
Foreign exchange cost of the project is estimated at US$84.9 million or
about 45 percent of total base cost.



- 13 -
Table 2.1: Summary Proiect Cost by Component
Loca                  Local Foreign  Total  Base Foreign
--(RMB Y Million)--  ---(US$ Million)---   (%)   (%)
Water Supply         319.4  322.7  642.0   60.1   60.8  120.9   83    50
Sanitation            31.3      --   31.3    5.9      --    5.9    4       0
Health Education      22.8    9.7   32.5    4.3    1.8    6.1    4    30
TA and Training5      26.9    8.4   35.2    5.1    1.6    6.6    5    24
Inst. Est. & Mgmt    25.8    6.6   32.4    4.9    1.2    6.1    4    20
Total Base Cost      426.1  347Z3  773.4   80.2   65.4  145.7  100    45
Phy. Contingencies   42.6   34.7   77.3    8.0    6.5   14.6   10    45
Price Cont.6         134.4  109.4  243.9   15.9   13.0   28.9   20    45
Total Proj. Cost7   603j1  491.5 1094.6  104.2   84.9  189.1  130    45
Table 2.2: Summary Proiect Cost by Province
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Base Foreign
--(RMB Y Million)--  ---(US$ Million)---  (%)   (%)
National          3.5    1.5    5.0    0.7    0.3    0.9    1    30
Guangxi          98.1   61.1  159.1   18.5   11.5   30.0   20    38
Yunnan           78.1   55.6  133.7   14.7   10.5   25.2   17    42
Hunan            89.8   86.9  176.8   16.9   16.4   33.3   23    49
Gansu            54.6   53.1  107.6   10.3   10.0   20.3   14    49
Neimong          55.9   37.5   93.4   10.5    7.1   17.6   12    40
Xinjiang         46.1   51.7   97.9    8.7    9.7   18.4   13    53
Total Base Cost      426.1  34Z.3  .773.4   8.2   65,4  145.7  100    45
Phy. Contingencies   42.6   34.7   77.3    8.0    6.5   14.6   10    45
Price Contingencies 134.4  109.4  243.9   15.9   13.0   28.9   20    45
Total Project Cost  603.1  42125 1094.6  104.2   8,   189.1  130    45
Note: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
s    Includes health education for PPO and CPO staff only.  All other
health education training activities are included in the health/hygiene
education component.
6    Price contingencies amount to 19.8 percent of base cost and 18.0
percent of total base cost plus physical contingencies.
7    Project-financed goods are exempted from import duties and taxes.



- 14 -
2.6       Base costs are expressed in end-1990 prices.  Civil works,
labor, local materials and services are estimated at prevailing local
prices; ICB goods, equipment and services are based on recent international
procurement experience. Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been
added to all project components. Price contingencies have been included as
follows: domestic escalation rates of 10 percent for 1991, 8 percent for
1992, and 5 percent per annum thereafter; international escalation rates of
9 percent for 1991, 1.1 percent for 1992 and 2.95 percent per annum
thereafter.
E. Financing Plan
2.7       The credit of US$110.0 million at standard IDA terms would
finance about 58 percent of total project requirements. The remaining 42
percent would be funded by various levels of governments, communities and
individuals. Financing plans of individual provinces vary in accordance
with their needs to borrow IDA funds and the local governments' and users'
ability to contribute. Summary project financing plan is presented in
Table 2.3. Financing plans by province and by component are given in Annex
10. The credit is expected to cover all foreign exchange requirements and
an average of 24 percent of local costs.
Table 2.3: Financing Plan
Local    Foreign    Total  Percent
--- (US$ Million) -----
Provinces and Prefectures         23.0                 23.0      12
Counties and Townships            18.9                  18.9     10
Communities and Individuals       37.2          -       37.2     20
IDA                               25.1       84.9     110.0      58
Total                       104.2      84.9      189.1    100
F. Onlending Arrangements
2.8       Proceeds of the credit would be passed on to the sub-project
entities (a sub-project entity may be a village, a group of villages, a
township, a water company, or a county, depending on the size and ownership
structure of the proposed works) in two steps, first from the Central
Government (Ministry of Finance) to the provinces, then from the provinces
through the counties to the sub-project entities. Based on provincial
preferences and their foreign exchange earning capabilities, MOF will
determine whether to onlend to the provinces in foreign exchange or local
currency to cover local cost expenditures.
2.9       During negotiations, onlending terms and conditions from the
Government to the project provinces were confirmed as follows:



15 -
(a) foreign exchange portion (denominated in SDR) - fixed interest
of two percent per annum for a 20-year maturity including five
years grace, foreign exchange risk would be borne by the
provinces and not to be passed on to lower level governments or
sub-project entities; and
(b) local currency portion (denominated in RMB) - fixed interest of
four percent per annum for a 20-year maturity including five
years grace.
Further on-lending from the province down would be at fixed interest of
four percent per annum for a maximum maturity of 20 years including up to
five years of grace. Foreign exchange risks would be borne by the
provinces.
C. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.10      The project would support the Bank Group's objective of
increasing its focus on poverty and the environment in lending to China.
The continuation of IDA's participation in the rural water supply sub-
sector is essential to sustain the momentum generated under RWS. The
integrated approach of RWSS would provide an opportunity to develop and
demonstrate appropriate models for national replication. Experience and
lessons learned from earlier projects (paras. 1.30-1.42) are being shared
in workshops. Various manuals developed and published under RWS are being
disseminated to new project areas to facilitate sub-project planning and
design. During project preparation, existing water supply manuals were
reviewed and gaps were identified. A supplemental manual on non-piped
technologies is being prepared. Water quality guidelines appropriate for
the rural setting were developed. A first sanitation planning and design
manual is also under preparation.
2.11      In addition, IDA's involvement would foster communication and
collaboration among governmental agencies at national as well as local
levels. It would help the borrower gain access to knowledge of and
experience with appropriate alternative low-cost technologies developed and
proven successful in other parts of the world. RWSS is designed to build
on and complement work already planned locally and by international
agencies such as the UNDP/WB (paras. 1.42 and 2.12.) and the European
Economic Community (EEC) (para. 2.13). Due to IDA's involvement, the
project is also expected to draw support from other international and
bilateral agencies such as the WHO, the United Nations Children's Emergency
Fund (UNICEF), the World Food Program (WFP) and the Danish International
Development Agency (DANIDA).
H. International Donor Agency SuRport
2.12      United Nations Development Programme.  In cooperation with the
Bank and the Gesellschaft fUr Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ), UNDP has
provided technical assistance to the water and sanitation sector since
1983. Low-cost and appropriate technologies for poor and remote



- 16 -
communities were introduced. After initial field testing, demonstratior
handpumps (such as deep-well and direct-action types) and latrines (such as
the ventilated improved pit (VIP) type) were installed between 1986 to 1987
in the provinces of Hebei, Hunan and Beijing Municipality. To demonstrate
proper planning, implementation and maintenance of low-cost community water
supply and sanitation programs, the "Low-Cost Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Project" was initiated in 1988 and satisfactorily completed in
1990 in Xinjiang and Neimong (para. 1.42). As a direct support to RWSS,
the "Capacity Building and Investment Preparation for Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation in Poor and Remote Areas Project" covering the same six
provinces as RWSS was approved in August 1991. Total project cost is
estimated at US$3.7 million, UNDP would provide about US$1.2 million to
cover all foreign costs. The project would include about 18 staff-months
and 78 staff-months of technical assistance input by international and
national consultants respectively. A more detailed description of the
project is provided in Annex 11.
2.13      Eurogean E.onomic Community.  In collaboration with NPHCCO, an
EEC funded consultant completed and published three sector study reports
(one at national level and two for the provinces of Gansu and Guizhou) for
the rural water supply sub-sector in 1990. The primary objectives of the
studies were to identify ways to: (a) improve water supply services to
rural areas; (b) increase the effectiveness of investment; and (c)
strengthen the institutional capabilities of sector agencies. A sum of 1.1
million European Currency Units (US$1.2 million equivalent) was provided to
finance foreign costs. In addition, EEC also sponsored training of local
personnel of the newly completed China Rural Water Supply Technical Center
(para. 3.5) and provided office equipment to NPHCCO.
III. PRCJECT IMPLEMENTATIQO
A. Organization for ImRlementation
3.1       Project implementation is divided into national, provincial and
county levels. Leading groups have been formed to provide policy guidance
and inter-sectoral coordination. Project offices have been established to
carry out day-to-day project implementation functions. These offices would
be supported by other organizations involved in the sector as well as by
international and national consultants.
3.2       National Level.  A leading group comprising the Minister of MOPH
(concurrently Director of NPHCCO), and two directors from MOPH and NPHCCO
would provide overall policy guidance. A National Project Office (NPO)
under the auspices of NPHCCO has been established to handle all project
related activities at the center. The office is staffed with personnel
from MOPH and NPHCCO and is expected to function relatively independently
for its day-to-day work including coordination with IDA and other central
agencies in addition to overall project management, monitoring, control and
evaluation. NPO is also responsible for preparation of consolidated



- 17 -
project accounts, approval of technical designs for large sub-projects, ICB
procurement, and organizing technical assistance and training activities
for national and provincial level staff.
3.3        rlovincial and County Levels. At the provincial level, leading
groups or the existing Provincial Patriotic Health Campaign Committees
comprising senior officials from related sectors and headed by vice-
governors would be responsible for providing policy guidance. Provincial
project offices (PPOs) have been set up along the lines of the NPO to
perform corresponding functions at the provincial level. Similar
organizations were also set-up at the county level.
3.4       The organization charts of the NPO, PPOs and CPOs, the detailed
delineation of functions and responsibilities and flow of communication
among the various level offices, policy making bodies, supporting agencies
and communities are presented in Annex 12. Staffing of the project offices
is given in Annex 13. At present, only about 70 percent of planned
positions are filled. It is expected that the offices would be fully
staffed by the end of the first year of implementation. During
negotiations. assurances were obtained that the NPO, PPOs and CPOs would be
maintained with gualified staff in adequate numbers.
3.5       SuRporting Institutions.  The China Rural Water Supply Technical
Center (CRWSTC) under NPHCCO which started its operation in November 1991
in Changping (suburban Beijing) is expected to provide training facilities,
assist NPO to recruit trainers, and prepare materials for certain training
courses. Health/hygiene education campaigns, training programs and
textbook preparation would be coordinated, supported and evaluated at the
national level by the National Health Education Institute which can bring
some valuable experience to this task and the Center. The CRWSTC is also
expected to carry out research and produce materials for health and hygiene
education. The Center is headed by a director and has a technical staff of
about 25. It is comprised of five divisions of which three are technical:
water supply, sanitation, training and health education. Services of the
CRWSTC are expected to be provided to project offices at cost.
3.6       At the local level, the existing design and research institutes,
health education institutes, local level health organizations, and
construction offices of local governments are expected to provide support
to the project. Specifically, the health/hygiene education component would
be primarily the responsibility of the provincial health education
institutes who would oversee its implementation by the district health
education institutes, by the Epidemic Prevention Stations at the county
level and, where available, by health centers at the township level.
B. Status of Project Prenaration
3.7       Proiect Appraisal Approach.  In order to allow more flexible
planning in outer years as project entities gain experience with new
technologies and approaches introduced in the initial years, it was decided
that the project would be appraised in a programmatic fashion with rolling



- 18 -
plans for each project component to be prepared, reviewed and approved
annuallv (para. 3.18).
3.8       Status of Preparation.  During project preparation, the project
team examined long-term strategies, their underlying principles and
investment programs of each component based on detailed first year programs
and outline programs for the remaining years. Draft national, provincial
(six) and county (18, three representative proposals per province) project
proposals and typical design reports for water supply and sanitation
constructions were reviewed in detail. The proposals and design reports
including the 47 county proposals not reviewed by IDA were prepared by the
various project offices with support from a consultant team financed under
the Second UNDP Umbrella Project. Although marked improvements have been
made to the original proposals over the project preparation period, some
adjustments are still being incorporated into the revised documents to
reflect decisions made during appraisal and negotiations. Understanding
has been reached on the following timetable for their submission to the
Association by the NPO: (a) January 31, 1992 - National Project Proposal
and letter affirming that agreements reached during appraisal and
negotiations have been properly and adequately reflected in the revised
individual provincial and county proposals; and (b) by Effectiveness - all
six provincial proposals and 18 representative county proposals.
3.9       In order to establish appropriate guidelines and acceptable
standards for the design of non-piped water supply and sanitation
facilities, manuals drafted by NPHCCO are currently being reviewed by
international experts. Finalized design manuals are expected to be
published by April 15, 1992. During negotiations. agreement was reached
that the use of project funds for civil works would be subiect to the
satisfactory dissemination of these design manuals. Distribution of the
two manuals to all project counties are expected to be completed by May 31,
1992.
C. Implementation Strategy and Program
3.10      The bulk of project funds would be used for physical
construction of water supply facilities as the demand for such services is
obviously high. Sanitation and health/hygiene education have been included
in the project in recognition of their complementarity to water supply
improvements in achieving the project objectives of improved health of
rural communities. Technical assistance, training and institution
establishment components would provide the necessary support for
implementation and future replication. RWSS has been designed to exploit
and demonstrate the benefits of an integrated approach of these components.
3.11      Water Supply.  The first year investment program would comprise,
in the main, construction of facilities using conventional technologies
well accepted by the communities. Household connections would be kept at a
minimum in order to benefit more villages. Appropriate new technologies
(low-cost, non-piped systems) included in the supplemental design manual
(paras. 1.22 and 3.9) would also be tested and demonstrated. Outer year



- 19 -
investment programs are expected to include a higher percentage of new
technologies as experience accumulates and the demonstrated non-
conventional technologies gain acceptance. In order to ensure proper
programming of outer year activities, a process (hurdle test) for the
selection of appropriate and cost-effective water supply technologies based
on physical characteristics and financial considerations was developed.
The agreed process would be adopted for use by the project counties.
3.12      SIatEin. The component was designed recognizing not only the
very limited budget available, but also the need to develop and demonstrate
successful implementation strate4ies, to promote demand for improved
sanitation, and to make more hygienic the historical practice of utilizing
human wastes in agriculture. During the initial years, project and related
activities would include: (a) preparation of draft provincial rural
sanitation strategies in each province to provide the basis for on-going
programs; (b) a focus on pilot villages and demonstration sites (in non-
pilot villages) in each project county which can serve as examples for
subsequent replication in the immediate vicinity; (c) construction only of
latrine designs contained in the sanitation manual, or approved as meeting
guidelines set down in the manual, so that their performance can be
evaluated; (d) testing and refining of financing and cost recovery
proposals; (e) training of latrine builders to meet the expanded demand of
on-going and expanding programs; and (f) in conjunction with RWSS execution
of an externally assisted study of human waste use in agriculture (para.
2.4).
3.13      Health_ EduSation.  In order to devise effective health education
programs, each province has formulated a strategy which: sets out the
proposed objectives and targets; determines the intended target groups
(e.g., families below a certain income level, peasants and herdsmen,
minority nationalities, children, mothers, wom.in); determines the degree of
participatory versus instructional approach in conveying hygiene and health
education messages; selects the principal health education instruments to
be applied; proposes the required institutional responsibilities; and
decides on knowledge, attitude and practices (KAP) studies as well as on
the system of monitoring and evaluation.
3.14      On the basis of this strategy, each province has prepared a
broadly defined five-year hygiene and health education program in support
of the project. These programs include activities such as: training of
trainers and familiarization campaigns for community leaders; writing of
training manuals; preparation and instruction of hygiene and health
education classes; revision of hygiene and health education textbooks;
initiation and implementation of hygiene and health education campaigns for
the project; development of health personnel curricula and their
implementation; establishment and training of theater groups; and devising
and implementation of specific media programs. For the first project year
of this five-year program, the hygiene and health education activities have
been defined in much more detail and then prioritized, thus serving as a
work program.



- 20 -
3.15      A two-pronged approach would be used in the project.  While
guidance to invoke significant changes in hygiene habits must originate
from the top by the respective authorities who would also need to provide
the necessary conditions in terms of trained personnel and other resources,
most of the household level training should be carried out by the villagers
themselves through selected village women. Thus, these community women
would be the key trainers for their families and other families alike.
3.16      The project would work not only with the conventional palette of
hygiene and health education instruments in familiarizing the project
beneficiaries with the desirable changes in water and sanitation practices
and in changing age-old attitudes and hygiene behavior. Since most of the
project beneficiaries are poor, not well educated and may belong to
remotely located minority groups who are often apprehensi-ve about any
outside influences, an intensive and interactive training approach devised
by health educators and social scientists with extensive experience with
rural and minority populations would be used. The resulting training
programs would have a strong participatory content in order to raise
awareness, to ensure that the whole community supports the proposed
activities, and to pay due regard to the needs of the particular
circumstances of each village.
3.17      Technical Assistance and Training.  The introduction of new
technologies and approaches makes implementation of well planned technical
assistance and training programs crucial to the success of the project.
The technical assistance component would include both international and
national experts to provide advice and review for the water supply,
sanitation and the health and hygiene education programs. Foreign experts
would mainly be working with the national and provincial level offices and
would concentrate on the training of trainers ar.d national experts. The
CRWSTC would be used for some national training courses (para. 3.5). Local
experts would be expected to assume the advisory role for the provincial,
county and township/village level offices and training of their staff and
workers. The NPO, PPOs and CPOs have each prepared a training schedule and
the overall program would be coordinated by the NPO and updated yearly at a
training conference.
D. Implementation Plan and Schedule
3.18      The proposed project is expected to be implemented over a period
of about five years (mid-1992 to mid-1997). Implementation schedules for
RWSS and related activities are shown in Annex 14. In line with the
programmatic aptroach. during negotiations. assurances were obtained that
starting 1;s92: (a) the PPOs would prepare Drovincial Droject implementation
Rrogramsg for the following year and submit them to the NPO for review and
8    These plans would contain, inter alia, information on the number of
villages in project counties with fluoride levels higher than 2.0 mg/liter
as well as the number of villages with improvements planned to provide
water supply with acceptable fluoride levels of 2.0 mg/liter or less.



- 21 -
approval no later than September 1: and (b) the NPO would prepare a
comprehensive project implementation program including plans for the
national component and the six provinces for the following year and submit
thr _lart to IDA for review and approval no later than October 15.  It was
understood that in order to align project plaiining with fiscal planning, an
interim implementation plan covering the period from project effectiveness
to December 31, 1992 would be prepared. The consolidated plan would be
submitted to IDA by the NPO by April 15, 1992.
E. Sub-Project Preparation
3.19      Water Supply.  During appraisal, representative design reports
of piped systems and typical non-piped schemes were reviewed and found
satisfactory, with the exception of shallow-well handpumps which would
require improvements. For piped systems, planning and design manuals
developed under RWS would be used. For non-piped technologies, the
supplemental design manual which is expected to be available by May 31,
1992 (para. 3.9) would be used. The CPOs would have authority to review
and approve designs for construction of less than RMB YO.5 million and the
PPOs for construction between RMB YO.5 million and Y2.0 million. For
construction over RMB Y2.0 million, NPO's review and approval would be
required. All proposed piped systems would undergo a three-step process:
(a) submission of proposal in the format as agreed during negotiations; (b)
preliminary design; and (c) detailed engineering design9.  During
negotiations. assurances were obtained that planning and design of sub-
riects would be done in accordance with the criteria contained in the
21 aning and design manuals and the agreed criteria and procedures fox
review and aRproval of sub-projects would be followed.
3.20      Sanitation.  In line with the programmatic approach to appraisal
of the project only the first year projects have been appraised in detail.
However, the sanitation component is relatively small and the range of
designs of sanitation facilities is limited. All sub-projects must be
based on designs which are included in the Sanitation Manual due to be
distributed by March 31, 1992 (para. 3.9) or which conform to guidelines
and criteria laid down in that manual and are specifically approved.
Latrine designs will be reviewed after the first year of the project to
assess the quality and ease of construction, use and maintenance of the
facility, and its performance in treating the wastes. Future sub-projects
will not include any latrine types which are assessed as unsatisfactory and
criteria will be established for the review and approval of each
sub-project proposal.
3.21      The sanitation component includes intensive improvement of
sanitation facilities in 150 model villages where a high degree of service
coverage is desired. These sub-projects will cover one or more villages in
each project county and will be constructed during the initial two to three
9    For small piped systems expected to cost less than RMB YO.5 million,
steps (a) and (b) may be combined.



22 -
years of the project. After a model village project is completed, further
sanitation sub-projects can be implemented by expanding the sanitation
program to other pilot villages located within the same vicinity as the
model village which will serve as an example to be followed. Criteria for
selection of pilot villages will include: a reasonably even geographic
distribution; concentration on the larger villages or groups of villages;
and the enthusiasm of villagers as indicated by their commitment to make
contributions in cash or kind and to repay any financial assistance from
government. Sub-projects in pilot villages will provide only a small
number of latrines which will be built for training and demonstration
purposes. Depending on the availability of funds through cost recovery,
and on the amount of private contributions towards latrine construction,
the sub-projects will expand to increase the sanitation coverage of each
village.
3.22      Health Education.  With the first-year hygiene and health
education program clearly defined, the hygiene and health education
component can be implemented quickly in parallel with the start-up of the
water supply systems and the initial pilot sanitation facilities. During
this initial period, most of the training of trainers at the provincial,
county and village level will have to take place. During the following
years, detailed annual plans will be prepared for each of the following
years until project completion.
3.23      Special emphasis would be put on the early construction and
operation of training facilities and other physical infrastructure needed
to support the hygiene and health education component, such as design
studios and office accommodations for health educators who are presently
often without adequate work space. The acquisition of television, video
and hygiene and health education materials would only take place after the
approval of the detailed annual hygiene and health education program.
F. Procurement
3.24      The items to be procured under the project are civil works,
materials and equipment, utility vehicles, technical assistance and
training. The NPO would be responsible for the overall coordination of
procurement activities, training in procurement at provincial level and the
ICB procurement process. The PPOs would be responsible for the LCB
procurement process and local training. Deliveries of materials would be
staggered to accommodate the implementation schedules of the provinces and
counties. The respective offices would be responsible for the storage and
accounting of the project materials and equipment. All procurement would
follow the Association's Procurement Guidelines.
3.25      Civil Works.  Civil works would include construction of water
supply and sanitation facilities and buildings (offices, dormitories,
training facilities, and material depots/warehouses). Because of the small
sizes and dispersed locations, all civil works would be contracted by LCB,
local shopping or force account. Contracts above US$400,000 would be
contracted by the PPOs following LCB procedures acceptable to the



- 23
Association. Local shopping procedures with at least three bids from pre-
qualified contractors could be used for contracts below US$400,000 up to an
aggregate amount of US$63.0 million. Included in this amount, force
account may be used for facilities below US$20,000 in areas where there is
no adequately qualified or interested contractor up to an aggregate amount
of US$13.5 million. The contractors would be asked to provide all local
materials, including cement as it would simplify contracting and facilitate
the construction process. Contracts expected to cost between US$100,000
and US$400,000 would be contracted by the PPOs and contracts less than
US$100,000 would be contracted by the CPOs. Construction supervision would
be carried out by the CPOs, PPbs and the NPO as appropriate.
3.26      Goods. Equipment and Materials.  Procurement of major items of
goods: pipes, steel and pumps along with audio-visual training equipment
and utility vehicles amounting to about US$77.3 million would be packaged
and carried out by the NPO following ICB procedures. The China National
Machinery Import/Export Corporation International Tendering Division would
act as the procurement agency. Qualified domestic suppliers would receive
a preference in bid evaluation on ICB bidding of 15 percent or the
prevailing rate of customs duties and import taxes, whichever is lower.
All packages above US$0.2 million for equipment or materials are expected
to be procured through ICB procedures.
3.27      Technical Assistance and Training.  Both national and
international consultants would be used in the technical assistance and
training activities and would be selected following the "Guidelines on the
Use of Consultants by the World Bank and its Borrowers". A total of about
47 person-months of foreign and 240 person-months of local technical
assistance is provided in the project.
3.28      IDA Review.  The Association would review, prior to bidding,
items of goods and equipment to be procured under ICB along with changes
made in the standardized bidding documents. Standardized bidding documents
prepared for China under the auspices of IDA and MOF for ICB of goods and
equipment and LCB of civil works would be used. Prior review of civil
works contracts over US$2.0 million and goods/equipment contracts over
US$0.5 million would result in about five contracts subject to IDA's prior
review, covering about 80 percent of total expenditures. In addition, IDA
would review consultant contracting procedures and contract awards above
US$10,000. Sample post reviews of civil works procured by LCB and other
methods would be carried out during regular supervision missions.
3.29      The planned procurement arrangements are summarized in the
following Table 3.1.



- 24 -
Table 3.1: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
ICB    LCB   Other1o  NIF
Total
a. Water Supply Systems                     26.7   62.6             89.3
(9.3) (21.8)           (31.1)
b. Sanitation Facilities                                   4.8       4.8
(0.0)    (0.0)
c. Buildings                                               1.1       1.1
(0.0)    (0.0)
g0ods andf Egigm-ent
a. Materials                        56.7                            56.7
(56.7)                         (56.7)
b. Pumps and Equipment              13.1                            13.1
(13.1)                         (13.1)
c. Audio-visual Equipment            0.7                             0.7
(0.7)                          (0.7)
d. Utility Vehicles                  6.8                             6.8
(6.8)                          (6.8)
Technical Assistance and Thaining
a. Tech. Assistance & Training                      8.7              8.7
(1.6)           (1.6)
b. Design Review & Supervision                             7.9       7.9
(0.0)    (0.0)
TOTAL                                     77.3   26.7   21,3  13.8    189.1
(IDA Financed)                          (77.3)  (9.3) (23.4)  (0.0)  (110.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
NIF - Not IDA Financed
10   Other methods include local shopping procedures approved by the
Association for civil works and consultant services as well as force
account for limited civil works.



- 25 -
G. Management and Community Participation
3.30     liater Supply.  For piped water systems, water companies will be
set up under the supervision of the township government. A typical company
is composed of three divisions: management (accounting, billing and
collection); operation and maintenance (technical) and water quality
monitoring. Management of non-pipe systems and community rain-water
cisterns rests with the township government's unit which is responsible for
assigning well caretakers. The concerned households would be responsible
for household rainwater collectors.
3.31      In all project development stages, comuunity involvement and
participation including women would be encouraged by the government. In
the long-run, village level organizations would be established to be
responsible for the operation and management of non-piped water systems and
public latrines (para. 1.42).
3.32      Health/Hygiene Education.  Primary implementation responsibility
for the component lies with the Patriotic Health Campaign Committee Offices
and/or Public Health Bureaus of each province. Project activities will be
administered by the PPOs. The health education institutes will prepare
long-term and annual programs based on the proposals submitted by each of
the 75 project counties. During implementation of these programs, the
leaders at the district, township and village levels, health and social
workers as well as teachers, community women and other village hygiene and
health education facilitators will play important roles in conveying
messages relating to proper water, sanitation and hygiene practices as well
as adherence to good health and hygiene standards.
3.33      At the community level, household visits and group discussions,
rather than didactic and theoretical training, would be organized by the
community leaders themselves and supervised and monitored by the respective
health education institute. At the national level, the NPO would
administer hygiene and health education activities of all six project
provinces with expert guidance from CRWSTC and the National Health
Education Institute.
H. Operations and Maintenance
3.34      Water SuDplY Facilities.  For piped water supply systems, water
companies will be established and adequately staffed by the townships with
responsibilities in management (billing, collection and accounting),
operation and maintenance (technical) and water quality control. Operation
and maintenance of the non-piped community systems such as deep-well
handpumps and cisterns would be undertaken by caretakers assigned by the
township government. However, it is expected that community associations
would be established to carry out the functions in due course as the number
of systems becomes numerous. Households will be responsible for wells and
rainwater collectors serving single families.



- 26 -
3.35      Sanitation Facilities.  Sanitation facilities to be constructed
under the project include both public/communal facilities and those which
are privately owned. School latrines will be the responsibility of each
school to maintain whereas public latrines come under the control of the
Town Station for Sanitation of the Urban Construction Bureaus. Collection
and removal of nightsoil is to be contracted to a local farmer who will be
responsible for cleaning and maintaining the facilities. Private
facilities will be operated and maintained by each household.
I. Disbursement
3.36      There is not a standard disbursement profile for rural water
supply projects in China. The credit would be disbursed over a period of
about six years as the project is expected to cover an investment program
of about five years. Estimated credit disbursement schedule is given in
Annex 15. The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997 and the
closing date would be December 31, 1997. The proposed disbursement
arrangements are summarized in Table 3.2. The credit would finance about
32 percent of total civil works for water supply facilities.
Table 3.2: Disbursement Arrangements
Category                Amount           Exgenditures to be Financed (%)
Civil Works               28.0           Guangxi  - 40%
for Water Supply                        Yunnan   - 40%
Facilities                              Hunan    - 35%
Gansu    - 60%
Neimong  - 10%
Xinjiang - 45%
Goods, Equipment,         69.6            100% of foreign expenditures and
Materials and                            100% of local expenditures (ex-
Utility Vehicles                         factory).
Consultant Services        1.6           100% of foreign expenditures
and Training
Unallocated               10.8
Total               110.O
3.37      Special Account.  In order .o facilitate disbursement, a Special
Account would be maintained by MOF with an authorized allocation of US$7.0
million to cover about four months of expected requirements for IDA
financed items. Application for replenishment would be submitted monthly
to IDA or whenever the account is drawn down by about 50 percent of its
initial deposit, whichever occurs first.



- 27 -
3.38      Documentation of Expenditures.  Disbursement would normally be
made against full documentation except in the cases of civil works carried
out by force account, contracts for works and goods valued at less than
US$200,000 and consulting services valued at less than US$10,000 when
reimbursements would be made on the basis of Statemeaits of Expenditures
(SOEs). MOF would be responsible for maintaining and certifying the SOEs,
aggregating the eligible expenditures and preparing withdrawal applications
for submission to IDA. Documentation supporting SOEs would be retained by
MOF and made available to IDA for review during supervision missions.
Civil works carried out by force accounts should be supported by progress
reports showing unit costs agreed by IDA and reflected in the annual
project implementation programs.
3.39      Provincial Revolving Accounts.  In order to facilitate
disbursement for local cost expenditures, six provincial Revolving
Accounts, one for each of the six project provinces would be established.
During negotiations, it was agreed that each Revolving Account would be
opened no later than April 30. 1992 and maintained in RMB with an
allocation to cover about three months of expected local cost expenditures.
Pro'edures for withdrawal and replenishment have already been drafted and
will be provided to the Association. It is expected that replenishments
would be made monthly. Provincial allocations are estimated to be as
follows: Gansu US$310,000; Guangxi US$370,000; Hunan US$350,000; Neimong
US$60,000; Xinjiang US$210,000 and Yunnan US$280,000.
J. Monitoring. Supervision and Evaluation
3.40      A methodology for monitoring project status, reporting,
reviewing and taking corrective actions has been devised. The flow of
information would emanate from the CPOs which would compile all sub-project
status reports and activities carried out by them. These progress reports
would be forwarded to the PPOs on a quarterly basis. The PPOs would
consolidate county reports and activities carried out by the PPOs to form
quarterly provincial reports and forward them to the NPO. The NPO would in
turn consolidate provincial reports and activities carried out by the NPO
to form quarterly national progress reports. During negotiations,
understanding was reached that the NPO, throughout project implementation,
would submit consolidated semi-annual progress reports for all project
activities to the Association, starting January 31, 1993 for the six-month
period ended December 31, 1992.
3.41      Major monitoring indicators include: project cost estimates,
implementation schedule, staffing, status of ICB and LCB procurement,
physical progress, affordability analysis, progress of health education,
technical assistance and training programs, major implementation issues as
well as proposed solutions and required actions. Proposed monitoring
indicators are given in Annex 16. Detailed contents and format of semi-
annual progress report were discussed and confirmed during negotiations. A
supervision plan for the first year of project implementation is presented
in Annex 17. Supervision plans for subsequent years would be developed in
parallel with project implementation plans.



- 28 -
3.42      Design review and construction supervision would be undertaken
by staff of the CPOs, PPOs or the NPO depending on the scale of the sub-
project. These offices would be supported by consultants and engineering
institutes if necessary. Supervision will involve assessment of quantity,
quality, progress of constructions; control and distribution of materials
and equipment on site; resolution of site problems and certification of
completion and payments. Project evaluation would measure achievement of
project objectives and annual plans as well as deviation from norms.
Lessons learnt would also be used in the formulation of future plans.
3.43      A project completion report would be submitted by the NPO to IDA
within six months of the closing date of December 31, 1997.
IV. FINANCE
A. Past Performance
4.1       The central government is generally not involved in the
financing of physical facilities in the rural water supply and sanitation
sector. Capital costs for rural water supply are mostly (about 90 percent)
met by communities, rural enterprises and household users, supplemented by
budgetary allocations from local government at various levels (para. 1.17).
Capital costs for public sanitation facilities are often funded by local
governments while household facilities are privately built with virtually
no subsidy. Expenditures for health and hygiene education are covered by
local budgets. Except for the facilities built under RWS, there has been
virtually no use of debt for financing investments.
4.2       At the consumer level, users of public water supply systems
almost always pay the recurrent costs. Metered household connections where
users pay in accordance with actual consumption are still uncommon. Most
villagers pay a per capita charge based on average consumption and rate set
by the authorities. Meters are more commonly installed for commercial and
rural enterprises and generally these consumers are subject to higher
rates. Charges are usually collected on a monthly basis, either in cash or
from collective funds of the villages. Water charges normally cover the
cost of operations and maintenance, and often times some depreciation.
Maintenance costs of public latrines are generally borne by the local
government, facilities are provided to users free of charge.
B. CounterRart Financing Arrangements
4.3       Wgter Supply.  An average of about 34 percent of civil works and
materials for construction of water supply systems under RWSS would be
financed locally. Provincial and prefecture governments' agreed
contribution to the project would be appropriated annually and made
available to the CPOs through the county finance offices in tranches in
accordance with annual budgets which are generally approved during the
first quarter of each year. At the county and township levels, funds would



- 29 -
be ollocated more frequently depending on needs and physical progress of
construction. At the village level, community and beneficiaries' cash
contribution would be collected three to six months in advance to ensure
firm commitment from the users and to cover start-up expenditures. Between
30 and 40 percent of contribution by users would be in-kind (labor and
local construction materials). Details of various procedures proposed for
collection of counterpart funds are described in project proposals included
in the Project File.
4.4       Sanitation.  All sanitation facilities to be built under the
project would be locally financed. Public and school latrines would be
funded by the local governments through budgetary allocations.
Demonstration household latrines and other sanitation facilities would be
heavily subsidized (up to 70 percent) during the initial years to encourage
support. Progressive reduction in subsidy would be necessary for the
program to be sustainable. It is expected that at the end of the project,
70-80 percent of capital cost for private facilities would be contributed
by the users in cash or in kind.
4.5       Other Comnonents.  Counterpart funds would be used to cover all
local costs of the health education, technical assistance and training, and
institution establishment and project management components. These
expenditures would be provided through budgetary allocations in accordance
with the agreed financing plans.
C. Cost Recovery Plans and Water Charges
4.6       Paying full cost for water supply services is generally expected
of and accepted by consumers. For sub-projects built under RWSS, the same
principle would be continued. Since all project components other than
sanitation which is concentrated in pilot villages and demonstration areas
are seen as directly benefitting the entire population served by water
supply, it was decided that tha credit would be recovered through water
charges unless otherwise agreed as in Hunan, Gansu and Xinjiang where the
governments had agreed to provide subsidies for debt service (Annex 10).
4.7       For all project counties, water charges required to recover net
cost (i.e. full costs less subsidies) of each type of water supply
technology have been derived. Tariff level and consumer affordability are
discussed in section E. During negotiations. assurances were obtained that
water charges for all sub-projects would be set to cover operations and
maintenance costs plus the pro-rated Rortion of the amount to be repaid by
the Rrovince to MOF not covered by government subsidies: and operations and
maintenance costs and depreciation after the debt has been amortized.
D. Provincial and County Finances
4.8       Affordability at the Provincial Level.  Historically,
expenditure in the rural water supply and sanitation sector has been less
than one percent of total spending in all project provinces. Between the
years 1987 and 1989, the annual expenditure of RMB Y41.7 million (0.5



- 30 -
percent of total expenditures) in Hunan ranked highest in absolute terms.
4rojected annual financing for RWSS would comprise an average of 0.08
percent of total provincial budget with Gansu at the top at 0.19 percent.
Average outlay for the year of peak spending is about RMB Y5.0 million per
province with Gansu the highest at RMB Y8.8 million. Based on the absolute
and relative sizes of the governments' financial commitment to the project,
it is expected that the provincial governments would be able to meet their
obligations. It is also expected that the provinces would ensure that the
counties and communities under their jurisdiction would do likewise.
4.9       Affordability at the County Level.  Statistics on historical
county spending on the sector are hard to obtain and data collected is
rather unreliable. However, it can be stated that sector investment varied
greatly. Exceptionally high expenditures are generally linked to special
local campaigns and initiatives. During the period 1987 to 1989, sector
spending in each of the 75 project counties ranged from less than 0.01
percent to 6.6 percent of total county budgets.
4.10      Over the project implementation period, counties' annual RWSS
expenditures are projected to take up between 0.3 to 3.1 percent of total
annual county budgets. For many project counties, particularly the very
poor ones, these commitments are high compared to historical trends.
During the course of project preparation, county governments had repeatedly
stated their commitment and willingness to accord high priority to the
project. In view of the common practice of allocating funds for special
initiatives, and the still relatively small size of the project, the
proposed investment plans appear to be financially affordable at the county
level. Summarized provincial and county finances are presented in Annex
18. Historical and projected financial data for all project provinces and
counties over the period 1987 to 1992 are included in the Project File.
4.11      Sustainability.  Although the project is generally affordable,
the ability of governments to provide continual and regular financial
support to sustain growth in the sector is an issue that needs further
attention. So far, due to the lack of planning and funding (paras. 1.19-
1.20), development of the sector has been sporadic. Regular investment in
the sector by various levels of government has been insignificant and
supply-driven. Special initiatives prompted by disasters (such as the
cholera epidemic in Xinjiang) and outside interventions (such as IDA and
UNDP involvements) happen infrequently. For sustained growth, sector
financial planning would need to be strengthened. The project would assist
governments at the county level in this aspect through the development of
overall strategies and affordable long-term programs.
E. Beneficiary Affordability and Willingness to Pay
4.12      Affordabilit.  The project has been designed to serve the rural
poor. Users' affordability was the most important factor in the selection
of technology and service level. Typical costs and affordability analysis
are summarized in Annex 19.  Derivation of these costs are contained in the
project proposals in the Project File. On the whole, affordability when



* 31 -
considered in connection with willingness to pay is not expected to be a
problem. On an exceptional basis, it was noted that community funds would
be used to assist the extreme poor.
4.13      Willingnesg to PA .  Water supply users are generally willing to
pay for services. During the 1980s, 90 percent of all capital expenditures
were paid by users comprising rural enterprises, communities and
individuals. In addition, water charges to cover at least the full cost of
operation is expected and generally accepted (paras. 1.17 and 4.1-4.2).
When water is scarce or is of noticeably low quality, villagers'
willingness to pay can easily be demonstrated through: (a) their eagerness
to contribute to construction in cash and in kind; and (b) their commitment
to pay the full cost of operations and service debts. However, little
quantifiable data is available to shed light on less obvious cases. It is
not clear whether the very poor are willing to pay the full cost of up-to-
standard water when alternative sources, usually of inferior quality are
readily available free of charge. Two studies of affordability and
willingness to pay are being planned: a small scale one with a focus on
reliabilitv and women in development aspects along with the preparation of
the Project Completion Report for RWS, and one under the UNDP/WB capacity
building project (para. 2.12) in selected RWSS project areas. Further
studies would be included in RWSS as necessary.
F. Accounts and Audit
4.14      Sub-Project Accounting.  A system for flow of funds and
accounting for project expenditures during construction has been developed
during preparation of RWS and refined during preparation of RWSS. The
system provides for: (a) the accounting of local expenditures at the
community level and consolidation at county, provincial and national
levels; (b) the flow of funds from IDA, provinces, prefectures (where
applicable) and communities; and (c) the allocation of goods and
expenditures for ICB and LCB items to the respective local level offices
and communities. The RWS system to record revenues, expenditures, assets
and liabilities of waterworks after they become operational would also be
followed.
4.15      Project Accounts.  Basic project accounts showing expenditures
by project component during implementation would be maintained in the CPOs.
A provincial project account consolidating county accounts, provincial
component expenditures and the province's share of expenditures incurred or
administered by the NPO would be maintained at each of the six PPOs. In
addition, each PPO would also maintain its Revolving Account with proper
documentation of expenditures. A total project account aggregating all
provincial accounts would be maintained by the NPO. The NPO would also be
required to keep records and maintain an account for all project funds
administered or used by the office. MOF would maintain accounts showing
amounts expended under SOEs for each year and would maintain the Special
Account.



- 32 -
4.16      Audit. Expenditures of the communities would be consolidated by
the CPOs and audited by the county audit offices. The provincial accounts
would be subject to audit by the provincial audit bureaus. It was agreed
that a comprehensive audit report covering: (a) the consolidated account of
project expenditures prepared by the NPO; (b) SOEs and Special Accounts
maintained by MOF; and (c) the provincial Revolving Accounts maintained by
the PPOs would be prepared annually by the State Audit Administration
(SMA). During negottations. assurances were obtained that the annual
oMgXQihensive audit reports prenared by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA would be submitted to the Association within six months after the end
of each fiscal vear. Content and format of audit reports were discussed
and agreed during negotiations. It was understood that for purposes of IDA
review of provincial level audits, copies should be made available by the
National Project Office (NPO) in Beijing for supervision missions.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
5.1       The project would benefit about nine million persons in 75 rural
counties. It is expected to alleviate human suffering associated with
poverty and ill health. It is also expected to bring about better quality
of life through growth and improved physical as well as institutional
environment.
A. Poverty Focus and Impact
5.2       The project has been designed to benefit the poorest and most
needy rural population of China to the extent practicable.
5.3       Selection of Location.  Poverty is commonly associated with
diseases. In China, life is particularly harsh in remote and mountainous
regions and for minorities where development has generally lagged behind
that of the rest of the country. In order to target investments to
maximize project impact on the poor, all the above factors have been taken
into consideration in the selection of project counties (para. 2.3).
5.4       Selection of Technologies.  In order to encourage and enable
poor local governments as well as communities to participate and therefore
benefit from the project, only basic water supply and sanitation services
would be financed under RWSS. For water supply, low-cost technologies such
as deep-well handpumps and cisterns would be adopted where appropriate.
Where piped systems are considered more cost effective, use of public
stand-post is being encouraged.
5.5       Impact.  Through improved access to basic levels of water
supply, time and energy saved on water collection would be spent on child
and elderly care and productive activities. By bringing about improved
sanitation services and hygienic practices, the project is expected to have
substantial health benefits in disease reduction. It would reduce
morbidity which is costly both in terms of productive time loss and medical



33 -
expenses. During construction and operation phases, the project would
provide training and income-earning (or cost-saving through contribution in
kind) opportunities for women and men. Experience gained would '.,so
enhance the ability of participant communities to compete for jobs of
similar nature in their neighboring localities, thus putting the poor's
most abundant asset, their labor, into most effective use.
B. Health Impact
5.6       Water supply and sanitation improvement projects are commonly
justified on the basis of improvements in health resulting from an expected
reduction in the incidence of diarrheal diseases and other water related
diseases. Until recently, evidence of this relationship has proven elusive
to substantiate. A recent rigorous study of the impact on diarrheal
diseases of a water, sanitation and hygiene education project in Bangladesh
showed a reduction in the incidence, severity and persistence of diarrheal
diseases, in all age groups, ard in each season of the year, as a result of
each of the three interventions. Even more recently, a study reviewing
some 144 projects around the world clearly illustrated the impact of water
supply and sanitation improvements on six of the most prevalent water
related diseases (diarrheal diseases, guinea worm, hook worm, trachoma,
schistosomiasis, and ascariasis). Furthermore, the report concluded that
the most effective intervention was the provision of a sanitary latrine,
arid of next greatest importance was making more water available and more
accessible so that people are better able to keep themselves and their home
environments clean. Supply of water of improved quality is also, of
course, important for prevention of disease transmission which results from
drinking contaminated water. Available evidence from project provinces
suggests however that poor hygiene and disease transmission by flies and
other insect vectors, are of greater importance. The health and hygiene
education component will focus on conveying these messages. There is
increasing evidence that the incidence of water related diseases among
farmers who collect and apply human wastes to their crops is higher that
for the rural population as a whole. Because the use of nightsoil in
agriculture is so widespread, it is essential that these practices are
improved and made more hygienic. The most effective solution is to
construct latrines which store wastes until they are no longer a hazard to
health. A study is to be carried out of nightsoil practices, and of the
attitudes of farmers to changes in nightsoil use and to improved types of
latrines.
C. Environmental Impact
5.7       The project would have a positive impact on the environment
through improved practices for the disposal of human wastes, construction
of enclosures for animals, collection and compost of manure (particularly
pig wastes), drainage improvements, and monitoring of water quality.
5.8       Increased wastewater quantities as a result of improved water
supply could have a negative impact on the environment of the community.
However, the quantities of water to be delivered from yard taps, stand-



- 34 .
posts and harndpumps would generally be too small to generate sufficient
quantity of wastewater to pose environmental problems. Drainage
improvements would be constructed wherever wastewater quantities pose
problems.
5.9       The most often cited environmental risk with on-site sanitation
facilities is the contamination of groundwater. This risk is considered
minimal as NPHCCO does not currently permit latrines designed to leach
liquid to the soil. (In rural areas, wastes are removed and used in
agriculture). Additional safety fa%tors are the low density of housing
(and hence waste quantities) in many project areas, the use of deep-well
handpumps which do not draw from shallow groundwater, and the effectiveness
of soil percolation to render harmless the small quantities of wastewater
which may find its way into the ground. Existing shallow wells would be
protected where necessary by construction of improved aprons and by removal
of any source of contamination (e.g. drainage channels, manure piles,
latrines) within close proximity to the well.
5.10      Use of improperly protected water sources could also be harmful
to the community. Design criteria for water source development would
ensure that adequate protection measures are taken. In addition, water
quality would be monitored to ensure compliance with established water
quality standaxds.
5.11      The provision of a safe and reliable water supply, improved
environmental sa..itation facilities, and intensive health and hygiene
education programs is expected to result in a substantial improvement in
awareness of environmental quality. The initial focus on "model" villages
is also expected to result in a degree of competition in promoting improved
environmental quality. Environmental units of the local governments would
be involved in the preparation, screening and implementation of the
project. Sub-projects would be too numerous to be the subject of separate
environmental assessments. Instead, they would be sereened against an
agreed checklist to be drawn up at design stage to ensure environmental
concerns are adequately addressed.
D. Impact on Women
5.12      Although no statistics are available to demonstrate that village
women in China are the main carriers of water, they would be the leading
beneficiaries of the project as women are usually the main users of water,
aiid to a large extent are responsible for hygiene practices within the
family. The project would focus on onhancing women's awareness for
hygiene, sanitation and safe water practices.
5.13      During project preparation, the subject of women in development
did not draw much attention nor result in substantive discussions. As a
starting point for IDA to better understand gender issues in project
related matters, the affordability and willingness survey to be conducted
in connection with RWS would be designed to also cover women in development
issues (para. 4.13). In addition, gender disaggregated data on staffing



- 35 -
and training would also be collected during monitoring of the proposed
project. This will be part of the reporting requirements described in
paras. 3.40 and 3.41.
E. Institutional Development
5.14      The proposed project would enhance community participation and
bring together various government departments concerned in the sector to
work towards a common goal in a coordinated fashion. RWSS would provide
for: management capacity building at the national, provincial, prefecture
and county levels; preparation and dissemination of various technical
manuals and guidelines throughout the country; development of workable
long-term investment strategies and plans at the county and provincial
levels; and technical assistance and training. All these would enhance the
effectiveness and sustainability of growth and progress in the sector.
F. Xiskg
5.15      Shortage of qualified personnel in project management and
implementation might hamper progress. The country's policies on self-
reliance and cost recovery concerns might block poor communities from
participating and limit investment in the sanitation and health education
components. The project addresses these risks by: (a) strengthening
management and provision of technical assistance and training fcr all
implementing agencies; (b) production and dissemination of "user-friendly"
manuals; (c) establishment of review criteria for sub-project selection;
(d) promoting community participation including women, and commitment from
the start and through every stage of sub-project planning and
implementation; and (e) development of long-term strategies and sustainable
investment programs for sanitation and health/hygiene education.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements_Reached
6.1       During negotiations, assurances were obtained from China that:
(a) the National Project Office would be maintained with qualified
staff in adequate numbers (para. 3.4);
(b) comprehensive project implementation programs for the following
year would be prepared and submitted to IDA for review and
approval no later than October 15 of each year (para. 3.18);
(c) review and approval of sub-projects by NPO would follow
established criteria and procedures (para. 3.19);



- 36 -
(d) provincial Revolving Accounts would be opened and maintained
with an allocation to cover about three months of local cost
expenditures (para. 3.39); and
(e) project cost accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and audit reports would be submitted
to the Association within six months after the ehd of each
financial year (para. 4.16).
6.2       During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
provincial governments on the following:
(a) proceeds of the IDA credit would be onlent from the provinces to
the sub-project entities through project counties at fixed
interest of four percent per annum for 20 years including up to
five years grace and foreign exchange risk would be borne by the
provinces (paras. 2.8-2.9);
(b) the various project offices would be maintained with qualified
staff in adequate numbers (para. 3.4);
(c) provincial project implementation programs for the following
year would be prepared and submitted to the NPO for review and
approval no later than September 1 of each year (para. 3.18);
(d) planning and design of sub-projects would be done in accordance
with the criteria contained in the planning and design manuals
and the criteria and procedures for review and approval of sub-
projects would be followed (para. 3.19); and
(e) water charges for all sub-projects would cover operations and
maintenance costs plus the pro-rated portion of the amount to be
repaid by the province to the borrower not covered by government
subsidies, and O&M costs and depreciation after the debt has
been amortized (para. 4.7).
B. Understandings Reached
6.3       Understandings were reached on the following and recorded in the
minutes of negotiations:
(a) timetable for finalization and submission of national,
provincial and county proposals (para. 3.8);
(b) an implementation plan covering the period from project
effectiveness to December 31, 1992 would be prepared and
submitted to IDA by April 15, 1992 (para. 3.18);



- 37 -
(c) content and format of semi-annual progress reports and timing
for their submission to the Association (paras. 3.40-3.41); and
(d) content and format of annual audit reports (para. 4.16).
C. Condition of Credit Disbursement
6.4       Satisfactory publication and distribution of design manuals for
low-cost iiral water supply technologies and rural sanitation facilities
would be a condition of credit disbursement for civil works (para. 3.9).
D. Recommendation
6.5       On the basis of the project justification and with the above
assurances and understandings, the proposed Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation project would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 78.9 million
(US$110.0 million equivalent) on standard terms with 35 years maturity to
the People's Republic of China.



- 38 -
ANEX1
Page 1 of 5
CHI
RUML WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
The Project Areas
1.        The proposed project will cover 75 counties in six provinces.
General features of the project provinces are as follows:
I.  GuaNi Zhuang Autonomous Rgion
2.        The Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region (Guangxi) is located in the
south west of China. It borders with the provinces of Guangdong, Hunan,
Guizhou and Yunnan, and Vietnam in the south west. Total area amounts to
about 0.24 million square kilometers. The topography of Guangxi is higher
at the northwest and lower at the southeast, with flat plain along the
coast. Mountains and hilly land make up about 85% of the total land area.
The remaining 15% is plains.
3.        Guangxi is in the sub-tropical region where its weather ;.ittern
is influenced by monsoons. It enjoys relatively warm temperature and
abundant rainfall. Temperature ranges from below freezing to around 40C at
the extremes. Annual precipitation ranges from 1,100 mm to 2,800 mm. Due
to geographical and topographical conditions, rainfall does not distribute
evenly across the region. On the average, rainfall during July and August
makes up about 60% of the annual total. The monsoon season starts in April
and ends in October. Due to this uneven distribution of rainfall, draught
and flood occur often.
4.        At the end of 1989, Guangxi had under its jurisdiction 14
prefectural level administrations: 5 provincial administered cities (with 8
counties under them), 1 port district, and 8 prefectures (with 75 counties
or county level cities under them). Under the county level, there were
1,356 townships made up of about 14,760 administrative villages which in
turn were made up of about 69,500 natural villages. Total population in
1989 was about 41.5 million, of which about 34.4 million (or 83%) was
rural. There was a total of about 7.3 million households, average family
size was 5.0 persons. Average provincial rural income for 1989 was RMB
Y483 per capita, average income of project counties ranged from RMB Y236 to
Y507.
5.        Guangxi is one of five ethnic minority autonomous regions in
China. It is also one with the largest ethnic minority population. There
are about 11 minority nationalities, among them Zhuang, Yao, Miao, Tong,
Yilao, Maonan, Jing, Shui, Yi and Hui. Total minority population is about
16.2 million or 39% of total population. There are 12 ethnic minority
autonomous counties. Among the 9 project counties, 5 of them have more
than 66% of ethnic minorities.



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
II. Yunnan Province
6.        Yunnan Province is at the southwest border of China and is a
moutntainous province. The mountains and hilly land make up about 94% of
total land area with basin and delta making up the balance. The topography
is higher at the northwest, and lower at the southeast. The highest point
in Yunnan is the Meili Snow Mountain at about 6,740 meters above sea level.
7.        The province is located at low altitude, it is topographically
complicated and exhibits many different types of weather conditions.
Temperature ranges from 6C to 22C, with great variation during the day and
relatively little variation throughout the year. Yunnan has plenty of
precipitation but it is unevenly distributed. Still, most areas have over
1,000 mm rainfall each year.
8.        At the end of 1989, Yunnan had under its jurisdiction 17
prefectural level administrations, with 127 counties under them. Total
population was about 36.5 million, of which 32.0 million (or 88%) were
rural. Average provincial rural income for 1989 was RMB Y460 per capita,
average income of project counties ranged from RMB Y162 to Y431.
9.        There are 46 etnnic minority nationalities in Yunnan, making up
about 33% of the total population. Among minority them, Yi has the largest
number amounting to about one third of the total minority population. Most
of them live in the Chuxiong and the Red River prefectures. The second
largest minority is Bai, and they are concentrated in the Dali prefecture.
III. Hunan Province
10.       Hunan Province borders with the provinces of Jiangxi to the
east, Guangxi and Guangdong to the south, Sichuan and Guizhou to the west,
and Hubei to the north. Total area amounts to 0.21 million square
kilometers. Mountains and hilly lands make up more than 80% of total land
areas.
11.       The province is in the sub-tropical region where its humid
weather is mainly the result of seasonal monsoons. Temperature ranges from
freezing to over 40C. Annual rainfall ranges from 1,250 mm to 1,750 mm.
About 40% of precipitation occurs between April and June. Droughts in the
fall are common.
12.       At the end of 1989, Hunan has under its jurisdiction 14
prefectural level administrations: 8 provincial administered cities, the
Tujai and Miao Minority autonomous region, and 5 prefectures with a total
of 125 counties or county level cities below them. Under the counties,
there were 3,488 townships made up of about 47,400 administrative villages.
Total population was about 60.7 million of which about 51.0 million (or
84%) was rural. Total population of the province ranks seventh in the
nation.   Average provincial rural income for 1989 was RMB Y547 per capita,
average income of project counties ranged from RMB Y199 to Y779.



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
13.       There are over 50 ethnic minority nationalities in Hunan.  Total
minority population is about 4.8 million or about 8% of the total
population. There are 17 minority autonomous counties (cities) in Hunan,
most of them are in the mountainous regions in the south and west.
VI. Gansu Province
14.       Gansu Province is located at the mid-west of China.  It borders
with the provinces of Shaanxi to the east, Sichuan to the south, Qinghai
and Xingjiang to the west and Ningxia, Inner Mongolia and the People's
Republic of Mongolia to the north. Total area amounts to 0.45 million
square kilometers.
15.       The inland province is in the middle latitude regions.  Its
temperature is subject to large daily and seasonal fluctuations and the
area is arid. Temperature ranges from -12C to 25C. Annual precipitation
ranges from 30 mm to 860 mm and is obviously unevenly distributed. The
amount of precipitation decreases from southeast to northwest. Rainfall
during the summer (June to August) accounts for about 60% of the annual
total. Precipitation in the winter months is rare. On the other hand, due
to the dryness of the air, evaporation is significant. Annual rate ranges
from 1,100 mm to over 3,000 mm, increasing from southeast to northwest.
16.       At the end of 1989, Gansu had under its jurisdiction 14
prefectural level administrations with 86 counties and county level cities
under them. Under the counties, there were 1,539 townships made up of
about 17,540 administrative villages which were in turn made up of about
122,670 natural villages. Total population in 1989 was about 21.7 million
of which about 18.3 million (or 84%) was rural. Average provincial rural
income for 1989 was RMB Y376 per capita, average income of project counties
ranged from RMB Y266 to Y477.
17.       There are many ethnic minority nationalities in Gansu, among
them Hui, Tibetans, Dongxiang, Yugu, Man, Baoan, Mongolia, Hasha and Hasak.
Total minority population is about 1.9 million or about 9% of the total
population. They are concentrated in six ethnic minority autonomous
counties.
V.  Nei Monggol (Inner Mongolia) Autonomous Region
18.       The Nei Monggol Autonomous Region (Neimong) is located in the
south-east of the Mongolia Plateau in the north of China. The region spans
3,400 km east-west and 1,700 km north-south. It borders with Heilongjiang,
Jilin, and Liaoning Provinces to the east, Hebei, Shanxi and Shaanxi to the
south, Gansu and Ningxia to the west, and the Soviet Union and Mongolia to
the north. Total land area amounts to 1.18 million square kilometers,
including 4.9 million hectares of cultivated land and 86.7 million hectares
of grassland, ranking the largest in the country. More than half of land
area are over 1,000 meters above sea level.



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
19.       Most areas of Neimong which are in the mid-latitude region,
suffer from very little and unevenly distributed rainfall, and great
temperature fluctuations between winter and summer. Temperature ranges
from -30C to 27C. Due to topographical differences, annual precipitation
ranges from about 500 mm in the east to only about 50 mm in the west. The
amount of evaporation increases from 1,000 mm in the east to 3,000 mm to
the west. Draughts are common. Sunlight is abundant and amounts to an
average of 3,400 hours per year. In most areas, frost free period ranges
from 80 to 150 days per year. Winters are very long and harsh; summers are
often short and mild, with high concentration of rainfall.
20.       The Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region was established on May 1,
1947. At the end of 1989, Neimong had under its jurisdiction 12
prefectural level administrations: 4 provincial administered cities and 8
leagues with a total of 100 counties, banners and county level cities under
them. Total population in 1989 was about 20.9 million of which 14.0
million (or 67%) was rural. Average provincial rural income for 1989 was
RMB Y500 per capita, average income of project-counties ranged from RMB
Y240 to Y700.
21.       The region is also made up of many ethnic minority nationalities
such as Mongolian, Hui, Man, Dekar, Korea, Erwenke and Erkuenlong.
Mongolian, the largest minority group accounts for about 3.1 million or
about 15% of the total population.
VI. Xiniiang Uygur Autonomous Region
22.       The Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region (Xinjiang) is located in
the northwest of China. There are three mountain ranges in the region:
Altay to the north, Kunlun to the south, and Tianmi running east-west in
the middle dividing Xinjiang into southern and northern regions. It
borders with the Soviet Union, Mongolia, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and India,
and is an important passage between Asia and Europe. Total land area is
about 1.7 million square kilometers, about one sixth of the total national
territory.
23.       The inland region is far away from oceans.  Its climate is, as a
result, typical continental. As with Gansu, the region has very little
precipitation but evaporation is considerable. Daily and seasonal
temperature differences are vast. Temperature ranges from -40C to 40C in
extreme cases. Average annual rainfall is about 145 mm while evaporation
is often more than 2,000 mm.
24.       At the end of 1989, Xinjiang had under its jurisdiction 14
prefectural level administrations: 8 provincial administered cities, one
autonomous region and 5 prefectures with a total of 86 counties and county
level cities under them. The Agricultural Reclamation Company (comprising
mainly of state farms) is an enterprise under the direct supervision of the
Hinistry of Agriculture. In Xinjiang, the Company is under the dual
leadership of the Ministry and the Xinjiang government. At the end of
1989, there were 13 agricultural branches, and an industry and construction



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
branch under this general company. The 172 state farms under these
branches were scattered in 57 counties/cities of the region. Total
population of Xinjiang in 1989 was 14.5 million of which 10.5 million (or
73%) was rural. Average provincial rural income for 1989 was RMB Y496 per
capita, average income of project counties ranged from RMB Y305 to Y748.
25.       Xinjiang, as an autonomous region is made up of many ethnic
minority nationalities. The Uygurs, the dominate ethnic group, make up
about 47% of the total population. They are mainly concentrated in 5
prefectures around the Turfan Basin, Yili and Urumqi areas. Other ethnic
minority nationalities include Hasak, Hui, Kurk, Mongolian, Russian and
many others. The Hans, majority in other provinces of China, comprise
about 38% of the total population of Xinjiang.



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
CHINA^
RURAL WATERS SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
List of Proiect Provinces, Prefectures and Counties
Proving      Proeecture      County               Province     Prefecture         County
Guangxl      Nanning         Fusul                Gansu        Dlngxl             Lintao
Longan                                               Tongwel
Lluzhou         Lalbin                            Balyin             Huining
Bose            Pingguo                                              Jingyuan
Qinzhou         Qinzhou                          Pingliang           Pingilang-
Guilin          Yangshuo                         Oingyang            Zhenyuan
Wuzhou          Canxl                            Zhangye             Minil
Yulln           Guigang                         TManshul             Beidao
Hechl           Duan                                                 Oincheng
(8)             (9)                               Longnan            Huixian
Wuwei              Wuwel
Yunnan       Qujlng          Oujing                            Linxla             Linxia
Zhaotong        Qlaojla                          Gannan              Xiahe
Baoshan         Baoshan                          Lanzhou             Yongdeng
Llncang         Yvnxlan                          (11)                (14)
Honghe (Gejiu)  Mlile
Dall (Xlaguan)   Weishan             Nelmong     Zhellrn (Tongiiao)   Tongliao
Chuxiong        Chuxiong                                             Nalman
(7)             (7)                               Hulunbir (Hallar)    Arun
Chifeng            Linxi
Hunan       Zhuzhou          Chaling                           Ekzao (Dongsheng)  Datad
Hengyang        Hengdong                                             EJln Horo
Hengshan                         Hohhot             Tumd Zuo
Shaoyang        Chengbu                                              Togt (Togtoh)
Yueyang         Yueyang                                              Hohhot Suburb
Huarong                          (8)                 (9)
Changde         Linil
Anxiang             Xlnjlang     Hotan               Moyu
Yiyang          Nanxian              Region                          Hotan
Loudi           Xlnhua                           Kashl               Shule
Chenzhou        Jlahe                                                Shache
Chenxian                         Kezolesu (Artux)    Akto
Lingling        Jlanghua                         Aksu                Kuqa
Jlangyong                        Bugur (Korla)       Luntal
Hualhua         Chenxl                           Turfan              Toksun
Olanyang                         Bortala             Jingho
Xiangxl (Jlshou) Yongshun                         Altay              Altay
Fenghuang                        (8)                 (10)
Dayong          Sangzhl
(12)            (19)                 Xlnjlang     Aksu               Aksu
State       Kashi               Kashgar (Kashi)
Farms       Bole                Bole
WuJlaqu (ChangjI)   Wujlaqu
Kuytun             Kuytun
Shihezi            Shlhezi
Altay              Beltun
(7)                (7)



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 6
CHlNA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
The Water Supply Component
Existing Situation
1.        The water supply situation in the project area display diverse
features due primarily to climatic and hydrogeological differences
prevailing in the provinces. The northern provinces of Xinjiang, Inner
Mongolia and Gansu are generally dry and barren with distinct water
shortages and often poor quality supplies. The southern provinces of
Guangxi, Yunnan and Hunan, however, exhibit milder climate with increased
rainfall and generally available water resources. Some of the poor and
remote communities in the southern provinces also suffer from lack of
easily accessible water supplies. Existing coverage levels are also
indicative of the extent of rural population's access to safe water supply
averaging about 27% in the project counties. The coverage levels range
from il% in Inner Mongolia to 37% in Guangxi resulting in an
unserved/underserved rural population of about 20 million in the 75 project
counties. Total rural population in the project areas amount to about 27
million. Table 1 gives the existing and proposed coverage levels in the
project counties.
Coverage Levels
2.        The proposed project will serve an additional population of
about 9 million in the project area thus bringing the total population
served with safe water supply from an existing coverage level of 7.4
million to about 16.4 million corresponding to 60% of the total population
in the project counties. It is to be noted that the service previded will
be based predominantly on community water supply systems. Consequently,
about 96% ot the piped-water service will be through public standposts
which is in contrast to the Rural Water Supply Project where the majority
of the piped systems had house connections. Aiming for a higher coverage
in the project areas, the standposts offer an appropriate and economic
solution to village water supply needs as compared to individual house
connections. In view of the prevailing conditions and localities, 26% of
the targeted population in Inner Mongolia would be served through house
connections.
Piped Water SuIvly Systems
3.        Among the service levels proposed, the piped systems constitute
the largest proportion of water supply systems making up about 90% of the
total component cost. About 7.8 million additional rural population is
planned to be served by piped systems leaving about 1.2 million to be
served through point sources. A total of about 2800 piped systems will be



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
constructed of which about 1450 are proposed through motor-driven deep
wells, 950 spring sources and 400 from surface waters. In the preparation
of the provincial proposals, spring development and well construction were
given higher priority over surface water development mainly because of the
higher costs involved in the treatment processes for surface water
supplies. Among sources of piped-water systems, spring water sources are
usually of good quality and no treatment is necessary. Although the
construction costs per person are somewhat higher for the piped-water
surface, certain advantages were considered in terms of reliability,
quality/quantity, convenience, and operation and maintenance. In a number
of spring water supply schemes where high source yields are available,
regional (multi-village and even cross-country) systems have been adopted
to feasibly serve larger populations through a reliable single source by
increasing efficiency and economy of scale.
Point Water Sources
4.        The proposed project contains also alternative low-cost water
supply technologies (point sources) such as shallow and deep wells with
handpumps providing affordable solutions to the poor communities. The deep
well handpump which could draw drinking water from depths up to 50-60
meters is, indeed, an appropriate technology serving about 30 families from
a single handpump. This type of handpump is manufactured in China (Type
XI-II) based on the successful model, India Mark II. A total of about 4400
deep well handpumps are proposed to be constructed. Xinjiang and Inner
Mongolia provinces have had considerable experience through the UNDP/World
Bank Project CPR/88/011 (Low-Cost Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Project), and the total of handpumps proposed by these two provinces
amounts to about 80% of the total number proposed. It is, therefore,
presumed that the introduction of this type of alternative technology in
the other provinces will serve the purpose of replicability aiming for a
larger coverage in the rural populations. Regarding the type of the
shallow well handpump drawing water from 7 to 10 meter depths, it was
agreed to use self-priming type to prevent contamination of the well.
Alternatively, the XI-II deepwell handpump can also be used with a cylinder
setting of about 12 meters. A total of about 15,000 shallow wells with
handpumps are proposed mostly in Gansu and Guangxi Provinces.
5.        About 53,000 rainwater collectors are proposed to be constructed
under the proposed project. Planned to meet the water supply demand of
rural communities in specific areas of Yunnan and Gansu Provinces where
surface and groundwaters are not available, the rainwater collectors or
cisterns offer the only alternative solution in providing drinking water.
It was agreed to improve the design of the collectors and provide sanitary
protection against contamination. Table 2 gives the breakdown and details
of the piped and non-piped systems by provinces.
Planning and Design Criteria
6.        The piped water supply systems proposed in the project have been
selected as the least cost solutions. The criteria used in the design of



- 46 -
Page 3 of 6
the piped systems are based on the Rural Water Supply Manual prepared in
1984 by NPHCC for the First Rural Water Supply Project. Accordingly, per
capita water consumption is assumed to range between 40 and 70 liters per
day depending on the sufficiency of the water sources and the climatic
conditions. For animals and other use, a constuption allowance of 10
liters is used. For point sources 30 to 40 liters per capita per day are
considered adequate. A design period of 15 years is selected and the
annual population growth is taken as 1.2%. A daily peak factor of 1.5 is
used and the maximum hourly demand is taken to vary fxom 2.5 to 4.0. A
supplemental manual for rural water supply and sanitation covering the
planning and design of non-piped water systems is also prepared in
September 1991.
System Unit Costs
7.        A comparative review of the base costs has revealed that per
capita investment cost for piped systems averaged about RMB Y75. According
to NPHCC standards and Bank experience elsewhere, this level of investment
is considered comparable to low-cost water supply systems. Unit costs of
the shallow and deep well handpump installations, however, varied between
the provinces and even among the counties. For deep well handpump systems,
per capita costs varied from about RMB Y20 in Inner Mongolia to RMB Y70 in
Guangxi. Although differences in unit costs can be expected due to varying
well depths and drilling geological formations, it was agree with GOC to
reconcile the inconsistencies.
Water Quality Issues
8.        Bacteriological contamination of unprotected water sources with
faecal matters causing water-borne and excreta related infections is common
through the project area. For point sources, sanitary protection of the
facilities and the education of the communities will maintain the quality
of the low-cost water sources. On the other hand, presence of fluoride
compounds in drinking water from groundwater sources poses a major problem
causing endemic fluorosis (discoloring of the teeth and in severe cases
skeletal deformities). A majority of the project counties in Gansu, XUAR
and IMAR has been effected and proposals contained solutions to partly
alleviate the problem. Treatment to remove such undesirable dissolved
organic matter in water is difficult, requires high costs and operation and
maintenance at the village level may not be possible. The proposals,
therefore, contains solutions attaching priorities to finding other
sources. Consequently, in most cases the achievement will be through
development of other water sources with acceptable level of fluorides.
Data on areas and population effected by water sources with high fluoride
content was not available at the time of appraisal to make a true
assessment of the situation. In Neimong, for example, 650,000 rural people
suffer from drinking water with high fluorides (up to 6-8 mg per liter, and
national standard and WHO guideline limit the acceptable level 1.5 mg) in
all project counties and only 45% coverage is proposed.



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
Water Oualitv Surveillance and Monitoring
9. .      The proposed program for drinking water quality surveillance and
monitoring is directed towards strengthening the capability of the
provincial and county governments and is considered adequate. Monitoring
of the point sources may not be feasible nor economic, however, control of
the drinking water quality from point sources requires other interventions
in addition to supply of laboratory equipment and related training in
sampling and analysis. Provision of sanitary protection of the facilities
is equally important in maintaining the water quality.



Table 1: Water Supply Service Coverage
Population
Total Number  Total Rural   Project  in Project  Exsting Coverage   Additional Population Total Population
Province      of Counties   Population   Counties  Counties   In Project Countias  Served by PWSS    to bn Served
(m;llion)           (million)    (million)   (%)     (million) (%)    (million)  (%)
Guangxi            83           36.4       9        5.41         1.81    34         2.00    41       3.81     78
Yunnan             86          32.0        7        3.09         0.94    30         1.27    41       2.21     72
Hunan             125          51.0       19        8.65         2.48    29        2.20    25        4.69     54                  O
Gansu              86           18.3      14        4.98         0.64    13         1.35    28       1.99     40
Neimong           100           14.0       9        2.37         0.27    11         1.00    42       1.27     54
Xinjiang           86           10.5      17        3.53         1.24    35        1.25    35        2.49     71
Total           566         162.2       75       28.03         7.38    26        9.07    33       16.46    60
0



Table 2:   Water Supply Program
Guangl                    Yunnan                   Hunan                    Gansu                  Nelmong                    injlang                TOTAL
-    t J!   P ot c  t                             !  fP                                 P c_       2  po  c.    '  po *                                    POP  c
co"    (Vnh)              C'O0)  (Ifff'*)    f     OW0)  (y no)            CM000)  (Y'Nn)         0coo)  tYmin)            Cow)  cYn4n)              C00    (yn4n)
A. First Year Proaram
(1) 3-
S.d             -      _        -         1    5.6       o.s      _      _        -        _      _        _       _       _        _       _      _        _        1    5.5       0.5
th  -    -         -      -        -      -      -         -        -      -        -       2    2.2       0.2      -      -         -       2    2.2       0.2
W   -  -        -         -      -         -     -       -        -        -      -        -      14   33.3       2.7       -      -        -       14   33.3       2.7
(b) ~
Jw ta            6   41.1       2.         3   31.6       3.2    17   90.3        5.1       3   50.5       4.0      -       -        -      20    7.7      0.8       48  221.1      16.0
Spdne                 3.S6      2.         s 1 D.0        7.6    13   461    2.5            6   24.0       1.7      -       -        -       1    7.0      0.5       35  217.6      14.9
WA              t17  127.2      tJ.        2    7.7       0.6    1s  107.0        7.s      22   86.3       6.1     14   23.6        1.7     20   64.4      6.6        3  410.1      30.9
9ubote    2a  2060          14.2       15  146.o      lzo     46  244.3      1S.4      31  163.7       11.6     30   69.1       4.6     41   79.1       7.1     193  800.1      66
SWFP          0I   3.0          0.1        -                                       -       61    0.3       0.1      -       -        -    237    1.3       0.1      396    4.6       0.3
r^W"P           72    17        1.1       32    5.7       0.2    30    7.6        0.4       5    1.1       0.1    136   26.6       0.6    368   54.9       3.3      632 11Z56        5.
Chiemo.          -      -        -      3.170   15.S      1.2      -      -        -    2.007    15.0      1.0      -       -        -       -      -        -    6,167   30.9       22
sublow     17ir    *7       1.2                        IA02   s   4    30    7.5  0.4   3.063   16.4    1.2    135   26.6       0.6     Ns   562        3.4    7,197  147.9      8.A
TOrAL     200  2266        1.4    3.217   167.6      13.4    78  251.e6    16.    3.04   160.1    13.0    165    5.7           .4    636  136.3       10.5   7.3  1,047.1       74.5
B. Total Prolect
(1) -
() t Connmeban
Swim             -      -         -        1    6.        0.6      -      -        -        -    -          -       -       -        -       -      -        -        1    6.9       0.5
Spg              -      -        -          I     .7      0.6      -      -        -        -    -           -      10   14.9      0.8       -      -        -       I1   20.6       1.3
WI               -      -         -        1    5.8       0.3      -      -        -        -    -           -     1e5  3082      23.8       -      -        -      166  314.0      24.1
(b) Sfndi
Surf            as  56"4.0     40.0       62  437.0      45.5   157  746.5       60.4      23  354.7      27.8      -       -        -      63  126.6      13.1     403 2.2s0.7    177.7
spdne           4   5612.      36.3      486  50.4       402    229  547.5       29.5     135  211.1      14.6      -       -        -       3   10.5       0.8     937 1,621.0    120.6
Val           I26  7537        61.5       61  100.1      10.5   101  666.0       62.0     212  56Z4       36.3    457  554        41.6    16O  555.0       60.1   1306 3,415.5    254.0
SubIetA    417 1,se2       127.7      e02 1.0.        07.5   577 2n1az0     142.8      370 1,11.2     60.0    632  006.6       66.2    226  64.9    64.0   2,24 7,C37.7    579.1
swIP         3.006   294        0.6        -       -        -      -      -        -   10.67   67.6        3.6      -       -        -   1.170    6.8       02   14,542  123.8       4.6
DV"P          4a1   1056.       7.0       62   1Z3        0.5   140   37.3        20      150   28.9       1.1   180   326.4       8.7   1.006  297.4      17.8   4,554  608.1      37.1
Cai6rno          -      -         -    32.22   161.1      lz1      -      -        -   21.043   11Z2       7.2      -       -        -      10    4.7       0.7   3.279  276.0      20.5
EI.ctlopww       -      -        -         -       -        -      -      -        -        -      -         -     33   19.8       0.8       -      -        -       33   19.8       0.6     go
SublotWl    3    1362       7.8    32.2u   173.4      13.1   149   37.3       2.0  31.660  z22.7       11.9    10  3422    9ss   306  306.             18.7   72.708 12.         63.0       x
TOTAL    t93 1,065.4      135.6    3M  1267.3    110.6   72  2z .3    144.8  3z~230 134.              92.8   2471 1254.7      75.7   332 1,3.         82.7   76,s32 9,057.     642.1     o
Koat: Figurne may not lotW Oxa   due to oundhig                                                                                                                                                     a



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
The Sanitation Component
Rationale
1.        The sanitation and health education components have been included
in the project in recognition of their importance to complement water supply
improvements if maximum health benefits are to be realized. However, because
of limited budgets, the project will not achieve a significant impact in terms
of increased sanitation service coverage. Even in project provinces the
service coverage objectives set by the Ten-Year Plan of the NPHCC and the
Eigth Five-Year Plan of the Government are unlikely to be achieved. Service
coverage will be directly increased in project provinces by between 1 and 5%
by 1996, well short of objectives for years 1995 and 2000. It is clear that
government resources cannot possibly finance sanitation improvements on the
scale required to meet those targets. The main objectives of the sanitation
component of the project are therefore to: (a) establish programs, initially
in project counties, in each province which can continue and expand in future;
and (b) establish and demonstrate a rural sanitation strategy in each province
which can achieve the national objectives without making unrealistic demands
on government financing. Draft rural sanitation strategies were prepared in
1989 in Xinjiang and Inner Mongolia Autonomous Regions with assistance from
the UNDP financed CPR/88/011 project (text para. 1.42). These will be used as
models for similar strategies to be prepared for the other four provinces.
Separate provincial strategies are demanded by the widely varying conditions
encountered. Project CPR/91/141 Capacity Building and Investment Preparation
for Rural Water and Sanitation in Poor and Remote Areas will provide
assistance in achieving these objectives (Annex 11).
2.        One of the most important factors to be considered is the almost
universal practice of utilizing human waste (nightsoil) in agriculture as
fertilizer and soil conditioner. Preferences and practices vary considerably
but the evidence suggests that rural communities everywhere, and especially
the farmers engaged in these practices, suffer significant health consequences
as a result, particularly ascariasis (round worm) which is very widespread.
Improvements are clearly needed, as nightsoil use will undoubtedly continue,
most obviously by utilizing latrines which store wastes until they are safe to
handle. However, the acceptability of latrine types, and changes in waste
utilization practices, will depend primarily on farmer's attitudes. A
representative study is therefore to be carried out to provide a better
understanding of attitudes, practices and how to better protect the health of
farmers and their families from the diseases resulting from poor sanitation.
An outline terms of reference is provided as Annex 8.
3.        Latrine and nightsoil use practices are the main but not the only
elements of the sanitation component. The effectiveness of a sanitary latrine



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
in an unsanitary household is likely to be greatly diminished and so efforts
will be made to improve the whole environment of rural households. Animals
will be penned, their manure composted in pits, and wastewater drained away.
Changes in sanitation practices will be encouraged by intensive health and
hygiene education under a separate project component. School latrines will be
reconstructed or built to reinforce in practice the lessons taught in the
classroom, new types of household latrines will be demonstrated at schools for
use by teachers, and public latrines will be built in more densely crowded
areas where the need exists.
Component Description
4.        The sanitation component is centered on household latrine
construction but also includes public and school latrines, domestic animal
enclosures, manure composting pits, drainage ditches, biogas generators,
protection of existing water sources, and nightsoil handling equipment if
required. Because of the limited experience in China both with indigenous
latrine designs and those developed overseas, all proposed types will be
constructed during the initial two years of the project and their performance
and acceptability evaluated. All designs will be built in accordance with the
Sanitation Manual prepared by the NPHCCO, which provides typical designs for
latrines meeting established interim guidelines including control of flies,
freedom from excessive odor, non-leaching, and with specified minimum
retention times. A national standard could be prepared based on this review
to complement the standard for treatment of collected nightsoil. The agreed
first year program and outline program for the sanitation component is given
in Table 1.
Implementation
5.        Implementation will be the primary responsibility of County Project
Offices, each of which has a Sanitation Section. Provincial Project Offices
will assist and coordinate county programs. Implementation will be focussed
initially on 150 "model villages", one or more in each project county, which
have been selected for intensive promotion and a high level of sanitation
improvement so that a reasonable impact is demonstrated. The sanitation
program will then expand to the surrounding regions, the model villages
serving as examples to be followed. Funds are available only for a small
number of latrines to be constructed in other villages for training and
demonstration purposes. However, financing and cost recovery policies to be
developed are expected to result in significant levels of cost recovery and
beneficiary contributions which will enable a greater number of latrines to be
built and for the program to continue and expand with limited future
government contributions. The CPO's, which are to remain operational after
project completion, will manage the on-going sanitation programs.



Table 1:  Sanitation Program
Guangxi       Yunnan            Hunan           Gansu            Nelmong          (InJlang         TOTAL
C('0)           C000)            (000)            C000)            C000)            000)             C000)
A. First Year Proaram
1. Latrines
Schools            10    1.5         9    6.0       12    4.5       41    16.9        15    7.5        7      5.7       94    42.1
Public              7    NA          7    NA         1    NA         8      NA        10    NA        22      NA        55     NA
Household       2,519   12.5       867    4.3    2.847   11.4    2,912    14.6    1,303    6.5       773     4.0   11.221    53.3
Subtotal       2.536      -      883      -     2.860      -     2,961      -     1.328      -      802       -    11.370      -
2. Animal Enclosures   1,663   -       700      -     1.894     -      2,814      -     1,303     -        51       -     8,425      -
a Other
Garbage Dump       813      -       231     -      1.002     -         -      -         -      -        10      -     2,056       -
Drainage (m)    19.613      -     8,420     -    10,300      -         -      -         -      _         _      -    38,333       -
Not Specified        -      -         -     -         -      -         -      -       492      -         -      -       492       -
B. Total Prolect
1. Latrines
school             197   29.1      120    7.0       163   61.5      342   130.8       59   29.5       105   137.2      986   395.1
Public             80    NA         50    NA         80    NA        62     NA         70    NA       133     NA       475      NA
Household       12,201   61.0    6.859   24.1   11.667   38.0   25,604    97.1    7,892   39.4    4,588    26.4   68,811   486.0
Subtotal       t248       -     7.029     -      1.910     -    26.008      -      8.021     -     4.826      -    70,2
2. Animal Enclosures   1.663   -      1.399     -     7,749     -      6.185      -     7.892     -      1,871      -    26,759      -
3. Other                                                                                                                                         > 
Garbage Dump       813      -       259     -     4.282      -         -      -         -      -       222      -     5,576       -4
Drainage(m)     19,613      -    14,460     -    36,600      -         -      -         -      -         -      -    70,673       -
Not Specified        -      -         -     -         -      -         -      -     5,285      -         -      -     5,285       -



- 53 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 5
CHI
RUAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
The Hygiene and Health Education Component
Existing Conditions
1.        Satisfactory benefits of improved water supply and better
sanitation can only be achieved if they are supported by an adequate level
of education and training to promote an understanding of the importance of
health and hygiene. At the present time health education in rural areas is
very limited, often consisting of only the provision of some health
education textbooks to primary level students, the distribution of a
limited number of hygiene materials to herdsmen, the production of TV and
radio programs, and in rare cases the publication of bulletins and
newspapers. The health education institutions suffer from both the lack of
properly trained and experi-nced personnel and from severe shortage of
funds to design and carry out effective health education campaigns.
Similarly, most school teachers are poorly trained in hygiene and health
subjects and therefore do not have the knowledge to effectively change the
hygiene habits of children. Adults could benefit from hygiene instruction
provided by village and hospital doctors, but due to the present
compensation system, doctors are limiting their services primarily to the
provision of curative services. Community-based and participatory
approaches successfully used in many developing countries are rarely
applied to hygiene and health education in China. Minority groups
requiring information in their own languages, the poorest segments of the
rural population, and peasants in remote areas are particularly suffering
from unhealthful water and sanitation practices. In addition, the high
level of illiteracy in many rural and poor areas, prevents or severely
limits the use of conventional health education instruments, such as
textbooks, written bulletins and newspapers.
2.        Hygiene and health improvements are not only affected by the
lack of training and budgetary resources, but also by the fact that long-
term hygiene and health education strategies and programs are missing.
Activities in the provincial and district health education institutions are
often carried out on an ad hoc basis by doctors rather than by health
education specialists. To overcome this problem, Hunan Province
established in 1987 a specific program for health educators at a medical
university with about 90 students expected to graduate per year. Most
other project provinces lack such specialized training. As a consequence,
due to lack of basic hygiene and health information, preventable water
contamination from human and animal waste as well as from excess
mineralization, fluorides, heavy metals and industrial pollution often
leads to unsanitary conditions far below acceptable standards.



- 54 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 5
Demand for Hygiene and Health Education
3.        All provinces cite the need to reduce the incidence of water-
borne diseases as their major objective for improving drinking water. As
much as improvements in sanitation are required to yield good benefits from
improved water supply systems, health and hygiene education is essential to
reap the full benefit of better water and sanitation infrastructure.
However, this relationship between disease reduction, sanitation and
hygiene/health education is not yet well understood by most government
officials, civic leaders and teachers. The proposed project has therefore
been designed to demonstrate the benefits of an integral approach of these
three areas.
HHE Planning and Investment Programs
4.        Hygiene and health education programs designed particularly in
the context of improved water supply systems have so far not been used in
China. While health education has been carried out by provincial health
education institutions, Epidemic Prevention Stations at the county level
and by township health centers for a relatively short period of time, their
efforts have been severely hampered by budgetary restrictions and lack of
adequately trained staff. Long-term strategies and plans for hygiene and
health education have been prepared only recently by a few of the
provincial health education institutes. Investment programs for hygiene
and health education are well below targets recommended by the World Health
Organization (3-5% of total health expenditures). In many districts,
especially in remote and poor areas, only a nominal amount is made
available in their budgets for hygiene and health education and then funds
are often provided for personnel expenditures only.
Prolect Costs
5.        The total base project cost of the hygiene and health education
component is estimated at Yuan 32.5 million (about US$6.1 million) which
amounts to about Yuan 3.5 (US$0.65) per project beneficiary. Although this
appears to be low in comparison to water and sanitation projects in other
countries, the proposed plans and programs appear to be sound and the
provision of the essential organizational framework and physical resources
seems adequate. For comparison purposes, it must further be noted that a
large portion of hygiene and health education under the project will be
carried out at the community level where village doctors receive only very
small compensation for their training efforts (Yuan 0.5 per hour) and most
of the other village-based activities are on a voluntary basis.
Implementation
HHE Organization
6.        The hygiene and health education component will be primarily the
responsibility of the provincial public health bureaus and PPHCC with the



- 55 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 5
assistance of the provincial health education institutes. Project
activities will be administered and coordinated by the PPOs. At the
district level, the project will be implemented by the district health
bureaus with the assistance of the district health institutes; at the
county level by the epidemic prevention sections, and, where available, by
health centers at the tcwnship level. The National Project Office will
call for quarterly meetings during the first two project years and semi-
annually, or as needed, during the remaining project period. The senior
health education officials of the six project provinces will be invited in
order to exchange information and thereby benefit from each others
knowledge and experience in hygiene and health education. One important
aim of these meetings will be to improve the quality and the
standardization of hygiene and health education textbooks to be designed,
printed and distributed under the project. Within each province, a hygiene
and health education working group will meet regularly comprising health
educators and other relevant persons representing health education
interests at the different levels.
7.        Hygiene and health education campaigns, training programs and
textbook preparation will be coordinated, and evaluated at the national
level by the China Rural Water Supply Technical Center (CRWSTC) and
supported, as needed, by the National Health Education Institute which can
bring some valuable past experience to this important task. The CRWSTC
under NPHCC, which started its operation in November 1991 in the vicinity
of Beijing, will conduct specific training classes at the national level in
hygiene and health education and carry out critically needed hygiene and
health education research for China.
8.        Hygiene and health education in rural areas will not be
successful using top-down methods only, where most of the training is
focused on political leaders, medical personnel and educators. Rather, a
two-pronged approach will be used in the project. While guidance to invoke
significant changes in hygiene habits must originate from the top by the
respective authorities who will also need to provide the necessary
conditions in terms of trained personnel and other resources, most of the
household level training should be carried out by the villagers themselves
through selected community women. These women would be the key trainers
for their families and other families alike.
HHE Strategies and Programs
9.        The proposed project would include activities aimed at improving
professional guidance to the provincial and lower-level health institutions
in the area of hygiene education and water-borne disease prevention. The
proposed strategies and programs will be targeted towards community
leaders, medical personnel and educators. Community support groups (e.g.,
women organizations) and community-based efforts would receive special
attention under the project.
10.       In order to devise effective health education programs, each of
the project provinces has formulated a specific hygiene and health



- 56 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 5
education strategy for the project. This strategy sets out the proposed
objectives and targets; determines the intended target groups (e.g.,
families below a certain income level, peasants and herdsmen, minority
nationalities, children, mothers, women); determines the degree of
participatory versus instructional approech in conveying hygiene and health
education messages; selects the principal health education instruments to
be applied; proposes the required institutional responsibilities; and
decides on knowledge, attitude and practices (KAP) studies as well as on
the system of monitoring and evaluation.
11.       On the basis of this strategy, each province has prepared a
broadly defined five-year hygiene and health education program in support
of the project. These programs include activities such as training of
trainers and familiarization campaigns for community leaders; writing of
training manuals; preparation and instruction of hygiene and health
educatior. classes; revision of hygiene and health education textbooks;
initiation and implementation of hygiene and health education campaigns for
the project; development of health personnel curricula and their
implementation; establishment and training of theater groups; and devising
and implementing specific media programs. For the first project year of
this five-year program, the hygiene and health education activities have
been defined in much more detail and then prioritized, thus serving as an
actual work program.
12.       The project will not rely only on the conventional palette of
hygiene and health education instruments to familiarize the project
beneficiaries with desirable changes in water ai.d sanitation practices and
to change age-old attitudes and hygiene behavior. Since most of the
project beneficiaries are poor, not well educated, and may belong to
remotely located minority groups who are often apprehensive about outside
influences, an intensive and interactive training approach devised by
health educators and social scientists with extensive experience with rural
and minority populations will be used under the project. The resulting
training programs will have a strong participatory content in order to
raise awareness, to ensure that the whole community supports the proposed
activities, and to pay due regard to the needs of the particular
circumstances of each village.
HHE Component Implementation Schedule
13.       With the first-year hygiene and health education program clearly
defined, the hygiene and health education component can be implemented
quickly in parallel with the start-up of the water supply systems and the
initial pilot sanitation facilities. During this initial period, most of
the training of trainers at the provincial, county and village level will
take place. During the following years, detailed annual plans will be
prepared and submitted to IDA for yearly review and comment until project
completion.
14.       Special emphasis will be also be put on the early construction
and operation of training facilities and other physical infrastructure



- 57 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 5
needed to support the hygiene and health education component, such as
design studios and office accommodations for health educators who are
presently often without adequate work space. The acquisition of TV, video
and hygiene and health education materials would only take place after the
approval of the detailed annual hygiene and health education program.
Management of H1HE Component at all Levels
15.       Primary implementation responsibility for the hygiene and health
education component lies with either the Public Health Bureaus or PHCCO of
each province. Project activities would be administered by PPOs. The
health education institutes within these bureaus prepare the long-term and
annual programs based on the proposals submitted by each of the 75 project
counties. During the implementation of these programs, the leaders at the
district, township and village levels, the health and social workers as
well as teachers and village hygiene and health education facilitators will
play important roles in conveying messages relating to proper water,
sanitation and hygiene practices as well as adherence to good health and
hygiene standards.
16.       At the community level, household visits and group discussions,
rather than didactic and theoretical training, would be organized by the
community leaders themselves and supervised and monitored by the respective
health education institute. At the national level, NPO administers the
component while CRWSTC, with the assistance of the National Health
Education Institute, guides and coordinates the hygiene and health
educatiorn activities of all six project provinces.
Supervision by IDA
17.       Due to the innovative nature of the proposed approach to hygiene
and health education, IDA will have to provide substantially more than
average supervision to this project component.
Impact of Hygiene and Health Education
18.       The maximum benefits from the project in terms of health
improvements can be achieved if the project succeeds in properly
integrating the water, sanitation and hygiene and health education
components.
19.       As women are the main carriers and users of water and to a large
extent are responsible for hygiene practices within the family, the
proposed hygiene and health education campaigns focus on enhancing women's
awareness for hygiene, sanitation and safe water practices. In addition,
mothers will be trained as trainers in hygiene and health education for
their family and for other families in the village.



- 58 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 4
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
The Technical Assistance and Training Component
5verview
1.        As the project is new to the six provinces and the 75 counties
selected in this project, technical assistance and training is a most
important component in this project. The technical assistance and training
will be provided in the new techniques of water supply, sanitation, health
education and all aspects of project design, construction planning and
management, and system operations and water quality monitoring. The
training of the project personnel will start first with training at the
national level for their own staff and the provincial trainers and will be
followed by training at the provincial for their staff and the county staff
and trainers and the then in-turn the county trainers will train their own
staff and the village/township staff. Training at the national and
provincial levels will form a basis for expanding the program into non-
project provinces and counties.
Training
2.        The NPO and each PPO and CPO has prepared an overall plan for
the implementation of the training and technical assistance at their
respective levels. The national program for training includes preparing
materials and giving courses in the major ares of: (a) water supply
technology; (b) sanitation; (c) health and hygiene education; (d) project
management; (e) procurement; (f) manpower development; (g) finance; and (h)
water quality testing and monitoring. These courses will be starting
during the project preparation and early in the project implementation
phases. The necessary training manuals are in the advanced state of
preparation. The PPOs and CPOs will be starting their training soon
thereafter.
3.        In addition to giving about 30 courses and training an estimated
2400 trainees, the NPO will provide the provincial staff with course
outlines for conducting their courses, will provide guidance and will
review the yearly training plans for the provinces as well as an assessment
of the previous year's training program. The NPO plans a yearly meeting,
probably in November for about one week, to include the PPO training
directors, the NPO training group and authors preparing the course
materials. The objective of the yearly meetings are to review the past
year's training; to provide guidance for the next year's program; and to
review the preparation of newly prepared course materials.



- 59 -
ANNEXi 6
Page 2 of 4
4.        Each of the provinces and counties have prepared their training
plans based upon sequence of implementation requirements,i.e. design,
procurement, project management, finance , operation and water quality
monitoring, etc., and on the required staffing at the county levels for the
different training specialties. Since the training component is critical
to the successful implementation of this project, it was stressed through
the project preparation that the training program must fulfill the needs of
the project implementation schedules. Since the design institutes will be
using new designs for China they will be asked to participate in the
relevant training courses as well as other bureaus in the provinces and
counties that are associated with the project. The 5-year training
programs at the national, provincial and county levels are given in
Table 1.
Technical Assistance
5.        One of the objectives of the project is to bring new low-cost
systenms to China that have been developed and tried in other countries.
Therefore a necessary input to the program is the advice and review of the
water supply systems, sanitation and the health education programs by
experts in the respective areas from other countries. The foreign experts
would be providing assistance and advice to the national and provincial
levels and then local experts would be expected to assume the advisory role
for the provincial, county, township and village levels. Local expert will
be taking a substantial role in the training activities at all levels. A
list of the foreign and local experts required in the project is given in
Table 2.
6.        A study on alternative handling and disposal of night soil will
conducted under this project. An outline terms of reference for this study
is in Annex 8.



- 60 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
Table 1: 5-Year Training Program a/
National         Provincial        Counties
Courses                      o      Trainsese Courses  Trainees  Qoires  Trainees
Project Management              2       50       15     561       173     3,857
Procurement                     3       85      10      396        86     2,747
Financial/Accounting            -        -      22      988       205     5,036
Organization & Management       2       85       5      170        47      1,194
Hydrogeological                 2       85       7      260        19       358
Construction Management         -        -       21     755       139     3,793
Materials Control               -        -       7      257        49     1,832
Water Supply Technology         4      340       22     767       175      1,532
Water Quality Monitoring        3      255       20     854       170     2,750
Sanitation                      4      340       23     963       299     7,491
Health Education                5      425      48    1,651       392    14,070
Other                           5      760      21      407       371     9,205
Total               30    2.425     221    8.029     2.125    53,865
a/ Some courses will have multiple sections.



Table 2:     Technical Assistance Component a/
Guangxi      Yunnan        Hunan         Gansu       Xlnjiang      I.M.A.R.      National      Total
Local Forelon  Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Local Foreign  Local Foreian  Local Foreign  Local Foregn
Water Supply 26.00   25   10.00   3.0  15.00   20    37.0  3.5  20.00   3.0   3.00   &S    5.0  3-0  116.00  20.5
Sanitation    0.50   1.0   0.50   1.0   0.50   1.0    0.5   1.0   0.25   0.5   0.25   0.5    5.0   3.0    7.50   8.0
Health Educ 18.75   2.0  10.25   2.0  25.25   4.0   19.0   2.0  22.75   3.0  12.75   2.0    7.5   --   116.25  15.0
Project Mgmt   --    --    --   --       --    --     --   --       --   --      --   --    2.5   3.0    2.50   3.0
Total 45.25   5.5  20.75   6.0  40.75   7.0   56.5   6.5  43.00   6.5  16.00   6.0   20.0   9.0  242.25  46.5
0'w
Nightsoil Use
in Agriculture bI                                                                           98.0   6.5
al Figures given in staff-months
bl Related study not financed under proposed project
OQ Z
m z
4-
0'
0
Ft~
4s



- 62 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
5HINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
The Institution Establishment and Proiect Management Component
1.        The institution establishment and project management component
would comprise construction of project offices and staff dormitories;
provision of vehicles and office equipment; and financing of project
management and supervision activities. Total base cost of the component is
estimated at Y32.4 million (US$6.1 million equivalent), or about 4% of
total base cost. Foreign exchange cost of the component would be about
US$1.2 million or 20%.
Civil Work Constructions
2.        A total of about 20,000 square meters of office space would be
constructed at the provincial and county levels. About 4,600 square meters
(23%) would be constructed during the first year of project implementation.
Construction would follow the "Guideline and Standards for Construction of
Administrative Offices" issued by the State Planning Commission. Average
construction cost per square meter ranges from RMB Y400 to Y600, depending
on location (generally more expensive in northern provinces) and level
(higher standards for provincial level office). The credit would finance
materials procured through ICB, but would not finance civil works.
Building designs would be subject to IDA review if credit financing is
involved. (Base cost Y6.0 million)
3.        A total of about 22,500 square meters of dormitory space would
be constructed at the provincial and county levels. About 5,300 square
meters (24%) would be constructed during the first year of project
implementation. Local (provincial or regional) standards for similar
constructions would be followed. Average cost per square meter is expected
to rnnge between RMB Y250 to Y400. Design would also be subject to IDA
review if credit is to be used. (Base cost Y6.9 million)
4.        The project would also finance construction of warehouses as
needed. Design is expected to vary and would be subject to IDA review if
credit proceeds are to be used. (Base cost Y1.3 million)
Utility Vehicles and Office Equigment
5.        As project counties are dispersed, and many of them are in
remote areas, utility vehicles would be procured for project offices where
justified. The project would also provide for office equipment such as
micro-computers, type-writers, copying machines and fax machines for the
project offices at various levels which at the moment are poorly equipped.
The NPO would be responsible for making netting standards and guidelines
for the provinces, which in turn would develop guidelines for project
counties. Procurement of utility vehicles and office equipment estimated



- 63 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
to cost about Y7.9 million (US$1.5 million equivalent) would be through
ICB, and final lists of items to be procured would be subject to IDA review
and approval.
Project Managemenc and Supervision
6.        The NPO does not have a budget to cover costs of project
management and supervision activities. It was therefore agreed that the
provinces would contribute (proportional to their respective credit share)
to these expenses. Activities and projected base cost totalling about Y5.0
million are summarized as follows:
a.   Organization and administration costs associated with technical
assistance and training activities to be carried out at the
national level -- RMB Y1.0 million;
b.   Project supervision, including travel and subsistence for NPO
staff and managers -- RMB YO.4 million;
c.   Review of project designs by NPO staff and consultants, a total
of about 20 sub-projects would be subject to NPO review -- RMB
Y120,000; and
d.   Operating expenses including office space, communication,
transportation and stationary -- RMB YO.5 million.
7.        It is expected that the PPOs and, to a certain extent, CPOs
would also use project funds to cover similar project management and
supervision activities. This is estimated to amount to Y8.3 million for
the six  rtoject provinces.



- 64 -
AEX 8
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for a Study of Practices
and Attitudes to Nightsoil Use in Agriculture
1.        Background.  Latrines in rural China are widespread but
rudimentary, often consisting of little more than a shallow pit. Excreta
is sometimes covered with a little soil or ashes in an attempt to control
smell and flies. Elsewhere, simple pit latrines are employed which store
wastes until they are removed. In more densely settled areas, public
latrines have been constructed, comprising several compartments with
squatting plates from which an inclined chute conveys excreta to a pit or
cess-pool.
2.        The collection of toilet wastes by farmers for transport to
their fields and use as fertilizer/soil conditioner is a very widespread
practice which may be partly or largely responsible for many of the water-
related diseases prevalent throughout China. Diarrheal diseases, typhoid
and hepatitis are common and a high percentage of children carry intestinal
parasites (worms).
3.        The Government of China, with assistance from an IDA credit, is
preparing the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation project which will provide
water and sanitation improvements as well as health education in 6
provinces, giving emphasis to poor and remote communities.
4.        Answers are needed to a number of questions in order to
establish future sanitation strategies: What is the current distribution
and range of practices for nightsoil use in agriculture? What are the
health consequences of current practices? How can these practices be
improved? What types of latrines will be most effective and most
acceptable? Will dry composted latrine wastes (from leaching type
latrines) be preferable to liquid wastes (from conservancy type latrines)?
Will water-flushed latrines be demanded as living standards and water
consumption rise? Are leaching latrines socially and environmentally
acceptable?
5.        In order to maximize the effectiveness of RWSS interventions and
to guide future policy for rural sanitation improvements, it is proposed to
study the practices of excreta use, the probable impact of these practices
on community health, and the attitudes of farmers and their families to
alternative sanitation and reuse practices.
6.        ObQiglives.  The objectives of the study are:
a)   to identify current practices for nightsoil use in project
provinces;



- 65 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
b)   to propose standards for treatment of domestic human wastes
prior to agricultural use; and
c)   to investigate attitudes towards nightsoil treatment and use as
the basis for future sanitation strategies.
7.        Scope of Work.  The following activities are pruposed:
a)   review literature on the use of excreta as fertilizer and the
health risks such practices entail;
b)   establish regional practices through interviews and a
questionnaire survey;
c)   collect and analyze available health statistics and
epidemiological date on nightsoil use;
d)   investigate the effectiveness of preferred latrine designs in
removing helminth eggs and faecal coliform. Propose a standard
for household latrines;
e)   identify principal economic, cultural and social constraints to
changing re-use practices with a view to making then more
hygienic; and
f)   propose guidelines/standards for future nightsoil use in
agriculture.
8.        Staffin
a)   Expatriate staff
Health specialist              5 months part time
Sanitation specialist          5 months part time
Social scientist               3 months part time
b)   China staff
Principal investigator         18 months full time
Administrator                  18 months full time
Behavioral scientist           18 months 1/3 time
3 Provincial epidemiologists  18 months 1/3 time
6 County epidemiologists       18 months full time
30 Field workers                6 months full time
6 Laboratory technicians        4 months full time
1 Data manager/supervisor      12 months full time
3 Data entry clerks            12 months full time



- 66 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
9.        Budget
Expatriate staff - Professional               Grant Financed
- Travel & subsistence           $  68,000
China Staff' - Professional                   Locally Financed
- Technical                      Locally Financed
- Travel and Subsistence         $ 120,000
Equipment    - Centrifuge, etc
for 4 provinces                $  48,000
Fellowship   - 1 month for Principal
Investigator                   $   6,000
Contingencies                                 S  58,000
TOTAL                     $ 300,000
10.       Organization &Responsibilities.  The study is proposed to be
carried out by provincial and county Anti-Epidemic Stations in the
provinces of Hunan, Yunnan, Guangxi and Gansu. The London School of
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine (or any other selected consultant) would
provide specialist advice and support during the study. The study would be
directed jointly by a responsible Chinese agency, the consultant and the
Bank.
11.       Timing and Reporting.   The study will require 18 months to
carry out. The following substantive reports are proposed in addition to
quarterly progress reports:
a)   A report on current practices giving details of practices in
each region, health profiles, and proposing key questions
requiring quantitative answers;
b)   A report on the results and analysis of data from questionnaire
surveys;
c)   A report on latrine designs and their effectiveness;
d)   A report on social, economic and cultural constraints to
modified re-use practices;
e)   A final report.
To be provided by local institutions totalling 180 months of
professional input and 240 months of technical input.



CHINA
RURAL MATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
SuWry Account by Project Component
RIB
Physical         Price
Contingencies    Contingencies
GUANGXI  YURNAN    NUNAN      GANSU   NEINONG XINJIANG NATIONAL    Total           X    Amount       X   Amoimt
1, INVESTRENT COSTS
.............. ................ ..
A. WATER SUPPLY                      135.5    110.6    144.5        92.8      75.7      82.7      0.0    642.0       10.0      64.2   31.7    203.4
B. SANITATION                          6.5       5.2       8.1       4.8       3.4       3.2      0.0      31.3      10.0       3.1   33.4       10.5
C. HEALTH EDUCATION                    6.3       5.2       9.6       5.1       3.4       2.9      0.0      32.5      10.0       3.2   30.1       9.8
0. TA AND TRAINING                     4.9       6.9      10.1       2.1       3.5       4.7      3.0      35.2      10.0       3.5   30.8       10.8
E. INSTIT.& NANAGEPENT                 5.9       5.7       4.1       2.8       7.4      4.5       2.0      32.4      10.0       3.2   29.1       9.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                 159.1    133.7    176.8    107.6        93.4      97.9       5.0    M7.4        10.0      77.3   31.5    243.9
Physical Contingencies              15.9      13.4      17.7      10.8      9.3       9.8       0.5      77.1
Price Contirgencies                 51.9      40.8      55.9      33.8      29.8      30.2      1.6    243.9        9.1      22.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                  226.9    187.9    250.3    152c2    132.5    137.8           7.1   1094.6        9.1      99.5   22.3    243.9
Taxes                                0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchange                    87.1      78.1     123.2      75.0      53.2      72.8      2.1    491.5        9.1      44.7
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 11/13/1991 14:41
0rX2
O-
0D 



CHINA
RUAL UATER SUPPLY ANO SANITATION PROJECT
RHO
Su .ry Accounts by Year
ease Costs                                   Foreign Exchange
92/9      93/94     94/95      95/96     96/97      Total         X    Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
...................
A.  YATER SUPPLY                      160.8     139.5      176.2     109.8       55.8     642.0        50.3   322.7
S. SANITATION                           4.8       8.5        8.1       6.3       3.7       31.3         0.0      0.0
C.  HEALTH EDUCATION                   11.3       7.6        5.8       4.4        3.3      32.5        29.9      9.7
0.  TA AND TRAINING                     8.9      11.1        7.0       5.2        3.0      35.2        23.7      8.4
E.  INSTIT.& MKAAGEIENT                13.0       7.8        4.9       3.7        3.1      32.4        20.4      6.6
Total BASELINE COSTS                  198.8     174.5     202.0      129.3      68.8      773.4        44.9   347.3
Physical Contingencies              19.9      17.4      20.2       12.9       6.9       77.3        44.9    34.7
Price Contingencies                39.6       47.7      69.2       53.6      33.8      243.9        44.9   109.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                   258.3     239.7     291.4      195.8      109.5    1094.6        44.9   491.5
Taxes                               0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0
Foreign Exchange                  116.1      106.5     133.1       87.8      48.0      491.5       100.0   491.5
,.................................................................................................................... .... ...... .. ..... .. ........ ......... .
Values Scaled by 1000000.0  11/13/1991  14:41                                                                                                                               t
CD
0\
0
l-t
I oo 



CHIDA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AiD SANITATION PROJECT
Soury Accoumts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                            Totals Including Contingencies
RB                                                         USS
.___................... ............................................. .........    ............. . ............. ...................... *_........
92/93   93(94   94/95   95/96   96/97   Total           92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96   96197   Total
1. INVESTMENfT CDSTS
A. WATER StFPPLY                      208.9   191.6   254.2   166.2    88.7   909.6            37.6    33.4    4 -5  27.9    14.6-  157.0
B. SANITATION                           6.2    11.7    11.6        9.5      5.9    44.9          1.1     2.0      2.0      1.6      1.0     7.7
C. HEALTH EDUCATION                    14.7    10.4       8.4      6.7      5.2    45.5         2.6      1.8      1.4      1.1     0.9      7.9
0. TA AND TRAINING                      11.6    15.2    10.1       7.8      4.8    49.6          2.1     2.7      1.7      1.3      0.8     8.6
E. INSTIT.& MANAGEMENT                 16.9    10.7       7.0      5.6      4.9    45.1         3.0       1.9     1.2      0.9     0.8      7.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                   258.3   239.7   291.4   195.8   109.5  1094.6            46.5    41.8    49.9    32.9    18.0   189.1
---- --- ---- --- ---- --- ---- -= --- - - -- - - -- - - -- ---------- _ ---Q   _-------- ------ ----- ------ ----- ------ -----
Values Scaled by 1000000.0  11/13/1991  14:40
a,
(DL 1



- 70 -
ANNEX 10
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Financing Plans and Credit Repayment Responsibilities
Flnancino Plan by Province
Guangxl       Yunnan        Hunan         Gansu        Neimong       Xlnjlang      Total
USSm   %t    Mm    U% US$ m  %b                        USS m m       USS m m       US$  m   Ok
IDA                         21.0   64    18.0   65    27.0   62    18.0   68    10t0   44    16.0   ea   110.0   58
Provinoes and Prefectures    3.9   10      2.6    8      4.3   10      6.4   24     2.2   10      3.7   15    23.0   12
Countiesand Townships        3.9   10      e.3   19      1.9    4      1.6    8      2.4   11      2.7   11    18.9   10
Communties and Individuals   10.3   26     6.1   18    10.3   24       0.6    2      8.2   36      1.7    7    37.2   20
Total            39.1  100    32.9  100    43.5  100    2e.6  100    22.9  100    24.1  100   189.1  100
Financina Plan by Comgonent
Water Supply   Sanitation    Health Educ.  TA & Train'g   IE & Mgmt     Total
USS m   0    US$ m   %    US$ m   4    US$ m  4    US$ m   O    USS m   4
IDA- Foreign Exchange       79.0   60      0.0    0      2.4   30      2.0   24      1.6   20    85.0   46
IDA - Looal Currenoy        26.0   16      0.0    0      0.0    e     0.0    0      0.0    0    26.0   13
Counterpart Funds           53.0   34      7.7  100      6.6   70      6.6   76     6.3   80    79.1   42
Total           167.0  100      7.7  100      7.9  100      8.e  100      7.9  100   189.1  100
Credit Reoayment RFsoonsibllities
Guangxi      Yunnan         Hunan         Gansu        Nilmong       Xinjiang        Total
US m  4    USSm r b   YA mjjU m             S          US$ m          USS m   OA    US$m   4
Provincial Government        0.0    0      0.0    0      0.0    0      5.4   30      0.0    0      4.8   30    10.2    9
County Government            0.0    0      0.0    0      2.7   10      0.0    0      0.0    0      0.0    0      2.7    2
Recovered from WaterCharge  21.0  100    18.0  100    24.3   90    12.e   70    10.0  100    11.2   70    97.1   88
Total            21.0  100    18.0  100    27.0  100    18.0  100    10.0  100    16.0  100   110.0  100
Note: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding



- 71 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 3
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
UNDP/World Bank CPR/091/141 Project Description
Background
1.        The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), in cooperation
with the World Bank, has provided technical assistance to the water and
sanitation sector in China since 1983. Low-cost and appropriate water and
sanitation technologies were introduced. Following the initial laboratory
and field testing of different domestic and imported handpump designs,
demonstration handpumps were installed between 1986 to 1987 in Langfang
(Hebei Province) and in Ejinhoro (Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region). To
demonstrate proper plann.ing and implementation of a community water supply
and low-cost sanitation program, CPR/88/Oll: the Low-Cost Rural Water
Sugglyv and Sanitation Proiect was initiated in 1988 in the autonomous
regions of Xinjiang and Inner Mongolia. Demonstration projects and human
resources development programs were administered, safe and adequate water
was provided, health and hygiene condition enhanced, and technical and
managerial skills of the counterparts improved satisfactorily. This
project was completed in 1990.
2.        To replicate the successful technological development and
demonstration projects, and as a direct support to the China Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Project, CPR/091/141: the Capacity Building and
Investment Preparation for Rural Water and Sanitation in Poor and Remote
A=reas Project was conceived and slated for implementation chiefly in
Guangxi, Yunnan, Hunan, Gansu, Neimong and Xinjiang.
Goal and Objectives
3.        The Project's goal is to strengthen the sector's technical,
institutional and managerial capacity to plan, develop strategies, and
implement and sustain rural water supply and sanitation improvements for
poor and remote communities.
4.        The objectives of the Projecr: are: (a) to assist national,
provincial (regional) and county agencies to develop their institutional
and technical capacity to prepare sub-projects of the IDA-assisted Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation Project; and (b) to assist the Executive Office
of the National Patriotic Health Campaign Committee (NPHCCO) and the
provincial (regional) agencies to formulate and implement strategies,
enhance further development of low-cost and appropriate projects and
administrate complementary support activities like hygiene education and
community management.



- 72 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 3
Project CoraQonents
5.        The Project has five components, viz: sector planning, strategy
formulation, demonstration, human resources development, and monitoring and
evaluation.
Proiect Cost
6.        The total project cost is US$3,681,000, of which US$1,186,000
will be financed by UNDP and about US$2,495,000 (RMB Y13 million) will be
borne by the Government of China. The project is expected to provide about
18 months of foreign consultant input to be implemented in conjunction with
the proposed RWSS Project.
Expected Benefits
7.        The target beneficiaries of the Project are: (a) the communities
(individual households, users groups, schools) to be served with improved
water supply and sanitation through the demonstration projects; and (b) the
concerned national, provincial, prefectural and county authorities and
staff.
8.        Upon the termination of the Project, the following benefits will
have been derived: (a) As part of "investment preparation", national and
local authorities will have enhanced their skills to prepare, monitor, and
evaluate sub-projects including the selection, design and implementation of
sub-projects; (b) Implementation strategies and policies will have been
developed and adopted at the provincial level; (c) As an element of
capacity building, a total of 200 wells will have been drilled and equipped
with handpumps and 160 latrines constructed in the demonstration areas,
thereby improved water supplies (in terms of quantity, quality, reliability
and ease of access) and sanitation condition will have been attained; (d)
Illness (hepatitis, gastro-intestinal) as well as unproductive time spent
in carrying water from far distance will have been reduced greatly; (e)
Capacity to build and operate medi.un-size drilling rigs as well as the
manufacture of handpumps in other provinces will have been strengthened;
and (f) the persons responsible for planning, design, construction and
management of water supply and sanitation facilities will have received
additional valuable knowledge and experience through on-the-job ("hands-
on") training and formal seminars, workshops and study tours.
9.        It is expected that through this Project, the knowledge and
experience gained will be disseminated to other provinces in the country.
The programmatic approach, technologies and institutional models developed
will help other provinces to improve their rural water supply and
sanitation delivery systems. The Project, is, thus, expected to play a
catalytic role in the overall development of the sector.



- 73 -
ANNEX I11
Page 3 of 3
Institutional Arrangements
10.       The executing agency is the China International Center for
Economic and Technical Exchanges (CICETE) while the implementing agency is
the NPHCCO. The World Bank, through the UNDP/World Bank Water and
Sanitation Program (Program) of INUWS, serves as a cooperating agency.
11.       The NPHCCO in association with the Program shall provide
technical assistance on project planning and construction as well as system
management to the concerned Provincial and County Project Offices.
IMDlementation Schedule
12.       The Project was approved in August 1991 and became effective 'n
October 1991. It would have an implementation period of about two years.



- 74 -                        ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION ?ROJECT
Organization and Functions of Projgect Offices
Delineation of Respongibilities
1.          National Project Office - Responsible for the overall project
planning, direction, coordination, monitoring, control and evaluation. Liaise
with the Bank, concerned government institutions and related agencies.
Procure through ICB pertinent goods and equipment as well as handle their
distribution and control. Approve, as authorized, sub-project design reports
and contracts. Conduct central-level initiated training programs. Provide
technical assistance to the project offices. Prepare periodic project
progress reports and financial statements for submission to concerned
government institutions and to the Bank.
2.          Provincial Proiect Offices - Responsible for the day-to-day
provincial level project activities. Handle construction management
(contracting, materials management, construction supervision and control,
reporting) within the limit of its authority. Administer training programs.
Procure through LCB relevant materials and equipment. Ensure compliance to
financial commitments (contributions and repayments) to the project. Approve,
as authorized, sub-project design reports and contracts. Review and
coordinates county progress reports and financial statements and prepare
provincial report for submission to concerned government institutions and to
the Bank.
3.          County Project Offices - Responsibilities are similar to the PPOs
but limited to county-level operations.   In addition, CPOs are responsible
for the initial operation of the water companies including training of their
staff (technical and financial). Liaise with the township government,
specifically with the caretakers of the wells and other non-piped systems.
4.          Leading Groups - were established in the national, provincial and
county levels to act as the policy-making and coordinating (external) bodies
of the project.
5.          Support Agencies - provide necessary assistance to the project
offices in terms of finance (MOF and local finance bureaus), planning and
administration (SPC and local planning commissions), design institutions,
health education institutes, construction bureaus, training institutions (TTC
and local training centers).
6.          Local Governments (provincial, prefectural, county and township) -
are the backbone of the entire project development process including the
operational stage in terms of provision of regulations, leadership,
collaboration, etc. The concerned provincial and county Vice Governors act as
the Chairman of the Leading Groups.



- 75 -                                              ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 3
Prolect Organizatlon Chart
N4ATIONAL PROJECT OFFICE                                      NATIONALPROJEOT
DIRECOTOR
OEPUTYf NATIOMAl
PROJECOT DIRECTOR
WATER                   HEALTH    ~~~_ _.    __   __ _  _ |___  _  __ _ __  _ __ _ __  _ __ _ __  _ __ _  _
|   ANIATION       EDUCATION |PROCUREMNT                                  TR| NI       |     N
PROVINCIAL    |
PROVINCIAL PROJECT OFFICES                                      PROJECOT
DIREOTOR
ENG'NEERINGSANITATiON  CUCATION-POCUREMENT                                 TRANNG         AMIITRTONFNAC
jCOUMT PROJECTn
COUNTY PROJECT OFFICES                                          DIRECTOR
INEALTIl
E1GINEERI1G           SANITATION      EDUCATION                          PROCUREMENT         TRANIN         A 
C OUNTY         |
|  IOVCRNMENT   |
Large Water Companies                                                                                    Medium Water Companies
|~ ~~~~ULT                                                                          WATE |QUALITYR 
m   TOWNWHIP                                                            t
Small Water Companfos                                _        iNon-Piped Systems



- 76 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 3
Sector Orcanization Chart
POLICY-MAKING                      IMPLEMENTING             SUPPORT
BODIES                             AGENCIES                AGENCIES
ATE COUNCIL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~SAE LNNN
|NPHCC
MINISTRY OF_     _
PUBLIC llEALTH  ___NPHClCO
_           8TATE PLAN~~NING
COMMISSION,
MINISTRY OF
OFFICE                  FINANCE
PROVINCIAL      PROVINCIAL     PUBLIC HEALTH
GOVERNMENT      LEADING         BUREAU
GROUPI
I                     ~~~~~~~~PROVINCIAL        PROVINCIAL
COUNTY          COUNTY       PUBLIC HEALTH            I
GOVERNMENT       LEADING        OFFICE
GROUP                                I
COUNTY                   COUNTY
PROJECT                  PLANNING
OFFICE                    AND
FINANCE
LARGE WATER            MEDIUM WATER
COMPANY   |             COMPANY
TOWNSHIP
G OVERNMENT            
SMALL WATER |        | NON-PIPED
COMPANY                 SYSTEM



- 77 -
ANNYEX 13
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Staffing of Project Offices
Guangxl   Yunnan    Hunan       Gansu    Neimong   Xinjlanu
NO QPPO CPO PPO CPO PPO CPO PPO CPO PPO CPO PPO GPO
Protect ManaDement
Required           2    3   2    2   2    2   2    3   2    2   2    5   2
Actual             2    1   2    1   2    2   2    2   2    1   2    4    1
Enaineering
Required           2    3   4    2   4    2   3    3   4            1   3    3   4
Actual             2    2   3    2   3    2   2    1   3    1   2    3   1
Health Education
Required           1    1   1    2   1    1   1    2   1    1   1    2   1
Actual             1    1   1    1   1    1   1    1   1    1   1    2   1
Hvdroaeoloav
Required           0    1   1    1   1    1   1    1   1    1   1    3   1
Actual             0    1   1    1   1    1   1    1   1    1   1    3    1
Sanitation
Requirod           1    2   2    1   2    2   2    1   2    1   2    2   1
Actual             1    1   1    1   1    1   1    1   1    1   1    2   1
Training Coodinatfon
Required           1    2   1    1   1    1   1    2    1    1   1    2    1
Actual             1    1   1    1   1    1   1    1   1    1   1    2    1
Acountlna & Financ
Required           2    3   3    2   3    2   3    2   3    3   3    2   2
Actual             1    2   2    2   2    1   2    1   2    2   2    2   1
fProcurement
Required           1    2   3    2   2    1   2    2   2    2   2    4   2
Actual             1    0   1    1   1    1   1    1   1    1   2    2   1
Translatlon
Required           1    1   0    1   1    2   0    1   1    0   0    2   0
Actual             0     1   0    1   0    1   0    1   0    0   0             1   0
Qther
Required           1    5   4    2   3    2   2    2   4    3   4    3    1
Actual             1    2   3    0   1    1   1    0   3    3   3              1   1
Required          12   23  21   16  20   16  17   19  21   15  19   28  15
Actual            10   12  15   11  13   12  12   10  15   12  15   22   9
OlWhich Part-Time    3    3   5      1   -    -   -        1   -     3   -    -
Required - Numbor required for project Implementation.
Actual . Number on board at appraisal.
It Is expected that all project offIces will be fully staffed by the end of the first year of Implementation.



- 78 -
ANNEX 14
Pap,3 1 of 2
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
YEAR                 1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
OTR     OTR      QTR     QTR      QTR      QTR      QTR
ACTIVITY            1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
Credit Processing                               A E X                                        Y   z
Annual Plans                                        I R      I R     I R      I R      I R
Procurement
ICB Goods and Equipment                 T B C          T B C           T B C
LCBGoods                              T B C            B C      B C      B C      B C
Water Supply and Sanitation Manuals           M D          N D
Water Supply
Shallow-well Handpump                   H H
Warehouse Construction                  K K K K K K
Sanitation
Design                                    L L L L N D
Construction                              VVVVVSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS
Nightsoll Use Study                          n n n n n n
Health Educatlon
Materials Development                 J J J J J J         J       J        J
Tralning Centers                        K K K K K K K K
TA&Tralnlng                                 U UU U WW WWWU wwww Wwwu wwwu ww
TechnicalAssistance                 a a a a a a        a        a        a
Training Materials                    J J J J J J J       J       J        J
Training of Trainers                  O OO P P P P
Speclallzed Tralning                  t t t t t t t        t t t t t O            a
Institutional Establishment
Construction                               KKKKKKKK
Progress Evaluation                          _                                               G



- 79 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
LEGEND
A    Board approval of credit
a    Technical assistance
B    Bld Invitatlon and evaluation
C    Contract award
D    Printing and distribution of updated water supply and sanitation manuals
E    Credit effectiveness
G    Progress evaluatlon at mid-term and completion
H    Development of shallow-well desion
I    Preparation of Implementation programs for the following year
i    Development of traln ng and health education materials, annual review and update
K    Construction of offices and dormitories, warehouses at provincial and county levels
L    Monitoring of performance of various latrine designs Included in manual
M    Flnal draft of water supply and sanitation manuals
N    Preparation of new sanitation manual based on first year experience
n    Study of practices and attitudes to nightsoil use in agriculture
0    Tralning of natlonal tralners (NPO, national consultants, Institutes at tine center)
P    Training of provincial and county trainers
0    Training effectiveness evaluation
R    Review and approval of annual programs by PPO, NPO & IDA
S    Construction of sanitation facIlitles Included In revised sanitatIon manual
T    Preparatlon of tender documents
t    Speclallzed training
U    Use of UNDP CPRt91 funds to finance forelgn costs of technical assistance and training
V    Construction of various sanitatlon facilities included In first sanitation manual
W    Use of RWSS credit funds to finance forelgn costs of technical assistance and traIning
X    Establishment of provincial special accounts
Y    Project completion date June 30, 1997
Z    Project closing date December 31, 1997



- 80 -
ANNEX 15
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Estimated Credit Disbursement Schedule
Disbursement              Disbursement
Fiscal        Semester            (US$ million)               Profile (%)
Year           Ending        Semester   Cumulative         China    Proiect
1992         06/30192  a/         7             7            0          6
1993         12/31/92             9            16            7         15
06/30/93            10           26            16         24
1994         12/31/93            10            36           31         33
06/30/94            15           51            48         46
1995         12/31/94            15            66           61         60
06/30195            10           76            69         69
1996         12V31/95            10            86           76         78
06130/96             8           94            83         85
1997         12/31/96             8           102           89         93
06/30/97             5          107            94         97
1998         12V31197             3           110          100        100
a/ Includes the initial disbursement of US$7.0 million for the Special Accounts



- 81 -
ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators
1.    Sub-project under preparation, under construction and completed:
- Point out the estimated number of sub-project per development
stage and the total number of sub-projects to be constructed;
- Compare targets to physical accomplishments and register
deviations;
- Provide additional information such as community participation
aspects, the number of sub-projects which were not yet started but
actual work had begun (e.g., surveys and designs); and
- Track down delays in execution and "start-up" problems including
dates when the sub-projects are expected to be started and
completed.
2.    Expenditures incurred and status of disbursement:
- Quantify total amount spent in the project per reporting period
and the credit availments made;
- Compare financial projections (e.g. cash flow) to actual
expenditures and credit disbursement as well as physical
accomplishments; and
- Indicate too slow/fast disbursements, and determines cause and
impact of such situation, hence, future actions can be
anticipated.
3.    Procurement status (ICB and LCB):
- Enumerate the different procurement activities (e.g., pre-
qualification, advertisement, bidding, bid evaluation and awards)
and indicates the n.iber of procurement lots under each activity;
- Signify procurement schedule (e.g., milestone targets) and the
extent of compliance; and
- Reflect the names and other detailed information of suppliers and
manufacturers.
4.    Status of civil works contracts:
- Present the estimated number of civil work contracts to be entered
into and the number of contracts commissioned.



- 82 -
ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 2
5.    Progress of health education program:
- Denote the type and quantity of health education materials to be
produced, distributed and disseminated; and
- Record the estimated and actual number of health education classes
to be undertaken.
6.    Progress of technical assistance:
- Show the types (or focus) of technical assistance to be provided
and the implementation schedule;
- Classify the consultants or staff needed to accomplish the tasks;
and
- Describe the impact of the assistance extended.
7.    Progress of training programs:
- Exhibit an annual training program including training
modules/courses, schedules/deviations, number of training
events/sessions, participants (by gender), manpower requirements
and budgets;
- Evaluate training performance and impact of the training program;
and
- Quantify the number of training programs conducted and compare
with plans.
8.    Staffing:
Record the planned and filled staff positions; and
Determine adequacy or deficiency of personnel per project office.
9.    Major outstanding issues and problems, proposed solutions and
required actions:
- Enumerate the issues and problems being encountered, propose
solutions(s) and indicate necessary actions to be taken by
concerned institution and/or official;
- Track policy, operational and personnel-related issues and
problems and resolve to the extent possible with built-in
solutions; and
- Anticipate or prevents an issue from becoming a problem, or a
minor problem from becoming a serious problem that may greatly
affect the prosecution of the sub-projects.



- 83 -
ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.        IDA Staff Supervision Input.  Regular and continuous supervision
by IDA staff would be needed throughout the start-up and investment phases
of the project. During the first two years of project implementation, IDA
staff (headquarters and RMC) would work closely with the staff of the
UNDP/World Bank Beijing office in the development of training and technical
assistance programs, dissemination of appropriate technologies for water
supply and sanitation, and review of physical progress. Combined
supervision input into key activities during the first year of project
implementation is detailed in Table 1. IDA staff input is estimated to be
about 12 staff-weeks. Detailed requirements for outer years would be
developed along with the Annual Project Implementation Plans.
2.        Implementation Agencies' Supervision Input.  Overall project
monitoring and coordination would be the responsibility of the National
Project Office (NPO). Review meetings and workshops with project provinces
would be held at least once a year to cover issues relating to procurement,
disbursement, allocation and collection of counterpart funds, accounting
and auditing, selection of appropriate technology, preparation and review
of project design, physical construction, development of training and
health/hygiene education materials, and preparation and modification of
annual implementation programs.
3.        Provincial and county project offices (PPOs and CPOs) would hold
more frequent and less formal review meetings and workshops. They will be
responsible for identifying problems and resolve them and/or seek help for
their resolution in a timely manner.  Significant lessons learned should
also be recorded and disseminaLed.



- 84 -
ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 2
Table 1: IDA SupervisionI nput into Key Activities During
First Year of Project Implementation
Staff
Approximate                                                              Input
Date                                              Expected Skills        (Staff-
(Month/Year)   Activity                           Requirement           Weeks)
4-5/92         Supervision Mission (including   Water Supply            6
CPR/91/141 staff)                 engineering (WE)
"Project Launch Workshop"         Sanitation
which focuses on:                 engineering (SE)
(a)  clarifying institutional    Health/Hygiene
setup and staffing           education (HHE)
(b)  implementation schedule,    Financial analysis
first year program           (FA)
(c)  reporting requirements       Procurement
and procedures               Disbursement
(d)  procurement, first batch
of ICB goods
(e)  disbursements, special
accounts
5-8/92         Review procurement documents       Procurement           2
and bid evaluation reports for
first ICB batch
10-12/92       Review project implementation    PM, WE, SE, HHE,        2
plan for 1993 and assist in       FA
modifications                     Training
11-12/92       Supervision Mission                WE, SE/HHE, FA        4
(a)  discuss project
implementation plan for
1993
(uj  site visits to review
physical progress
(c)  review training and HHE
materials
(d)  review accounting
practices and records
2-3/93         Evaluation of sanitation           Sanitation            1
facilities built                  engineering



CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Provincial and Counter Finances
Proincial Finances
Guangxi         Yunnan           Hunan            Gansu          Neirong         Xinjiang
High    Low    High    Low    Hiah    Low        High    Low    Hich    Low    High    Low
Annual Expenditure in Rural Water  11.6    7.5      25      14    41.7    24.6    13.3    5.3        7.1    1.3    35.6    9.4
Supply and Sanitation Sector
(1987-1989) (Y million)
Annual Sector Expenditure as %      0.2    0.1      0.3    0.2      0.5     0.4      0.3    0.3      0.1      -      0.8    0.2
of Total Expenditure
Estimated Annual Expenditure       5.7       -      3.7      -      5.7       -      8.8      -      2.7      -      3.2
for Proposed Project (Y million)
co
Estimated Project Expenditure as %  0.07     -     0.04      -    0.06        -     0.19      -    0.05       -     0.06      -
of Total Expenditure
County Finances
Guangxi         Yunnan          Hunan             Gansu         Neimong         Xinjiang
High    Low    High    Low    High       Low     High    Low    High    Low    Hiqh    Low
Annual Rural Water Supply and Sanitation  0.9  -    2.3    0.1      0.3       -      6.6      -      1.7    0.1      4.3
Setor Expenditure as % of
Total Expenditure (1987-1989)
Estimated Annual Project Expenditure    2.6  -      3.1      -      0.9       -      0.9      -      1.5      -      0.3
as % of Total Expenditure
3
I.-
OD



- 86 -
CHINA                                        ANNEX 19
Page 1 of 2
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Nvical Costs and Affordabit
Projected Water
Consumption  Water Charge  Average Charge 1989 Average Per Charges as % of   No. of
(Ipcd)     (fan/ton)    (YL/person/year)   Capita Income  1989 income   Countles
Province/County    Ml Low    H12l Low       Hiah    Low       (RMB Y)           High
1. guanaxi
Fusul       60   20       50   25       7.30    2.92       355              1.6
Longan      60   43       66   40      11.91    5.96       353              3.4
Lalbin      65   40       45   25       8.30    5.96       280              3.0
Pingguo     60   20       77   38       9.86    5.55       245              4.0
Qinzhou     60   40       80   53      11.91    5.96       507              2.4
Yangshuo    80   40       45   14       8.78    2.92       388              2.3
Cenxl       60   20       48   40       9.86    3.26       410              2.4
Gulgang     60   45       72   45      12.36    9.23       332              3.7
Duan        60   20       57   4.5    10.95    3.65        236              4.6
Provinclal   80   20     80   14      12.36    2.92       483            3% and under      5
3-5°%            4
Over 5%          0
2. Yunnan
Qujing      65   40       77   47      11.24    7.21       431              2.6
OiaoJla     40   30       32   19       5.04    2.05       162              3.1
Baoshan     50   25       50   45       9.15    6.34       355              2.6
Yunxian     40   30       65   28       9.49    4.09       225              4.2
Mile        60   40       91   30      19.60    6.57       343              5.7
Waelshan    55   20       85   1 9     10.50    3.40       228              4.6
Chuxiong    60   20       56   37      11.26    8.04       364              3.1
Provincial   65   20     91   19       19.6   2.05        460            3% and under      2
3-5%             4
Over 5%          1
3. Hunan
Challng     80   35       72   22      11.83    3.83       476              2.5
Hongdong    80   30       77   20      12.65    3.29       637              2.0
Hengshan    80   35       79   22      '4.89    3.70       488              3.1
Chengbu     80   40       65   33      12.56    5.26       427              2.9
YVuyang     80   40       73   37      12.85    9.49       774              1.7
Huarong     80   40       78   38      14.31    9.93       779              1.8
Linli       80   40       73   30      12.85    5.26       526              2.4
Anxlang     76   40       70   42      11.50   10.22       612              1.9
Sangzhi     70   35       63   21      11.63    3.32       199              5.8
Nanxian     75   40       67   41      11.22    9.78       603              1.9
Xlnhua      70   35       66   21      10.13    3.83       347              2.9
Jlahe       80   35       65   22      12.59    3.83       545              2.3
Chenxlan    80   35       71   25      12.26    3.70       372              3.3
Jlanghua    80   35       66   20      12.26    3.32       312              3.9
Jlangyong    80   35      69   21      14.02    3.70       580              2.4
Chenxi      80   35       78   21      14.31    3.45       431              3.3
Qialyang    75   40       66   32      10.13    5.40       594              1.7
Yongshun    70   40       63   34       9.64    5.40       406              2.4
Fenghuang   80   35       70   23      13.72    3.70       443              3.1
Provincial   80   30     79   20      14.89    3.29       546            3% and under    13
3-5%             5
Over 5%          1



- 87 -
ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 2
Projected Water
Consumption  Water Charge Average Charge 1989 Average Per Charges as % of   No. of
(Ipcd)     (fenlton)    (Y/personlyear)   Capita Income  1989 Income   Counties
ProvincgiCounhy Hh Aw        Hh Low                iw Lo    (MB Y)            Hloh
4. QLnsU
Lintao      60   20      89   39      16.21    3.65       352             4.6
Tongwel     60   20      83   37      15.77    3.72       280             5.6
Huintng     60   20      86   36      16.43   3.72        272             6.0
Jingyuan    60   20      89   39      16.64    3.80       355             4.7
Plngliang    60   30     95   48      16.43    6.90       444             3.7
Zhenyuan    60   20      85   37      15.77   3.65        344             4.6
MInle       60   20      95   41      17.52   4.16        477             3.7
Beidao      60   20      90   36      17.30   4.02        374             4.6
Qlncheng    60   20      88   73      16.64   5.91        378             4.4
Wuwel       60   40      93   72      16.21   12.99       470             3.5
Linxia      60   40      84   75      16.43   12.26       266             6.2
Xiahe       60   40      89   76      16.86   12.56       449             3.8
H'ulxian    60   30      90   49      16.43    6.79       459             3.6
Yongdeng    60   40      86   70      15.77   12.26       370             4.3
Provincial   60   20    95   36      17.52   3.65        376           3% and under     0
3-5%            11
Over 5%          3
5. Neimona
Tongllao    80   40      64   50      14.60   9.34        700             2.1
Nalman      60   20      57   16      11.17    1.53       240             4.7
Arun        80   20      65   15    14.60    1.83         593             2.5
LInxi       60   20      62   15    10.95    1.39         365             3.0
Dalad       60   20      63   18      11.83   1.61       463              2.6
Elin Horo    60   20     59   10    11.61    1.46         357             3.3
TumdZuo    60   20       64   16      11.39    1.68       460             2.5
Togt        60   20      57   17      11.17    1.46       225             5.0
Hohhot      70   20      62   17      13.80    1.75      480              2.9
Provincial   80   20    65   10    14.60    1.39         500           3% and under     6
3-5%             3
Over 5%          0
6. Xinliang
Moyu        60   25      72   17    10.51    2.01         305             3.5
Hotan       60   25      81   14      11.83   2.04        413             2.9
Shule       60   25      76   18      11.10   2.10       401              2.8
Shache      60   25      70   15      10.22    2.17       444             2.3
Akto        60   25      84   16      12.26    1.92       407             3.0
Kuqa        60   25      79   10      11.53    1.46      476              2.4
Luntal      60   25      89   12      13.14    1.75       505             2.6
Toksun      60   25      80   15      11.68   2.17        748             1.6
Jinghe      60   25      87   17    12.70   2.10          719             1.8
Altay       60   25      78   10    11.39   1.46          487             2.3
Aksu        60   40      79   38      11.53   8.32        542             2.1
Kashgar     60   25      88   17    12.85    2.10        494              2.6
Bole        60   25      73   17    10.66   2.28          479             2.2
Wujiaqu     60   40      74   30      11.17   6.57        515             2.2
Kuytun      60   40      68   37       9.93    8.10       482             2.1
Shlhezl     60   40      69   41      10.07   8.98        489             2.1
Beltun      60   25      87   10      12.70    1.46       391             3.3
Provincial   60   25    89   10      13.14    1.46       496           3% and under    15
3-5%             2
Over 56          0



- 88 -
ANNEX 20
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in ProJect File
1.   Draft National Project Proposal.
2.   Draft Provincial Project Proposals by Guangxi, Yunnan, Hunan, Gansu,
Neimong and Xinjiang.
3.   Draft County Project Proposals and typical design reports and drawings
of water supply and sanitation facilities by:
Longan, Laibin and Qinzhou of Guangxi;
Qujing, Qiaojia and Mile of Yunnan;
Hengdong, Anxiang and Qianyang of Hunan;
Lintao, Minle and Qincheng of Gansu;
Tongliao, Tumb Zuo and Hohhot of Neimong; and
Shache, Altay and Shihezi of Xinjiang.
4.   Consultant Team's Report, December 1990.
5.   Consultant's review report on existing rural water supply manuals, July,
1990.
6.   Draft Supplemental Rural Water Supply Design Manual, September, 1991.
7.   Draft Sanitation Manual, September, 1991.
8.   Simplified provincial and county financial statements (historical and
projected, 1987-1992).
9.   Typical costs and required tariff levels of various water supply
technologies, by county and by province.



S89 \ 1.2° C H I N A 106° *-nan 5 \sz 3    CHINA                                                                                                         Wuhonc
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT   IH (H   B E I
SOUTHERN PROVINCES
* Projec  Counties
xiZ  I\G0   Prefecur Sears
@   Province Copitols                                                               .    cone
P--roPrefectureodonin                           SCngghiO              Ao  NS- --
C' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~023'-
0  too  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  300og                               -epyn       lrlr
'80 %g? SICHUJAN        -'-2KILOMETE                                                   j .o. i<U NG ADQNG
f/W!    3OZh-ngdiS                 (    t4{  |                                                   > A   *Ch-i              xi   J   G
0           h.~~~~~~ 
0) Qi.. < ag 9                                                                                                                                            d.< 0 G   .;G
*.p.                                                          Sh..y..g 0~~~~~Gegng/..  Y:7JMIOH                     aOOCG
g6...                                                                                                                           0 |  Jcrtepn
W              I     \hw  Chg&Nonnrn                                                                   *.l    IrocrJecghu
Li                             d~~~~~~~~~~~~. -d.nve
S t <' 4 b '- 7t' - \.t X'_;w- / ' - ' X .yX ov . W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- d -ZI -lh  fTh WldB. G    id-
Lim-9 0,  GYAN R                                                                                                                               -h b-dVIET NAM  i  's
n.eee  ,onve  M ONGOLIArO
C           y       ~~~~~~~LAO  PEOPLE'S  Xt                            -6                                          ire .cL -                                         RE OPmc  MAS AP
: { t ~~~~~DEM.  REP.    .                        ts_,oJ-.rAre *CR% FPP19,r
V  -                                                                                                                                              NOVM6ER 199~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W1N



820                                                                                     --~ 5060                        1180                          IBRD 23276
C H I N A 
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT                                                                             4
NORTHERN PROVINCES
0 Project CountiesU.S S R 
0    Prefecture Seats
0    Prociece Copitals                                                                      -
r                  49~~~~~~1   Notionol Copolto                                          ..014%o
-      Prefecture Boundories                                                         a           0 Hoilor                     4
Proin,  uodundries                                  op%Ao ne *   i
+_.  X  lo _Internotionol Boundaries                                                                               EILONG-
/  \^<,_  ~~*Sedun.  \                                                                                                                             9                JIAN\G
o                                               /!0  100  200  300  400   500                                                                                                                                                 JIANG
KILOMETERS()Uunrl                                                                                             JLN
<-0!65 >\ /9 t > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JILIN
U. S. S. R.                           e fljlrO.                                                                                MCNLroogu-
*Wujiaq. (Cha.aji)                                   My   0   N'~ G    o   L  I A                                      Mabgnar Q~                    T    0I
400#P*^+*je r                  * Atksu    Kuca    OLuntoi             *nng
At     /huX                                     I A    N    G                                                                                                        H t         9
GMOYU                                                                 n ye ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rEh lm Hore o ID         0                EJI      SIN SHI
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Zqi                                                                                                               ) h  ^  7 HEBEI 
1  \                             >                                               9       t     >          /@ten           /       {     To~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hoiyu.n  %NShijo-h-9g 
3~~~~~~~~~~O   ( ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
-   ~~~~.8-.                                                                                           x ILO                                                     S ANXI                         Jm'
ARtEAOAP.5.. i         Yr JOMANP
~~~ 3~~~~~~~N~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~  reoqus ~ ~ ~     ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     Yn                                                                                                      6
Woolens R  'T E-i u-.ooohaJ;t'G)                        5                     Q    I N    G    H   A    I                                         O      hifen
eng;h ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ®  ogoo
U 1: ( W@zhngrt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IANGSU 
J  L9                                     l]    X i Z                         A                                                  HAN                               d         HU                   I         %1~-3,  AHUI32'
-Pn)wna>ndeir~ ~  ~ ~      ~~~TWA           rhi, -p helKe             1,41 lueo11   oI., M.                       S   I C   H    U   A    N                9                          uhn     9                    Hoshu
Im. fon                                                           -   Tmdoh*o SOnG  od is ,,r ,.Iy W.- .hyorlnul e oR I Wodg-
v m,.y  -y .~~~~~~~~~d-rt  .1 ~~~~1060                                                                                     ts
NOVEMBOER 1599



