Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2336 CHA
(Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 10, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2336 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 10, 1992, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Gansu Province, Guangxi Zhuang 
Autonomous Region, Hunan Province, Nei Mongol Autonomous Region, Xinjiang Uygur 
Autonomous Region and Yunnan Province (the Project Provinces and Regions) with the 
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available the proceeds of the Credit to the Project Provinces and Regions as provided 
in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and the Project Provinces and Regions;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Bank" means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development;
 
(b)
"CPOs" means the County-level Project Offices to be maintained pursuant 
to Section I of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(c)
"MOPH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Health;
 
(d)
"NPO" means the National Project Office to be maintained pursuant to 
Paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(e)
"PIP" means the annual Project Implementation plan prepared by each 
Project Province and Region pursuant to Section II, paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement; "PIPs" means all of the annual project implementations plans 
prepared by the Project Provinces and Regions for a given calendar year.
(f)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and the 
Project Provinces and Regions, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement;
(g)
"Project Provinces and Regions" means Gansu Province, Guaugxi Zhuang 
Autonomous Region, Hunan Province, Nei Mongol Autonomous Region, Xinjiang Uygur 
Autonomous Region and Yunnan Province; "Project Province and Region" and "Project 
Province or Region" means any one of the Project Provinces and Regions; 
(h)
"PPO" means the provincial- or regional-level project office to be 
maintained pursuant to Section I of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(j)
"Renminbi" means the currency of the Borrower.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventy-eight million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 78,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made, in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars in a bank, a special deposit account on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
Page  3
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 2002 and ending February 1, 2027. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2012 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by 
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some 
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at 
an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
Page  4
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Parts D.1 and E.1 of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and engineering 
standards and 
practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for such Parts of the Project; 
and
(ii)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement, the 
Borrower shall cause the Project Provinces and 
Regions to 
perform all of their respective obligations set forth in the Project 
Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable 
the Project Provinces and Regions to perform 
such obligations, and shall not take 
or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Parts D.1 and E.1 of the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall make a portion of the proceeds of the Credit available 
to each Project Province and Region on terms and conditions and in accordance with 
arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as otherwise provided for in this Agreement, the Borrower 
and the Association hereby agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) 
in respect of Parts A, B, C, D.2 and E.2 of the Project shall be carried out by the 
Project Provinces and Regions pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall, by April 30, 1992, open and maintain, or 
cause to be opened and maintained six separate revolving accounts, one for the benefit 
of each Project Province or Region, for purposes of financing local expenditures under 
the Project, including making an initial deposit from the Borrower's own funds into 
each revolving fund of an amount equivalent to three months' local expenditures under 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall make deposits, or shall cause deposits to be made, 
into each such revolving account on a monthly basis of amounts sufficient to maintain 
a balance equivalent to the initial deposit. Such deposits shall be made from the 
Borrower's own funds or the respective Project Province's or Region's own funds.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project or any part 
thereof, including without limitation: (i) maintaining such records and accounts with 
Page  5
respect to Parts D.1 and E.1 of the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project; and (ii) consolidating the audit of 
the records and accounts with respect to Parts A, B, C, D.2 and E.2 of the Project 
Provinces and Regions responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures under Parts D.1 and E.1 of the Project with respect 
to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account or payment 
out of the Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any Project Province or Region shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement; and
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that any Project
Province or Region will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
Page  6
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower's State Council shall have approved this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by each Project Province and Region, and is legally 
binding upon each Project Province and Region in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Page  7
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Gansu Province
(1)  Civil works              20,060,000
     under Part A
     of the Project
     in:
     (a) Gansu Province                         60%
     (b) Guangxi Zhuang                         40%
         Autonomous Region
     (c) Hunan Province                         35%
     (d) Nei Mongol                             10%
         Autonomous Region
     (e) Xinjiang Uygur                         45%
         Autonomous Region
     (f) Yunnan Province                        40%
(2)  Goods,                   49,720,000        100% of foreign
     equipment,                                 expenditures,
     materials and                              100% of local
     utility vehicles                           expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost)
(3)  Consultants'              1,150,000        100% of foreign
     services and                               expenditures
     training
(4)  Unallocated               7,970,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                78,900,000
Page  8
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
 
(b)
payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (1) unless the 
Association shall have received evidence, satisfactory to the Association, that 
actions required by paragraph 3 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve rural health and productivity 
in poor areas in the Project Provinces and Regions; (b) to develop long-term water and 
sanitation strategies to identify
priority investments at local levels; (c) to develop low-cost and sustainable systems 
for water supply, water treatment and sanitation; (d) to improve water supply, 
sanitation and health and hygiene education; (e) to establish and strengthen water 
supply, sanitation and health education institutions; and (f) to enhance replicability 
of Project activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Water Supply
 
1.
Construction of waterworks systems, communal faucet systems, wells with 
handpumps, rainwater collectors and related facilities.
2.
Provision of water quality testing equipment and utility vehicles.
 
3.
Development and dissemination of new water supply technologies through 
demonstrations and publication and distribution of technical manuals and guidelines.
Part B:
Sanitation
 
1.
Construction of household, communal and school latrines, animal enclosures and 
drainage ditches in selected pilot and demonstration villages in counties 
participating in the Project.
2.
Development of replicable sanitation programs.
 
Part C:
Health and Hygiene Education
 
1.
Provision of health and hygiene education to all Project counties through 
training of administrators and key community members at the provincial, county and 
village levels.
2.
Construction and equipping of training facilities and provision of materials and 
utility vehicles.
3.
Development and dissemination of health and hygiene education materials.
 
Part D:
Technical Assistance and Training
Page  9
1.
Provision of technical assistance and training in management, finance, 
procurement and health education at the national level.
2.
Provision of technical assistance and training in management, finance, 
procurement and health education at the provincial, county and village levels.
Part E:
Institutional Development and Project Management
 
1.
Provision of technical assistance and equipment in support of institutional 
development, project management and supervision at the national level.
2.
Civil works and provision of technical assistance and equipment in support of 
institutional development, project management and supervision at the provincial and 
county levels.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
for Parts D.1 and E.1 of the Project
1.
The Borrower shall maintain NPO through completion of the Project with 
facilities and functions satisfactory to the Association, staffed by qualified 
personnel in adequate numbers.
2.
The Borrower shall, by October 15th of each year during implementation of the 
Project:
(a)
prepare and provide to the Association for its review and approval, a 
detailed plan of training, institutional development and project management functions 
to be carried out, and a list of
equipment and materials to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit, under Parts 
D.1 and E.1 of the Project during the next calendar year; and
(b)
prepare a consolidated report of PIPs and provide such report to the 
Association for its review and approval.
3.
The Borrower shall publish manuals, acceptable to the Association, of design 
criteria for (a) non-piped water supply facilities and (b) sanitation facilities and 
shall disseminate the manuals in the Project Provinces and Regions in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall ensure that all non-piped and piped water supply systems 
financed under the Project shall be planned and designed in accordance with criteria 
contained in planning and design manuals acceptable to the Association, and that such 
systems be reviewed and approved in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association, including, without limitation, review and approval by NPO of all systems 
costing two million (2,000,000) Renminbi or more.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) - (3) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  10
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $7,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
said Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals in respect of the respective Parts of the Project should be made by the 
Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective 
General Conditions with respect to the respective Parts of the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for the Special Account shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
Page  11
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into said Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account, for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement 
including the General Conditions.
