Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2336 CHA
(Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
GANSU PROVINCE, GUANGXI ZHUANG AUTONOMOUS REGION,
HUNAN PROVINCE, NEI MONGOL AUTONOMOUS REGION,
XINJIANG UYGUR AUTONOMOUS REGION and YUNNAN PROVINCE
Dated April 10, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2336 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 10, 1992, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and GANSU PROVINCE, GUANGXI ZHUANG AUTONOMOUS REGION, HUNAN 
PROVINCE, NEI MONGOL AUTONOMOUS REGION, XINJIANG UYGUR AUTONOMOUS REGION and YUNNAN 
PROVINCE (the Project Provinces and Regions).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
seventy-eight million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 78,900,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that the Project Provinces and Regions agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Project Provinces and Regions, in consideration of the Association's 
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to 
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each Project Province and Region declares its commitment to 
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B, C, D.2 and E.2 of the Project 
in its territory with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, sanitation, health and engineering standards and practices 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Parts A, B, C, D.2 and E.2 of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Project Provinces and Regions shall otherwise 
agree, each Project Province and Region shall carry out Parts A, B, C, D.2 and E.2 of 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Each Project Province and Region shall carry out the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating respectively to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A, B, 
C, D.2 and E.2 of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Each Project Province and Region shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts 
A, B, C, D.2 and E.2 of the
Project in its territory, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Each Project Province and Region shall promptly inform the Association of 
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A, 
B, C, D.2 and E.2 of the Project in its territory, the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Credit, or the performance by such Project Province or Region of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each Project Province and Region shall maintain, or cause to 
be maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A, 
B, C, D.2 and E.2 of the Project of the departments or agencies of such Project 
Province and Region responsible for carrying out such Parts of the Project in its 
territory. 
(b)
Each Project Province and Region shall: 
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
Page  3
such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures under Parts A, B, C, D.2 and E.2 of the Project 
carried out in its territory with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, each project Province and Region 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account or payment 
out of the Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
the Project Provinces and Regions thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the 
following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance 
with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify the Project Provinces and Regions of this event.
Section 4.03. All of the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full 
force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
Page  4
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Gansu Province:
Gansu Province
Dong Gang Xi Lu
Lanzhou 730000
Gansu Province
People's Republic of China
Telex:
72148 FBOJT CN
For Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region:
Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region
Min Le Lu
Nanning 530013
Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region
People's Republic of China
Telex:
48150 GXFAO CN
For Hunan Province:
Hunan Province
Wu Yi Zhong Lu
Changsha 410001
Hunan Province
People's Republic of China
Telex:
98122 HPFAO CN
For Nei Mongol Autonomous Region:
Nei Mongol Autonomous Region
Xin Hua Da Jie
Hohhot 010055
Nei Mongol Autonomous Region
People's Republic of China
Telex:
85074 NMFAO CN
Page  5
For Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region:
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
Zhong Shan Lu
Urumqi 830041
Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region
People's Republic of China
Telex:
79146 FAOXJ CN
For Yunnan Province:
Yunnan Province
Wu Hua Shan
Kunming 650021
Yunnan Province
People's Republic of China
Telex:
64075 FAOYN CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of each Project 
Province or Region may be taken
or executed by Governor or Vice Governor of the Project Province or Region, or such 
other person or persons as Governor or Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and 
such Project Province or Region shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence 
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
GANSU PROVINCE,
GUANGXI ZHUANG AUTONOMOUS REGION,
HUNAN PROVINCE,
NEI MONGOL AUTONOMOUS REGION,
XINJIANG UYGUR AUTONOMOUS REGION and
YUNNAN PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Page  6
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Civil Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the 
Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part A.1 
hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Local Competitive Bidding. Civil works may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Local Shopping and Force Account. Civil works estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $400,000 per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association, except that minor civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$20,000 or less per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$13,500,000, may be carried out by force account. The total aggregate amount for civil 
works contracted under local shopping procedures and force account shall not exceed 
$63,000,000.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract procured in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in Part A.1 above, each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $500,000 or more per contract, and each contract for civil works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $2,000,000 per contract, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. When payments for such contract are 
to be made out of a Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that 
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the 
making of the first payment out of a Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. When payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Development 
Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis 
of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Page  7
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower and the Project Provinces and Regions in 
carrying out the Project, the Borrower and the Project Provinces and Regions shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
for Parts A, B, C, D.2 and E.2 of the Project
Section I:
Project Management
 
Each Project Province and Region shall maintain a PPO, and shall cause to be 
maintained CPOs, through completion of the Project, each with facilities and functions 
satisfactory to the Association, staffed by qualified personnel in adequate numbers. 
Section II:
Project Implementation
 
1.
(a)
Each Project Province and Region shall, by September 1 of each year 
during implementation of the Project, prepare and provide to NPO a detailed project 
implementation plan (PIP) for all activities to be carried out, and all equipment and 
materials to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit, under Parts A, B, C, D.2 and 
E.2 of the Project during the next calendar year.
(b)
Each PIP shall be retained by the Project Province and Region for review 
by the Association.
(c)
Each Project Province and Region shall carry out its PIP upon approval by 
the Association of its PIP.
2.
Each Project Province shall ensure that all non-piped and piped water supply 
systems financed under the Project shall be planned and designed in accordance with 
criteria contained in planning and design manuals acceptable to the Association, and 
that such systems be reviewed and approved in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association, including, without limitation, review and approval: (i) by the PPO of 
all systems costing more than Renminbi 500,000 but less than Renminbi 2,000,000; and 
(ii) by the CPOs of all systems costing Renminbi 500,000 or less.
3.
Each Project Province or Region shall make available a portion of the proceeds 
of the Credit for purposes of financing piped and non-piped water systems on the 
following basis:
(a)
funds made available shall be repaid to the Project Province or Region 
with a maximum maturity of twenty years, including a grace period of up to five years;
(b)
interest on such funds shall be paid at a fixed annual rate of 4% per 
annum; and
(c)
the Project Province or Region shall bear all foreign exchange risks.
 
4.
Each Project Province and Region shall cause charges for water provided by each 
piped and non-piped water systems financed from the proceeds of the Credit to cover:
(a)
the costs of operating and maintaining such system and a pro-rata 
portion, determined in a manner acceptable to the Association, of the costs associated 
with the repayment by the Project Province or Region of the proceeds of the Credit 
made available to the Province or Region (excluding any grants from the Project 
Province, Region or Counties to the beneficiaries of water systems), during the period 
repayments of the Credit proceeds are being made by the Province or Region; and
(b)
thereafter, the costs of operating and maintaining such system including 
Page  8
provision for depreciation on a basis acceptable to the Association.
