 THE UNIVERSITY OF ZAGREB
FACULTY OF CIVIL ENGINEERING




      S U M M A R Y OF
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STUDY
 FOR PUBLIC WATER DRAINAGE
      BIOGRAD NA MORU




   ZAGREB, NOVEMER, 2003

ORDERED BY: HRVATSKE VODE
             ZAGREB, Ulica grada Vukovara 220



CONTRACTOR: UNIVERSITY OF ZAGREB
             FACULTY OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
             ZAGREB, Fra Andrije Kacia Miosia 26



PROJECT NAME:SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STUDY OF
             PUBLIC DRAINAGE SYSTEM ­ BIOGRAD NA MORU




PROJECT STAGE:   STUDY



PROJECT
MARK:            120-S-220



PROJECT
MANAGER:         DOC. DR. SC. DAVOR MALUS




IN ZAGREB, NOVEMBER, 2003                     HEAD OF
                                  HYDROTECHNICS INSTITUTE:

                                   PROF. DR. SC. MARKO PRSI

                                              C o n t e n ts

1.    Purpose of Project Implementation................................................................... 1
2.    Legal and Administration Frames..................................................................... 1
3.    Description of Project ...................................................................................... 2
4.    Basic Data.................................................................................................. 6
4.1. Climatic Conditions ....................................................................................... 6
4.2. Oceanologic Data ........................................................................................     6
4.3. Geologic and Seismologic Data ....................................................................... 7
4.4. Bioecologic and Landscape Data ................................................................... 7
4.5. Sociologic and Urban Data .............................................................................. 8
4.6. Data on Protected Nature and Cultural Heritage ........................................... 8
5.    Overview of Environmental Impact.................................................................. 8
5.1. Impacts in Course of Plant Construction........................................................... 8
5.2. Impacts in Course of Plant Operation............................................................... 9
5.3. Impacts upon the End of Operation ....................................................... 11
5.4. Impacts in Case of Ecological Accidents...................................................11
5.5. Risk Assessment.................................................................................... 12
6.    Analysis of Alternative Solutions......................................................... 12
7.    Environment Protection Measures.......................................................... 13
7.1. Protection in Course of Construction......................................................13
7.2. Protection During the Operation............................................................ 15
7.3. Protection upon the End of Operation.................................................... 17
7.4. Protection in case of Ecological Accidents.............................................17
8.    Environment Management...................................................................... 18
9.    Program of Environment Status Monitoring...........................................21
9.1. Program of Seawater Quality Monitoring...............................................22
9.2. Program of Air Monitoring..................................................................... 23
9.3. Noise Level Monitoring.......................................................................... 23
9.4. Monitoring of Flora and Fauna.............................................................. 24
10. Enclosures.............................................................................................. 24
10.1. List of Authors of the Study................................................................... 24
10.2. References.............................................................................................. 25
      Laws and Other Regulations................................................................... 25
      Studies and Designs................................................................................ 25
10.3. Overview of Meetings............................................................................ 26

                                   S U M M A R Y




1. Purpose of the Project



In the area of Biograd na moru wastewater is discharged into the coastal sea
untreated or insufficiently treated, thus polluting the sea, endangering human health
and reducing biodiversity of the sea ecosystem.

By construction of a public drainage system, including a wastewater treatment plant
in Biograd, further pollution and deterioration of sea water quality will be prevented
in the greater area of the town.

Treated wastewater shall be let by a submarine outfall into the Vrgadski channel, to
dilute by means of a diffuser in the mass of cleaner sea water, and then the sea- and
wastewater mix will be conveyed to the open sea.




2. Legal and Administration Frames



The State Plan for water protection (Official gazette - NN 8/99) that is based on the
Water Management Act (Zakon o vodama) (NN 107/95), includes designing and
construction of public drainage systems, including plants and outfalls as measures for
prevention and reducing of water pollution. Treatment degree as well as limit value
of treated wastewater indicators are defined by Regulations on limit values of
indicators of hazardous and other matter in waste water (NN 40/99; 06/01). The
Regulations are in conformity with the Council Directive concerning urban Waste
Water treatment (91/271/EEC). The planned capacity of the Plant in Biograd is:

- 23.730 PE in the first construction stage
- 47.460 PE in the second construction stage

The Vrgadski channel, as receptor of treated wastewater of Biograd, is classified as
less susceptible area (according to the Operation Manual - Safeguard policies).

Art. 3, of the Regulations (NN 06/01), for stages I. and II. of the Plant construction
stipulates that:
              the first (I.) treatment degree is necessary.

Construction of the wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) in Biograd is in conformity
with the Convention on the Mediterranean Sea protection from pollution, as well as
with the Protocol on the Mediterranean Sea protection from pollution from the land
(International treaties, NN 1/90), whose signatory is Republic of Croatia.

According to The Law on Municipal Management (NN 36/95) local administration
units are liable to undertake measures to preserve and protect the environment and
provide for a continuous and high quality municipal services, in which, according to
Art. 3, of the Law, are included "drainage and wastewater treatment ".




3. Description of Project



The public drainage system of Biograd consists of:
- Network of sewers collecting wastewater from consumers,
- Wastewater main channels conveying wastewater from sewers to the plant,
- Pump stations with pressure piping by which wastewater is pumped from lower
   areas to higher ones where gravity running of sewers and main channels takes
   place
- Wastewater treatment plant,
- Submarine outfall through which treated wastewater is let to the sea.

General conception of the public drainage system is defined in the Preliminary
Design of the Biograd Riviera wastewater drainage (Water management
organization, 1990.).

According to the solutions specified therein, the main wastewater channels are
approximately in parallel with the coast line, at levels that enable gravity running
from the settlement Sveti Petar na moru (north-west) to Drage (south-east). Parts of
Biograd that are situated between the main channels and the sea shore, will be
provided with separate sewer network that gravitate to the pump stations of minor

sub-basins. From the pump stations wastewater will be, by means of pressure piping,
conveyed to the main channels.

The public wastewater system will be constructed in two stages.

In the first stage a part of the system would be constructed, from Turanj (north-west)
to Pakostane (south-east). In this period the central wastewater treatment plant in area
Kumenat would be constructed. Simultaneously, the submarine outfall would be
constructed from the cape Dominis toward the open sea of the Vrgadski channel. The
site of the outfall divides the whole public drainage system into two subsystems, i.e.
the north one and the south one.

In the north subsystem parts of drainage network already exist that could be
connected to the main channel of the first stage.

In the second stage extension of the System is planned, and this in the north
subsystem, from Turanj to Sveti Petar na moru; in the south subsystem, from
Pakostane to Drage.

Sites of different structures of the system are in conformity with the Physical Plan
documentation.

According to Regulations (NN 06/01) limit values of waste substance indicators, i.e.
minimum decrease of input wastewater load for the First stage of treatment amounts
as follows:




             Indicator                 Limit value             Minimum decrease of
                                                                      input load
Total suspended substance                  150 mg/l                       50


The Preliminary Design of drainage provides for possibility of increasing the number
of drainage system users, by connecting the tourist settlement Tustice to the north
Subsystem. In this case the Plant capacity would be 53.660 PE, hence, according to
the Regulations, both the first and the second degree of treatment would be
necessary. However, in conformity with interpretation of the State Water Protection

Act, the planned treatment degree must be installed in the plant when at least 70% of
total water consumers are connected. Until connecting all the 70% users, it is
possible to construct a plant of lower treatment degree.

The coastal sea of the Vrgadski channel is intended for bathe and water sports. For
this purpose the coastal zone 200 m wide is reserved, i.e. to distance from the coast
till which boats are allowed to sail at full speed. On the border line of that protected
zone sea water quality should satisfy the values of indicators defined by Regulation
on beach water quality standards (NN 33/96).

Taking into account the wastewater treatment effect of the Plant (stage I.), as well as
the initial attenuation on diffuser, and subsequent dispersion and micro-organism
perishing in wastewater and sea water mix, as well as the "natural pollution" of sea
water, values of different indicators in the protected zone will be as follows:



Indicator                                            Concentrations
                        Before the          After         At the border      Allowed
                           Plant          treatment     line of protected
                                                              zone
BOD-5 mg O2/l               220              165              2,20              2-4
COD mg O2/l                 440              330              4,40              4-8
S.S. mg/l                   250              107              0,097             0,0
b.c./100 ml                 108              107              308              500



Allowed concentrations are in accordance with the Regulations on water
classification (NN 77/98), that concerns sea protection from pollution originating
from the land and from the islands.

On the WWTP the following will be separated:
- Solids from liquids directly or indirectly, upon transformation of diluted substance
    into solids,
- Liquefied matter
- Gasses from water.

A part of solids in dispersed state, as well as the part developed upon liquid
transformation into solids, are called «wastewater sludge ".

Waste substance from the Plant should be preliminarily treated and finally deposited
in the manner that has no undesired impact on the environment.

In conformity with the Regulations on kind of waste (NN 27/1996), the waste from
grates and screens (key no. 190801) may be deposited on a sanitary landfill. Before
depositing, such waste shall be strained and put into plastic bags, thus preventing its
undesired impact on the environment.

Sludge treatment procedures are considered depending on possibilities of its final
tipping. In choosing the treatment procedure, the main objectives were set, i.e.
reducing of volume and a safe disposal, without any harmful impact on the
environment.

The Preliminary Design proposes that the treated sludge be finally deposited on the
sanitary landfill.

Sludge deposited on the landfill shall be previously stabilized.

In the Preliminary Design of the Plant, chemical stabilization of sludge is proposed,
by using limestone.

According to data stated in the Preliminary Design, construction costs for the public
drainage system in stage I. of construction, amount as follows:



- Main gravitation channels 25.370.000,00 kn
- Pressure pippins                5.127.000,00 kn
- Pump stations                   5.300.000,00 kn
- Treatment plant                24.100.000,00 kn
- Submarine outfall              12.000.000,00 kn




4. Basic Data

4.1.Climatic Conditions

Meteorological and climatic conditions at the Plant site were processed based on
measured and processed data of the Weather Reporting Station of Zadar.

Average annual air temperatures are measured and amount as follows:

- mean                            14,8oC
- highest annual maximum          38,6oC
- lower annual minimum           -11,5oC

Average annual precipitation: 949 mm.

Maximum precipitation in one day: 209 mm.

Maximum precipitation quantity is registered in autumn-winter period, especially in
October and November.

On the observed area wind velocities up to 2 Bf are predominant. It was noticed that
winds from N and NE directions prevail in winter and those of NW direction in
summer.



4.2.Oceanologic Data

Receiver of wastewater from Biograd is the Vrgadski channel.

The Vrgadski channel is situated in direction south-east ­ north-west between the
land and the island Vrgada. The channel is 10 km long, 3-4 km wide, its depth is up
to 35 m at its south-east part and up to 30 m at its north-west part.

Dynamics of the Vrgadski channel is typical for channel areas of the East Adriatic,
with predominating "two-layer" streaming. Average sea stream velocity amounts to
9 cm/s.

Thermocline appears in late summer, and by warming up of the sea it penetrates
deeper, to about 15 m in September.

Average sea transparency amounts to about 9 m measured by means of white Secchi
plate.

Distribution if phytoplankton species and the population density is usual for channel
areas.
Within benthos communities were not found species that indicate an increased
contamination or sea eutrophication.

Researches undertaken so far about nutritious salts in the area of the Vrgadski
channel show that their concentration is considerably lower than in the majority of
other seas and oceans.

Contents of bacteria of faecal origin is not above the limits allowed for the sea
envisaged for recreation.



4.3.Geologic and Seismologic Data

Greater area of Biograd lies on limestone formation.

In construction of public drainage system structures it is necessary to respect the
relevant regulations for construction in seismic regions. For the return period of 200
years maximum earthquake intensity is within 7o MCS scale.




4.4.Bioecologic and Landscape Data

The Plant site area belongs to parts of devastated ecosystem.

There are no special segments of biocaenosis on the location that should be
protected. Nevertheless, due attention shall be paid in construction of the Plant
structures, to avoid that the new structures disturb the general aspect of the area.



4.5.Sociologic and Urban Data

To the public drainage system will be connected wastewater of all the settlements,
including the tourist zones.

From the sociologic aspect, construction of public drainage system for all the
population and users of the system means a considerable improvement of life
conditions, therefore, a general acceptance of the proposed project may be expected.

The Plant would be situated out of the urban area, therefore it would be necessary to
construct the Plant connections to the utility infrastructure network.

Access by road is possible from the road Biograd - Drage.

For water supply of the Plant will be used the water supply service within area of
Crvena Luka.

Electric power supply will be provided by construction of a transmission line and a
substation, with connection to the existing transformer stations of Crvena Luka.



4.6. Data Concerning Protected Nature and Cultural Heritage

At the Plant location there are no registered cultural monuments or nature heritage, or
a registered archaeological site.

However, when constructing, it is necessary to pay attention to possible traces that
might indicate the existence of cultural monuments or archaeological finds..



5. Overview of Environmental Impact

5.1.Impacts in Course of the Plant Construction

Operation of machines and use of vehicles in course of the construction may
continuously or occasionally exceed the noise level allowed at the residential zone
border.

In course of earthworks and other works increased amount of dust may be produced,
that, in unfavourable weather conditions (wind) may pollute the atmosphere in the
surrounding area.

Due to machine operation, as well as due to traffic of vehicles, atmosphere may get
polluted by exhaust gasses.

By scattering material from vehicles to the road carriageway, as well as when tipping
the excess of excavated material on areas not prepared as landfill, soil may be
contaminated.

When opening new borrow pits for stone material for the structures, unfavourable
impacts on the environment may occur.



When digging ditches for the outfall, sea may get polluted and its turbidity increased;
also, small dispersed particles may be conveyed by streams and settled out of the
intervention area.

During the construction , trees and other vegetation may be cut.

When executing submarine works, parts of benthos communities will perish, and
nutrition of pelagic communities will be disturbed.

During the construction, and in particular when blasting, the neighbouring buildings
and utility installations may be damaged.



5.2.Impact in Course of the Plant Operation

Due to composition and concentration of waste substances in wastewater, odour-
forming compounds can appear in wastewater treatment installations as well as on
reloading pump stations. Odour-forming substances may be the following:
- Nitrogen compounds (ammonium, amines),
- Sulphur compounds (hydrogen-sulphide, mercaptans),
- hydrocarbons (solvents and others),
- organic acids.

Odour-forming compounds may appear on following parts of the public drainage
system:
- raw water pump station,
- grates, screens,
- sludge thickeners,
- sludge strainers,
- sludge pump stations,
- overspills from different tanks
- sludge storage and reloading tanks.
Odour-forming substances may also appear on deaeration hole of the submarine
outfall.

Wastewater percolation to the soil may occur on junctions of channel and tanks, as
well as on other points, due to cracks appearing on the structures, as well as from
operating surfaces at loading spots for solids, including sludge

Wastewater percolation into the sea is possible on submarine outfall cracks, as well
as on damaged parts of the piping.

Insects, in particular in warm period of the year, may appear on all still water
surfaces, in tanks, in wastewater pools, on operating or green areas.

Noise of higher intensity may occur in following parts of the system:
- pump stations,
- compressor station,
- sludge dewatering machines.

Flora and fauna of the existing land habitats will change. A part of existing macchia
covered surfaces shall be replaced by solid constructed surfaces. Due to changed
living conditions, some species will leave their former habitats.

On still water surfaces of some parts of the Plant (precipitation tanks) birds (seagulls)
may gather. Due to soiling, considerable pollution around the Plant is possible.

In close vicinity of dispersing unit, change of benthos communities is possible
Land value in immediate surroundings of the Plant may considerably decrease, as the
Plant is situated near the tourist zone.

The sea coast may be under influence of sea pollution and unavailable for planned
purposes (leisure, sports) including housing and tourist construction projects.

The coastal sea may be polluted and be unavailable for bathe, water sports; health of
the population could also be in danger.

Tipping of waste substances from the Plant could provoke undesirable consequences
for the environment, such as odours, insects, hazard for people and animals.




5.3. Impacts After the End of the Plant Operation

Wastewater treatment plants are solid structures, therefore no impact is expected in
the period after the end of its operation.



5.4. Impact in Case of Ecological Accidents

Due to "Force Majeure" (destructive earthquakes, war destruction) parts of the public
drainage system may be destructed. Wastewater would be let untreated to the sea,
and watercourse quality state would decrease, up to former state, and perhaps the
pollution may be even more serious.

Due to "stoppage " of different parts of the Plant wastewater treatment efficiency
may be lower, consequently, this would result in increased sea pollution, for a brief
period, in the Vrgadski channel.

The submarine outfall may be damaged and wastewater discharged to inappropriate
spots.

If high density polyethylene pipes are used for submarine outfall construction, the
piping may from time to time rise from the seabed and float on the surface.

Failure on electric installations or on electric machines may cause minor fire,
considering the construction material and the manner of constructing the plant and
the pump stations.

Gasses let out from wastewater surfaces have corrosion effect on unprotected parts of
metal, which may provoke disturbances in efficiency, thus resulting in an ecological
accident.



5.5.Risk Assessment

Probability of an ecological accident due to "Force Majeure" in peacetime
circumstances is relatively low.

Accidents may be expected from time to time, due to "stoppage of operation".
Consequence for the environment are assessed to be of moderate intensity and short
duration, so that, as a general assessment it may be defined as «acceptable level of
risk »



6. Analysis of Alternative Solutions

In the Design Documentation an alternative solution was considered, by which
construction of several public drainage systems was envisaged, as follows:
- Sveti Petar na moru,
- Sveti Filip i Jakov for village Turanj,
- Biograd na moru with tourist settlement Crvena Luka,
- Pakostane,
- Drage.

For the first two drainage systems discharge was planned into the Pasman bay,
defined as a susceptible area (according to the Operation Manual - Safeguard
policies) so that it may be necessary to envisage in future the Stage II. of treatment.
Other three systems would discharge treated wastewater into the Vrgadski channel
that is "less susceptible" area.

In the Designing Documents construction costs were estimated, as well as operation
and maintenance costs for both alternatives.

It was estimated that the construction costs of public drainage system would amount
as follows

- Solution with one system 102.966.000,00 kn
- Solution with five systems 106.744.000,00 kn

Annual operation and maintenance costs are estimated as follows
- Solution with one system 6.075.000,00 kn
- Solution with five systems 6.302.000,00 kn.



These alternatives were further evaluated from the viewpoint of environmental
protection, and it was estimated that the solution with one system and outfall into a
"less susceptible" area is more favourable than the solution with five systems where
wastewater from two of them (although treated) would be let into a "susceptible
area". It is to be pointed out that at sites where the outfalls Sveti Petar and Sveti Filip
i Jakov are planned, sea depth is 14 m, and that, according to the provisions of the
State Plan for water protection, such outfalls cannot be taken as "submarine outfalls"
but as "coastal outfalls".

From sociological viewpoint, two outlets in the Pasmanski channel would be a less
favourable solution, the more so considering a series of islets in the channel and the
possibility that mixed wastewater and seawater appear on the surface, and reach the
island and islet beaches that are recreation spots in summer. Namely, with a
relatively small sea depth one cannot expect a significant stratification of the water
column.

After evaluation of the proposed alternatives from sociological and economic
viewpoints, as well as considering the environmental protection and the possibility
of construction in stages, it was concluded that the solution with one drainage system
is more acceptable, so that this solution was proposed for further elaboration of the
designing documentation.



7. Environment Protection Measures

7.1.Protection in Course of Construction

The Contractor shall elaborate a Design for site noise protection.

The Contractor shall undertake protection measures that prevent or reduce producing
of dust, and atmosphere pollution, including water spraying of dusty material that
could produce dust during its transport.

Machines and vehicles used in construction shall be under permanent supervision as
to quantity and quality of exhaust gasses, all in conformity with allowed values.

It is not allowed to excessively load vehicles with excavated material as this may
cause scattering during the transport. It is not allowed to tip material on illegal
tipping areas.

The Contractor shall use existing quarries when constructing the structures; in case of
new quarries permits shall be obtained for their opening.

For excavation of outfall duct, the Contractor shall apply such method of work that
reduces to minimum creation of water turbidity. When blasting, the Contractor shall
use a method that has minimum negative impact on biocenosis in the sea. Excavated
material from the seabed can be transported to the open sea, in conformity with
permission given by the competent authorities. These works shall not be undertaken
during the tourist season, but, for instance, in winter and in early spring.

During the construction, the Contractor shall protect all the trees and plants whose
cutting is not indispensable for the structure location.

Submarine works shall be undertaken on imperatively restricted seabed surfaces.

In executing the works, the Contractor shall protect the existing structures and
installations from pollution. In case of cutting one of the utility installations,
including a home connection, the Contractor shall, within the shortest time, repair
such damage, according to instructions and under the supervision of the relevant
municipal service.

Upon completion of the construction, the Contractor shall clean the site, and bring
all the surfaces into previous state, according to the landscape design.

7.2. Protective Measures During Operation

For environment protection from odour-forming compounds it is necessary to cover
at least the following parts of the System:
- raw water and sludge pumping stations
- grates and screens,
- sludge thickeners,
- sludge strainers,
- areas where waste from grates and strained sludge are stored.
In enclosed premises under-pressure shall be kept, and polluted air shall be cleaned
prior to its letting into the atmosphere.
According to By-law on recommended and limit values of air quality (NN 10/96) on
the bordering line of the Plant site the following values shall not be exceeded (24 h):
       Ammonium                   70 µg/m3
       Hydrogen-sulphide           2 µg/m3
       Mercaptans                  1 µg/m3

In landscaping, a sufficiently wide strip of high coniferous trees shall be planted by
the Plant border, which will contribute to environment protection from odours.

To protect the environment from possible odours, it is necessary to install at the
deaerating hole an active coal filter at air outlet from the hole.

For ground water protection from wastewater percolation, ducts, holes and tanks
shall have watertight joints. By calculation and design, appearance of cracks on
wastewater and waste substance tanks shall be prevented, taking also into account the
undesirable impacts of earthquake.
For all working and traffic surfaces water discharge system shall be provided for, and
regular cleaning-washing of these surfaces granted.

Treated wastewater shall be discharged into the sea taking care that in every moment
designed hydraulic attenuation is achieved. In choosing the pipe material for the
outlet, water tightness and strength of joints shall be imposed. In a shallow sea, up to
the depth of wave impact, to be defined by calculation, the sea outfall shall be dug
into a trench in the seabed, and concreted, provided that the upper trench surface is
not higher than the surrounding seabed. The free part of the piping shall be secured
from possible pulling by fishnets or anchors.

Protection against insects, in addition to above stated measures, shall also be
provided as early as designing stage of the Plant, by preventing creation of "dead
angles", i.e. still water surface.

Water retention on all the surfaces, including communication areas shall be
prevented, by adequate grades and gully traps.

For noise protection, all the machines producing intensive noise shall be placed in
enclosed premises. The structure design shall include checking of noise level and
impose installation of additional protection material.
At the Plant site border the highest allowed noise level by day is 55 dBA, and by
night 45 dBA, i.e. not more than the former state, according to the Regulations on
highest allowed noise level in places where people work and live (NN 37/90) art. 6.
item 3.

For flora and fauna protection around the Plant, landscaping design shall be
elaborated. Consequently, prior to starting the Plant operation, the whole area shall
be landscaped (according to approved design) in order to prevent creation of a
"cultural desert ".

For hygienic work conditions, and for keeping the Plant surroundings clean,
construction measures shall be applied to reduce birds (seagulls) presence on the
Plant.

Structures of the Plant shall be of appropriate form. Some of the structures shall be
roofed, with aeration and purification of exhaust gas. Further measures to be
undertaken due to decreased value of the area are: maintaining cleanliness and, in
general, tidiness of the whole area with the aim to considerably attenuate possible
aesthetically unpleasant appearance.

It is not allowed to let treated wastewater by the coastal outfall.

At the end of the submarine outfall a sprayer shall be provided, for the purpose of
auto-cleaning procedure, i.e. initial attenuation and subsequent spraying. Before
letting water into the sea, the Stage I of wastewater treatment shall be applied. It is
not allowed to chlorinate wastewater. Wastewater concentration values at the Plant
outlet shall not exceed the values allowed for Stage I of treatment, according to

Regulations on limit values of hazardous and other substances in waste water (NN
40/99, 06/2000).

On the borderline of sea intended for bathe and water sports, seawater quality and in
particular micro-organism values shall be in accordance with allowed values defined
by the Regulation on beach water quality standards (NN 33/96).

Waste substance from grates ­ screens shall be collected in enclosed tanks and daily
transported to a tip of first category, in conformity with Regulations on waste
management (NN 123/97).
Stabilized sludge, free from water surplus, shall be collected in separate tanks and
transported to a tip of first category (according to Regulations on waste management)
in case it is not used in agriculture.



7.3. Measures After the End of Plant Operation

Special measures for environment protection are not envisaged, since the wastewater
treatment plants are structures designed for permanent use.



7.4. Protective Measures in Case of Ecological Accident

To alleviate consequences of ecological accidents due to "force majeure"
construction of the plant shall be designed in minimum two independent
technological process or operable structures, interconnected by a set of channels and
gates.

Power supply to the plant and pumping stations shall be provided from at least two
independent power sources.

To alleviate and prevent consequences of ecological accidents occurred due to the
plant "stoppage", in addition to above stated measures, the plant shall have installed
system of continuous monitoring to control water quantity and quality at inflow and
discharge.

Treated water shall be let through the submarine outfall to the Vrgadski channel, to
provide for an additional auto-cleaning of water.

Fire extinguishers shall be provided on adequate places as fire fighting measures in
case of fire on electric installations and machines.
In addition to these fire fighting measures, outdoor hydrant network shall be provided
for on the whole Plant area, in conformity with Regulations on technical standards
for fire fighting hydrant network.

For protection against corrosion by exhaust gasses and vapours, all metal parts on the
plant and pumping stations shall be made of corrosion resistant metal, i.e. protected
against corrosion.




8. Environment Management



According to the Water Management Act, the state and local waters management is
the duty of Hrvatske vode. Within the frame of water protection, duty of the
"Hrvatske vode" includes: monitoring and establishing quality of water, organization
of the State water protection plan implementation, harmonization of water protection
plans in local administration units with plans of other persons concerning investment
into water protection and follow-up of their realization, as well as undertaking
measures for preventing water pollution and for sanitation of polluted waters.

Based on the Law on Municipal Management, local administration units deal with
public utility activities, among which operation and maintenance of public drainage
system, including wastewater treatment.

As wastewater treatment plant does not exist in Biograd, there is no experience in its
management.

Public drainage system management means, in an acceptable manner, simultaneous
and appropriate environmental management.

Public drainage system management includes a series of procedures and actions
referring to:

- financing,
- selection of equipment,
- environment protection,
- staff training,
- public relations.

Public drainage system management is dependent on its financing. In general, there
is a possibility to construct a plant partly by own means, including the use of water
protection funds, then, in greater or smaller part by loans granted by local, foreign
and international creditors, by giving concession for the system construction, or, in
general, by applying the BOT procedure
In any case, total annual operation costs, i.e. costs of construction, operation and
maintenance shall be known in advance, i.e. prior to starting the construction, so as to
evaluate the reality and prudence of construction of each part of the system. It is
necessary to point out that the construction price of the public drainage system
should include all indirect and direct works, it means the costs indispensable for the
system operation.

Maintenance of equipment and devices is essential for a safe operation of a public
drainage system. For this reason, it is necessary, as early as the time of choosing the
equipment, to take into consideration the safety and simplicity of the offered
equipment, as well as the possibility of spare parts procurement, and in general
servicing by the equipment supplier.

The investment maintenance may be organized in own workshops or contracted with
an appropriate company, which may include the equipment supplier, especially
considering the spare parts procurement. Technological process management means
such organization of the work that grants in any moment that all the operations and
procedures develop toward reaching of the system construction objectives. This
includes monitoring of water input and outlet from different processes, as well as
monitoring of sludge quality and quantity.

For every operation and procedure, the management shall be defined in advance,
both for the case of a regular flow of substances and energy, as well as for the case of
important oscillations, emergencies and stoppage. Continuous records of all input
and output values on different parts of the system will serve, among other things, for
improvement of technological process management.

The system management means the maintenance of environment monitoring sub-
system, and especially monitoring of air, sea and ground water, as well as noise.

Results of control and monitoring of different segments of the environment shall be
kept, and be at disposal of authorized services.

Technicians charged with system operation and maintenance, and in particular that of
pumping stations, shall be professional and trained for such jobs. Regardless of the
fact who will be charged with management, it is necessary, as early as the
construction, and then at the operation beginning, to start with professional training
of the staff to be charged with maintenance and control of public drainage system.

Special skill is required from technicians that will work with machines. Permanent
training of the staff, including shorter courses, is a prerequisite for a good starting of
the Plant and pumping stations. For health protection of the employees, as well as for
their better look, all the employees shall wear during the operation working clothes,
and, if necessary, protective glasses, gloves and other protection articles. To maintain
the health conditions, the working clothes and protection equipment shall be stored in
a room close to the room where workers wash and change upon the end of their shift.

The employees shall be acquainted with all protective measures at work, with
possible dangers, and with the manner of acting in case of unforeseen and
undesirable events. At least of one employee shall be trained to offer the first aid.
Courses shall be held from time to time about giving the first aid and about safety at
work. This will enable working with minimum of accidents.

Considering the susceptibility of public regarding the environment protection, it is
necessary to provide for a continuous participation of the public in the system
management procedure. As early as taking decision about construction of the system,
participation of public shall be secured.

One should face the fact that education level of citizens as regards the technological
process of treatment is relatively low. Under the influence of general tendencies for
preserving own health, as well as for a healthy environment, citizens show a keen
interest in activities related to environment protection, and oppose to every
disturbance of their closer and greater surroundings.

For all these reasons, co-operation with the public is necessary, therefore citizens
should be allowed to express their wishes and standpoints regarding the improvement
of the system management, i.e. protection of the environment.

One of the current manners of addressing to public is the issuance of special
booklets, sketched overviews, as well as keeping of lectures and courses.

Within the system maintenance it is necessary to have one person trained for public
relations. It is necessary to define the manner of collecting comments and proposals
from citizens about operation of the Plant, and securing a feedback to the public
about measures undertaken concerning their proposals.



9. Program of Environmental Monitoring



In course of construction as well as during the operation of the public drainage
system, it is necessary to monitor and observe the environmental situation, so as to
detect a possible unfavourable and undesirable impacts.

Results of such monitoring will be used for possible additional environmental
protection measures, in case of increased requirements for quality level of certain
parts of the environment, or in case the planned protection measures are not efficient.

This Study includes a proposal for general environment monitoring program.
Separate implementation programs shall be prepared within the System Design.
Further, this Study does not include programs of observing and measuring applied for
technological process of the Plant, but only the impact of the plant operation on the
environment.

Program of environmental monitoring shall include the following parts:
- sea water,
- air,
- noise,
- flora and fauna.

9.1. Program of Seawater Quality Monitoring

Program of seawater quality monitoring has for the purpose observing impact of
submarine outfall functioning.

Two monitoring stations are designed:
- at 300 m distance from the outfall toward the coast,
- at 200 m distance from the coast

Following indicators shall be measured:
- pH
- temperature (oC)
- salinity ()
- limpidity (m)
- suspended matter (mg/l)
- BOD-5 (mg O2/l)
- COD ­ Mn (mg O2/l)
- Dissolved oxygen (mg O2/l)
- Mineral oils (mg/l)
- ammonium (mg N/l)
- nitrites (mg N/l)
- nitrates (mg N/l)
- total nitrogen (mg N/l)
- total phosphorus (mg P/l)
- chlorophyll "a" (mg/m3)
- total coliform bacteriae (b.c/100 ml)
- faecal coliforma (f.c/100 ml).

Test samples for water shall be taken once a month, throughout the year.

According to the good laboratory practice, it is necessary to preserve the samples, i.e.
to minimize their change, from sample taking time to their testing. For testing of
water quality, standard methods shall be applied, i.e. those prescribed by the
Regulation on water classification (OFF.GAZ. 77/98) and other methods prescribed
by the State Institution for standardization.

Monitoring of sea water quality shall start at least one year prior to starting the outfall
construction, to enable comparison of these data with the sea water state upon
starting of submarine outfall operation.



9.2.Program of Air Monitoring

Impact of the Plant operation on ambient air quality shall be monitored in the station
situated close to the south border of the Plant.

Following indicators will be observed according to the Program of monitoring the
Plant impacts on the air:
- Wind direction and velocity (m/s),
- Air temperature (oC),
- Humidity in air (%),
- rainfalls (mm/min),
- ammonium (mg NH3/m3),
- hydrogen-sulphide (mg H2S/m3),
- mercaptans (mg C2H5SH/m3).

Samples will be tested applying the standard methods, i.e. according to the methods
prescribed by the State Institution for Standardization.
Minimum number of samples is 4 per year, uniformly distributed in course of the
year.

Monitoring of atmosphere situation shall start at least one year prior to starting the
Plant operation, in order to detect impact of other air polluters in the Plant
surroundings.



9.3.Monitoring of Noise Level

Provided that appropriate protective measures are applied, noise level is not to
increase in the area of the Plant or of pumping stations above the values allowed for
residential zones, according to art.6. of the Regulations on maximum allowed noise
level in populated areas and environment.

To confirm the above assumptions, it is proposed to measure noise level at the south
border of the Plant. Noise level (dBA) measurement would be made by day and by
night, during work days. Four measurings a year are proposed, starting one year
before the Plant is put into operation and continuing five years thereupon.



9.4.Monitoring of Flora and Fauna

It is not expected that the Plant will have an unfavourable impact on flora and fauna
of communities in its greater surroundings.
However, to avoid subsequent discussions about "hazards" for ambient living world
caused by the Plant operation, it is proposed that special monitoring programs should
be prepared, and that such monitoring starts after the Plant construction. During the
construction, physical conditions of habitats will change in the Plant area, and the
biocaenosis shall also undergo changes.

By landscaping of the Plant area, new conditions for habitats shall be created, as well
as new biocaenosis.

It is proposed to prepare a program that would include:
- Exploring growth and development of plants in the Plant area,
- Exploring of benthos (composition and numerousness of species in biocaenosis)
    on the section from the cape Gnali on island Pasman to the cape Dominis on the
    shore.

Sample taking, the subject of testing as well as its methods shall be defined according
to an exhaustive program of biologic monitoring.



10. Attachments

10.1. List of Authors of the Study

The present Summary is based on the Environmental Impact Study for the Plant
Kumenat, and was prepared in 1995 by:
· Hidroconsult d. o. o. Rijeka
       mr. sc. Petar Marijan
       I. Brozovi, B.C.E.

      R. Stigli, B.C.E.
      D. Hlavica, B.C.E.



10.2. References

Laws and other Regulations
- Environmental Protection Act, Off.Gaz. 82/94., OFF.GAZ. 128/99.
- Water Act, Off.Gaz. 107/95.
- Public Utilities Management Act, Off.Gaz. 36/95.
- Waste Act, Off.Gaz. 34/95.
- Air Protection Act, Off.Gaz. 48/95.
- National Water Protection Plan, Off.Gaz. 8/99.
- Regulation on Environmental Impact Assessment, Off.Gaz 59/2000.
- By-law on Recommended and Limit Values of Air Quality, Off.Gaz. 101/96.
- Regulation of Water Classification, Off.Gaz. 77/98.
- Regulation on Beach Water Quality Standards, Off.Gaz. 33/96.
- By-law on Hazardous Substances in Waters, Off.Gaz. 78/98.
- Regulation on the Highest AllowedNoise Levels in Places where People Work
   and Live, Off.Gaz. 37/90.
- Regulation on Agricultural Land Protection against Harmful Matters, Off.Gaz.
   15/92.
- Regulation on Kinds of Waste, Off.Gaz. 27/1996.
- Regulation on Waste Management, Off.Gaz. 123/1997.
- Regulations on Limit Values of Indicators of Hazardous and Other Matter in
   Waste Waters, Off.Gaz. 40/99, 06/01.
- Council Directive of 21 May 1991 concerning urban waste water treatment, O. J.
   No.L. 135/40, 1991.
- The Herald of the City of Zadar, No. 11/95.

Studies and Designs
- Bali, Z.; Danici, J.; Ostoji, Z.:Water protection from pollution in integral water
   management ­ Directive for implementation, Hrvatska vodoprivreda, special
   edition, January, 2002.

- Drzavni Meteoroloski Zavod (Central Weather Forecasting) - Sector for
   meteorological researches (1994.): Air streaming in region of Biograd na moru,
   Zagreb.
- Hidroprojekt-ING (2003.): Drainage system and wastewater treatment Biograd na
   moru, Zagreb.
- Institut za oceanografiju i ribarstvo (Institute for Oceanography and Fishing
   Industry) (1977.): Research of oceanographic-biologic properties of coastal sea of
   the Biograd riviera with regard to installation of water discharge systems, Split.
- Institut za oceanografiju i ribarstvo (1994.): Oceanographic properties of the
   Pasman channel, Split.
- Teh-projekt (1978.): Study of wastewater drainage, treatment and disposition in
   the riviera Biograd, Rijeka.
- Teh-projekt (1989.): Study of wastewater drainage, treatment and disposition of
   the rieivera Biograd, Rijeka.
- Vodoprivredna radna organizacija za vodno podrucje dalmatinskih slivova (Water
   management organization for Dalmatian basins area) (1990.): Wastewater
   dewatering in riviera Biograd- Preliminary Design, Split.
- Zoning Institute (1985.): Physical plan of municipality of Biograd na moru,
   Zadar.



10.3. Overview of Meetings

The Study was examined by the Commission for evaluation of environmental impact,
appointed by the Ministry of environmental protection and physical planning.
The Commission members were representatives of:
- Ministry of environmental protection and physical planning,
- Hrvatske vode (Croatian Waters)
- Public Health Institution,
- Local administration units from the intervention area
- Independent scientist and experts from environment protection domain.

After the first meeting, the Study was corrected and amended, and the Commission
brought the decision about
- Public consideration on the area of Biograd na moru for a 15 days period

After the public consideration, the Commission had a new meeting and considered
the comments received following the public consideration.

Considering the amended and corrected Study, the Commission brought a Decision
by which it proposes to the Ministry of environmental protection and physical
planning to approve the Project realization.

