Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Report No: AC570
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/15/2004
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: CROATIA                                 Project ID: P065416
Project: COASTAL CITIES POLLUTION CONTROL        Task Team Leader: Manuel G. Marino
PROJECT
Authorized to Appraise Date: March 9, 2004       IBRD Amount ($m): 40.00
Bank Approval: May 18, 2004                       IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: ECSIE                              Sector: Sewerage (70%); General water, sanitation
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  and flood protection sector (30%)
Status: Lending                                  Theme: Pollution management and environmental
health (P); Other environment and natural resources
management (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The overall Project Development Objective is to improve the quality of Croatia's Adriatic coastal waters to
meet European Union (EU) ambient quality standards in the participating municipalities, in a financially
and operationally sustainable manner, through (i) support for the strengthening of the institutional
arrangements for financing and management of wastewater management in Croatia and (ii) financing of
wastewater collection, treatment and disposal infrastructure in selected coastal municipalities. The Project
will also provide technical assistance and financing for engineering services, improvements in the
environmental monitoring system for the assessments of Project results and support of Project
implementation.
The Government has selected the Adaptable Program Lending (APL) approach for the sector, rather than
addressing investment needs city-by-city and project-by-project. The sector policy issues, under the overall
objective of complying with the environmental "acquis communautaire", are basically identical throughout
Croatia's urban areas and the model for addressing them was established with the Municipal
Environmental Infrastructure Project (MEIP). The work carried out during Project preparation has resulted
in a comprehensive "Coastal Cities Pollution Control Program" (the Program) approved by the
Government on March 2003 and on the adoption of the Program's Operational Manual. This Manual
covers all aspects of Program implementation, from appraisal methodology to the procedures to
mainstream social and environmental safeguard policies. The Government's strategy is to initiate the
Program in larger urban areas not yet served with adequate wastewater management infrastructure, and to
expand horizontally, and if necessary vertically, in a programmatic manner. Additionally, the Government
has established an environmental regional onlending mechanism for this Program through the creation of a
Special Purpose -Subsidiary Company (SPSC) of Hrvatske Vode (HV), which will be in charge and
responsible of the implementation of the Program.
An APL approach will provide a framework for planning and implementing the medium-term investment
program needed to comply with requirements for EU accession by helping HV, through the SPSC, to take a
phased approach to planning and identifying funding sources, while building the necessary regulatory,
monitoring, and control capacity.  Individual investment subprojects in each Municipal Water and
Sewerage Company (MWSC), as has been the case until now, would have made such planning more
difficult to conceptualize and implement, and a "projectized" approach would have been less efficient from



2
ISDS
a management perspective.
Thus, an APL, with triggers designed to deepen the sectors financial, regulatory and management policies
and practices, was the logical choice for the next intervention. In order to acknowledge the speed with
which the Government and urban utilities can implement the envisaged measures and adapt and refine the
implementation procedures and safeguards, the APL is designed in three Phases. Phase I eligibility criteria
concentrate on developing the financing framework and achieving operational autonomy and financial
stability in participating MWSCs through the adoption of adequate tariff structures and levels and
appropriate investment scope, while proceeding to Phase II requires that (i) adequate monitoring and
control capacity is in place; (ii) Phase I investments have been efficiently implemented; (iii) policy reforms
in line with the objective of complying with the relevant environmental "acquis communautaire " have been
adopted; and (iv) relevant sector institutions have demonstrated their ability to implement the Program and
extend its coverage to the rest of the coastal areas.
I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
To support the Government's Program, the first phase of the APL will comprise a sector investment loan
using the Government's Environmental Infrastructure Financing Facility (EIFF), to be implemented through
HV's SPSC, to finance wastewater treatment and discharge infrastructure, sewerage expansion and
technical assistance, with SPSC acting as technical implementing agency. HV will facilitate subproject
preparation and implementation and coordinate funding requests to the Bank and other sources. The SPSC
would have overall technical responsibility for Project implementation (including procurement) and specific
financial responsibilities for investments in infrastructure for wastewater treatment and discharge, while
MWSCs would have financial responsibility for investments in sewerage expansion. The attached maps
identify the municipalities that have been identified as candidates to participate in the Project and in the
overall Program and present subproject engineering and technical designs for the systems of the
municipalities of Krk, Opatija, Biograd and Zadar. These have been identified as candidates for the first
year of Project implementation and appraised as part of Project preparation. Overall investments for Phase
I have been estimated on the basis of the investment proposed for these municipalities' wastewater
management systems and for those in the municipalities of Orebic, Korcula, Vela Luka, Trpanj, Rijeka,
Makarska, and Ston.
Consistent with the scope and objectives identified above, the Project would have three components:
1. Coastal Environmental Infrastructure Component ($64.80 million for Phase I of the APL), to
finance.
* Investments in the construction/expansion of sewerage networks; and
* Investments in main collectors, pumping stations, wastewater treatment plants and submarine outfalls.
The financing of investment would be based on the following principles:
a)     Wastewater treatment and disposal facilities would be financed by HV through the SPSC, using a
combination of credit, resources from the Water Fund, specific Project surcharges, and targeted
subsidies from Government budgetary transfers.
b)     Sewerage and related infrastructure will be financed by a combination of municipal sources, credit,
Project surcharges and potential contributions, as direct subsidies, from HV and/or the Central



3
ISDS
Government.
As discussed above, the operation is being prepared within a dynamic institutional setting. The Government
is revising the role of HV, consolidating it as the agency responsible for wastewater treatment facilities
throughout Croatia. The financing mechanism 'for the Project would reflect the success of the ongoing
Bank-financed operations (namely the MEIP in Split and the Eastern Slavonia Reconstruction Project), and
at the same time the aims to advance on the policy agenda for developing sustainable sub-national credit
facilities in Croatia. As in the Slavonia Project, the Ministry of Finance would be the Project's borrower.
Project funds will be on-lent to establish the EIFF within the SPSC, which will on-lend part of these funds
to municipal (or regional) water and sewerage companies.
Under the proposed Project, the approach would build upon HV's experience to handle the financial
management of the on-lending activities with the support of the Bank, which will appraise all subprojects
on an annual basis. All procedures for subproject preparation and the criteria for subproject appraisal have
been defined ex-ante and included in the Program's Operational Manual, which the Bank has reviewed and
found to be satisfactory. Detailed engineering and technical designs for the first year of the Project,
including environmental and social assessments, financial models, and tariff schedules agreed-upon with
municipal officials, have been completed prior to loan appraisal.
In addition to an annual appraisal of the work program during Project supervision, the guiding principles
for subproject evaluation and eligibility include:
a)     A financial analysis, taking into account all sources of financing (project and HV surcharges,
direct Government subsidies, and tariff revenues) demonstrating that funds will be sufficient to
cover Operation and Maintenance (O&M) costs, loan repayment, and depreciation.
b)     Location permits. Location permits are required by Law in Croatia before any public work can be
executed. In order to obtain a location permit the developer has to produce an Environmental
Impact Assessment (EA) approved by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical
Planning (MoE). Compliance with this requirement is a condition of eligibility for all subprojects
in subsequent years.
c)     Construction Permits. Following the granting of Location Permits, Construction Permits are also
required by Law in Croatia. One of the requirements for getting Construction Permits is the
approval of the main design, which has to include proof of ownership and/or land usage
permission.
d)     A least-cost analysis for each subproject, reviewing all options considered for achieving EU
quality standards in bathing and shellfish growing waters in the vicinity of the affected areas.
e)     Priority in terms of receiving water quality. Region-wide criteria developed during Project
preparation define clear investment objectives and, based on these objectives, the Government has
adopted a prioritized plan that ranks wastewater treatment investments in terms of their cost
effectiveness and sensitivity of receiving waters.
f)     Utility preparedness in terms of its ability to contribute to capital cost, management and operation
capacity and financial viability. In this context, an assessment of water supply and sewerage
operations is also included to ensure that they meet reasonable efficiency standards.



4
ISDS
2. Institutional Strengthening and Program Management Component ($4.69 million for Phase I of the
APL), to finance equipment, technical assistance, training and studies to:
*   Devise and implement an institutional framework for water pollution control;
*   Complete engineering designs and environmental and social assessments for investments after the first
year of the Program and supervise Project investments;
*   Ensure the capacity of the SPSC for Project implementation, evaluation and monitoring, including
financial management; and
*   Strengthen and bring utilities to reasonable levels of management, operational efficiency and financial
viability and potentially facilitate private sector participation.  Technical assistance for the
strengthening of municipal water utilities would be provided on a grant basis by HV through the SPSC.
3. Strengthening of the Coastal Waters Monitoring Network ($8.75 million for phase I of the APL) to
finance equipment, civil works and technical assistance (see Annex 12 of the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) for details on the existing capacity and programs and on the proposed approach) to:
*   Improve the capacity of the MoE network of laboratories for environmental monitoring to assess the
impact of the Program on coastal waters quality
*   Improve the capacity of HV's laboratories to assess the individual discharges of municipalities and
industries, determine the overall pollutants load contributed by Croatia to the Adriatic sea and evaluate
and control the efficiency of the financed infrastructure
*   Provide decision-makers with a critical and reliable environmental monitoring tool allowing to measure
compliance of Croatian coastal waters with relevant EU standards and to adjust the level of wastewater
treatment to reach compliance through targeted and phased investments.
The first part of this Component, to be implemented by MoE, would be financed on a grant basis from
Government funds and loan proceeds, through direct budgetary transfers from the Ministry of Finance.
The second part of the Component would be implemented by the SPSC on behalf of HV.
Main Project costs for the APL Phase I are summarized in the attached table below.
Components:
1. Coastal Environmental Infrastructure Component
a) Sewerage extension and rehabilitation
b) Wastewater treatment and disposal infrastructure
2. Institutional Strengthening and Program Management Component
3. Strengthening of the Coastal Waters Monitoring Network
a) Strengthening of the Environmental Monitoring Network
b) Strengthening of the Wastewater Discharge Control Network
Contingencies
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key enviromnental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or
critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will be located in Croatia's Adriatic coast. It will include both mainland and island sites.
By design, no subproject sites will be located in the proximity of any protected areas or sites of critical
natural habitats, as has been confirmed during the EA, at which time the possible existence of culturally or



5
ISDS
socially sensitivity areas have been assessed.
B. Check Environmental Classification: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
Comments: By appraisal, selected subprojects identified for the first year of project implementation will be
confirmed, based on the satisfactory completion of required documents, including EA, SA, etc. The EAs, SAs,
Resettlement and Acquisition Policy and environment section of operational manual have been disclosed in
country and in Infoshop prior to project appraisal departure.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on Q for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
F-                         Policy                                  Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)        0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                           0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  * Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*     0 Yes 0 No
Section H - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
General Impacts
The Project will have substantial environmental benefits with a direct impact on the populations of the
Project area, which counts approximately 300,000 permanent residents in the coastal region (in the
participating municipalities) as well as seasonal tourists which increases population to 850,000 in the
summer months. By focusing on this region, the Project aims to have an important impact on preserving
the environmental resources on which tourism growth and its capacity for employment generation is based.
Major investment in infrastructure in priority areas and "hotspots" would help to both improve water
quality in key areas and to develop replicable models for sector development. Investing in wastewater
treatment is expected to have a direct and positive impact on improving and maintaining the quality of
bathing and fishing waters. The associated economic benefits are expected to be significant, and meeting
the EU water quality requirements for accession is an articulated policy goal of the Government. In
addition, Program investments are expected to have positive effects on the viability of the fisheries and
aquaculture sectors, and detailed investment design will take into account the impact on local fisheries and
areas of shellfish cultivation.



6
ISDS
The project triggers four safeguards: environmental assessment; projects in international waters, cultural
property and involuntary resettlement (land acquisition). None of them pose special risks, as they are, and
will be, managed systematically, using local experience and local standards that are acceptable to the Bank.
All safeguard policies triggered by the project can be adequately dealt with given the good practice in
Croatia and the institutional capacity to enforce it.
Environmental Impacts:
The Project is expected to have positive environmental impacts which relate to: (i) improvements in public
health through better water quality of bathing and shellfish growing areas; (ii) enhanced environmental
conditions as a result of more reliable wastewater treatment; and (iii) increased viability of the fisheries and
aquaculture sectors.
Potential negative impacts generally associated with wastewater projects will be adressed for each
subproject, as part of the EA, through an Environmental Management Plan (EMP). In particular, potential
negative impacts generally associated with wastewater projects are:
*      Impacts due to construction practices, e.g. noise, dust
*      Degradation of sensitive aquatic environment due to discharge of wastewater
*      Degradation of neighborhoods or receiving water quality from sewer overflows, treatment works
bypasses, or treatment process failures
*      Public health hazards in the vicinity of discharges
*      Odors, noise and emission of volatile organics from treatment processes
*      Sludge disposal issues
*      Accidental destruction of cultural heritage sites.
In addition, due to the nature of the Project, the EMPs will give special attention to the impact on receiving
waters of the proposed discharge infrastructure and to the arrangements for the proper disposal of sludge
and solid waste residues that might be produced in the treatment process. Potential negative impacts of the
Project will be addressed by prevention or mitigation measures. Additionally, the EMPs will detail the
environmental monitoring program requirements. Project Component III, Strengthening of Environmental
Monitoring Networks, will support HV and the MoE in improving the coverage, reliability and accuracy of
the monitoring networks currently operating.
Project social development outcomes and summary of key social issues relevant to projet objectives
The principal social development outcomes of the Project are improved health and sanitary conditions for
residents and tourists and increased incomes from tourism by protecting water quality and improving the
wastewater management infrastructure for expanded tourism development. By all accounts, this is a very
high priority throughout the target area. Tourism is vital for the current economy of Istria, the Dalmatian
Coast and Adriatic Islands and future development requires action now to maintain the quality of the
environment that attracts visitors and to ensure that the expansion of tourism does not despoil that
environment. Proper wastewater management is key to current and future growth in all of the coastal
areas. Some of the major population centers have wastewater management systems, most of which are
being upgraded or need upgrading and expansion.  Many of the poorer, less densely populated
municipalities, which generally have more fragile environments, have been unable to invest in the
infrastructure necessary to manage wastewater properly, however. Moreover, systems need to deal with
huge seasonal fluctuations in use, meaning that a small resident population essentially needs to invest in



7
ISDS
infrastructure that serves their own needs as well as those of tourists, who outnumber them many times
over. Consequently, smaller and poorer municipalities are caught in a vicious cycle: they cannot afford the
immediate investment needed to meet their own needs, let alone systems that are designed to serve
short-term summertime populations, and the lack of systems constrains their ability to increase tourist
revenues that would help pay for the systems.
This Project will enable municipalities to break out of that cycle, providing financial support to build or
complete systems quickly, rather than forcing them to rely on piecemeal funding that never allows them to
complete the task at hand. The Project will help municipalities find cost-effective solutions to their
wastewater management needs either individually or jointly. In all municipalities, the issue has long been a
subject of concem and prolonged discussions between citizens, local administrations, MWSCs and HV,
some of which have continued for two decades or more. Water utility tariffs are expected to be increased
as the result of the Project, but no subprojects will be included without confirming that least-cost solutions
are adopted and that a financing mechanism is used to avoid that the anticipated increases impose a
significant burden on the population. The subproject specific SA will assess the willingness and ability to
pay of the local population. In all instances, one objective of cost recovery will be to ensure that as much
of the investment and operations and maintenance costs as feasible and practical are recovered through
direct and indirect levies on tourists. The cost of connecting to the new system also needs to be assessed
and addressed, if it poses a noticeable burden on people. For people who currently use septic tanks, new
water and wastewater tariffs are expected to be lower than their existing costs of maintaining and emptying
septic tanks.
Subprojects may trigger either OPN 11.03, Cultural Property, or OP 4.12, Involuntary Resettlement. In
the first case, the principal issue is chance finds; in the second case, the acquisition of land or
rights-of-way. In both cases, Croatia has standard procedures to deal with the issues that are satisfactory
to the Bank, detailed in the Project Operational Manual and, in the case of OP 4.12, clarified in the Policy
Framework agreed by the Bank (see Annex 13 of the PAD).
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
None expected
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
In addition to the positive impacts described above, the rehabilitation of the environmental infrastructure in
the coastal area will ensure that Project benefits reach beyond the participating municipalities, as improved
environmental conditions will enhance prospects for the growth of tourist and fishing activities and improve
prospects for the multiplier-effect growth and private sector investment which are expected to accompany
the recovery in the tourism sector. As the Country Assitance Strategy for Croatia explicitly recommends,
the Project addresses the need for investments in infrastructure to support the development of the tourism
sector, which is seen as a key to national growth in the medium term.



8
ISDS
Further, the operation is expected to have important environmental and sector-wide benefits as the Project
will assist Government authorities to consolidate their long-term vision for the rehabilitation and efficient
provision of water services by sustainable local utilities. The Project will clearly enhance the capacity of
local authorities to finance and manage water sector infrastructure during Project implementation and in the
future. The Project is expected to have a direct impact on the viability of local utilities in the water sector.
Furthermore, the construction/expansion of sewerage networks in participating municipalities, along with
the general environmental conditions' improvement in the coastal area, will have significant benefits on the
municipalities themselves, since the opportunity to connect new areas to the sewerage network will
facilitate municipalUurban expansion, increase the land value of connectable areas and reinforce the
potential for economic development of the municipality.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Operational Manual
The Project Operational Manual has provisions to screen for safeguards-EA, Involuntary Resettlement
and Cultural Property-and provide detailed guidance for compliance with the safeguards, as appropriate.
In particular, to ensure that O.P. 4.01 requirements are met, the Project's Operational Manual contains a
separate volume (Volume III) on "Guidelines for Environmental Assessment of subprojects." The
Guidelines lay out the procedures of the EA in a format satisfactory to the World Bank. Further, the
Project Operational Manual also includes instructions for conducting and making productive use of SAs in
each subproject. These SAs provisions are simple and straightforward, offering a standard format to be
modified according to local characteristics. These provisions are based on the experience of local
consultants who carried SAs in the six municipalities that were identified as likely prospects for inclusion
in the first year of the Project: Biograd, Krk, Markaska, Novigrad, Opatija and Zadar. Both portions of the
Operational Manual have been reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank. Again, as the provisions in
each case are consistent with Croatian laws and practices, they require no additional measures beyond
presenting sunmuary reports (EA, Land Acquisition, Cultural Asset Management) to the Bank for review.
Compliance will be monitored closely during supervision.
Environmental Impact Assessments:
During Project preparation, each of the subprojects identified for inclusion in the first year of the Project
(Opatija, Krk, Zadar, and Biograd) has obtained a location permit that is required by Law in Croatia before
any public work can be executed. As part of this process, as required by the MoE, an EA has been
prepared using standards that are acceptable to the Bank. The process to obtain a location permit also
includes consultation consistent with the World Bank's requirements. This involved communities and local
stakeholders on the selected solution and setting of the proposed infrastructure.
Previous (2001) World Bank analysis of Croatia's environmental impact assessment system has shown it to
be consistent with EU-EA standards, and highly compatible with World Bank's O.P. 4.01. Therefore,
during Project preparation one of the pilot subproject EAs (Zupa Dubrovacka) was translated into English
and found satisfactory by the ECA safeguards team. On the basis of this assessment, it was agreed that
only the executive summaries of the other first year EAs would be required for review by the World Bank
before appraisal. Full EAs for all subprojects in the first year of Project implementation have been



9
ISDS
completed, and these EAs Executive Summaries have been submitted to the Bank together with evidence of
their public disclosure.
Each EA includes an EMP to address specific local conditions. The Guidelines incorporated in the
Operational Manual include details on the preparation of the EMP which describes the mitigation measures
for each potential negative environmental impact as well as the responsible party for ensuring the measures
are taken.
To be eligible for financing under the Project, subprojects in subsequent years will need to have approved
location penmits, thus ensuring that an EA is prepared and approved by the MoE.
During Phase I of the Project, in conjunction with Component III - Strengthening of the Coastal Waters
Monitoring Network - the MoE will prepare a SEA which will analyze the cumulative impacts of the
Program on coastal water quality. As part of the monitoring system component, the SEA is included in the
triggers for Phase II.
Social Assessments
SAs, institutionalized in the Project, identify anticipated site-specific social development outcomes and, as
appropriate, recommend steps that need to be taken to ensure that they are achieved. Each SA identifies
social development issues in each subproject and create a series of benchmarks: current water and
wastewater costs (including both sewage tariffs and/or septic tank management costs); current wastewater
management practices; willingness and ability to pay for improvements; expectations regarding costs, levels
of service and technologies; infonnation levels; and potential "not in my back yard" issues. In addition,
each SA will recommend ways to mitigate anticipated problems and to monitor specific issues that need
special attention.
As indicated above, during preparation, SAs have been carried out in six municipalities that were identified
as likely prospects for inclusion in the first year of the Project ( Biograd, Krk, Markaska, Novigrad,
Opatija and Zadar). For each subproject, a SA has been and will be included as good practice, based on
the experience of the MEIP, which illustrated the problems that can arise in infrastructure development
from inadequate consultation and poor public information. These SAs focused on a range of issues
common to water and wastewater projects, as well as specific issues suggested by the experience in MEIP.
The SAs also highlighted the need for the Project to help HV, MWSCs and local administrations improve
their communications and public information skills. In this respect, the Project design will take into
account that the subject of communications and public infonmation varies from one site to another, from
simple information about plans and implications for cost and repayment to more complicated information
about technologies and technological choices, particularly in municipalities where residents and officials
are already convinced that they need treatment levels and equipment that may not need and cannot afford.
Results of these SAs strongly support the Project concept and indicate that some of the issues that emerged
during the implementation of MEIP may not be common in other areas. In each site, wastewater
management (water quality) was uniformly recognized as a paramount issue for residents, the reputation of
the area and for future development of tourism. Without question, it is a priority concem. In all cases,
there is a high level of interest in the Project and high levels of expectations. The results of the SAs have
been presented to local stakeholder workshops prior to appraisal, followed by a draft of SAs provisions that
were included in the Operational Manual.
Involuntary Resettlement (land acquisition)



10
ISDS
The amount of land acquisition that will be required varies considerably, affordability and willingness to
pay for improvements is also a variable, and the level and quality of information about altematives and
current plans also varies from one site to another, but is generally acceptable. Based on the sample of these
six municipalities that were identified as likely prospects for inclusion in the first year of the Project, it is
hard to predict the extent to which investments will be subject to the "not in my back yard" response that
appeared in MEIP, but this is not expected to represent a problem for implementation if the agreed
consultation and dissemination procedures are followed. In this regard, a Resettlement/Land Acquisition
Policy Framework was prepared for the Project, based on existing requirements and standard practices in
Croatia, which were also demonstrated in the MEIP and reflected in the Policy Framework and field
experience of the Rijeka Gateway Project. The Policy Framework has been reviewed and accepted by the
Bank, which requires a siniple land acquisition plan for each subproject to be submitted to the Bank for
review. Implementation will be monitored carefully during supervision.
Proiects in Intemational Waterways
According to OP 7.50, notification will be sent to Albania, Serbia and Montenegro, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, Slovenia and Italy regarding the Project's content and proposed investments to be financed.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders in the Project are HV, MWSCs, local administrations, citizens, civil society
organizations, such as environmental groups, tourist enterprises, the media and contractors. Investments
will be demand driven, thus municipalities and MWSCs will play key roles, in collaboration with HV.
Relationships between the three groups are already well established. Although different parties may have
differing views on topics such as costs, technologies, and other technical questions, they all have
well-defined common interests that the Project will enable them to realize. Citizens have varying degrees of
awareness regarding the progress of planning investments and, use both private and public means to raise
questions and make their opinions known to decision makers. For the most part, however, there is little
systematic public consultation, and public infonmation is erratic, thus there is considerable scope for
improving the official/public interface. Public consultation is required as part of the EA process, and
public notification is required for construction plans and system alignments, and both requirements will be
honored in the preparation and implementation of subprojects. SAs will also offer another opportunity to
improve public information and identify fruitful communications strategies for each subproject. To assist
municipalities and MWSCs in carrying out these requirements, and improving their standard practices, the
SPSC will either include an experienced communications specialist on its staff or retain the services of an
experienced public relations firm to help the SPSC and other stakeholders improve their communications
and public infonmation skills and practices.
E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is detennined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.
]SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional nsks in
management of one or more safeguard areas
] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[  S3. -No safeguard issues
[X] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar



11
ISDS
projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
issues.



12
ISDS
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 11/1/2002     12/8/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             3/31/2003     11/28/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                              3/31/2003     12/29/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive  Not Available  Not Available
Directors (For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 11/1/2002     12/15/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             3/31/2003     Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop                              3/31/2003     Not Available
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted bv       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Manuel G. Marino                            1/9/2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Stan Peabody/Person/World Bank         10/11/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Rita Klees/Person/World Bank           09/24/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Jane E. Holt                             10/23/02
Sector Manager                Sumter Lee Travers                          10/22/02



