Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7226 HR 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Coastal Cities Pollution Control Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
HRVATSKE VODE 
 
Dated July 2, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7226-HR 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HRVATSKE VODE 
(HV). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic 
of Croatia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan to the 
Borrower in the amount of forty million Euro (Euro 40,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that HV agrees to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and HV the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will 
be made available to HV on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS HV, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional 
terms have the following meaning: 
 
(a) 
“EMP” means environmental management plan prepared for each 
eligible Sub-project in accordance with the provisions of the Safeguard Policies;  
 
(b) 
“Environmental Assessment” means an analysis of potential 
environmental impacts and appropriate mitigation measures carried out for each eligible 
Sub-project in accordance with the provisions of  the Safeguard Policies; 
 
(c) 
“Implementation Agreement” means an agreement, to be entered into 
between HV and SPSC pursuant to paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(d) 
“Land Acquisition Plan” means a plan to be developed for a Sub-project 
which includes acquisition of land for proposed investments, and which is prepared in 
accordance with the provisions of the Safeguard Policies; 
 
(e) 
“Resettlement Plan” means a plan to be developed for a Sub-project 
which involves reallocation of residents, and which is prepared in accordance with the 
provisions of the Safeguard Policies; 
 
(f) 
“Safeguard Policies” means policies and guidelines, incorporated in the 
Operational Manual, setting forth requirements and procedures for environmental 
screening of Sub-projects, for conducting Environmental and Social Assessments and 
preparation of EMPs, Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plans for Sub-projects; 
 
(g) 
“Social Assessment” means an analysis of target population and social 
risks carried out for each eligible Sub-project in accordance with the provisions of the 
Safeguard Policies; and 
 
(h) 
“Sub-loan and Implementation Agreements” means agreements to be 
entered into between the SPSC and an eligible MWSC for lending the proceeds of the 
Loan for financing a Sub-project under Part A of the Project. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) HV declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall and shall cause 
SPSC to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
HV shall make available the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to 
time to Categories (1), (2) and (3) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
the Loan Agreement under the Implementation Agreement, under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
(c) 
HV shall exercise its rights under the Implementation Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, HV shall not 
assign abrogate or waive the Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and HV shall otherwise agree, HV shall carry out the Project, 
through SPSC, in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) HV shall carry out or cause to be carried out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, HV, through SPSC, shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and HV, a plan for the future operation of the 
Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
HV on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. HV shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, HV shall not take or concur in any 
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) HV shall and shall cause SPSC, at the request of the Bank, to 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of 
their obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
HV shall and shall cause SPSC to promptly inform the Bank of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by HV of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
 
Management and Operations 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 3.01. HV shall and shall cause SPSC to carry on their operations and 
conduct their affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental 
and business practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. HV shall and shall cause SPSC to, at all times, operate and 
maintain its equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and business practices. 
 
Section 3.03. HV shall and shall cause SPSC to take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
Section 3.04. During Project execution, HV shall maintain SPSC, as its 
subsidiary, with a corporate structure, staffing and other resources adequate for enabling 
SPSC to carry its implementation responsibilities under the Project and shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive by-
laws and charter of SPSC without the Bank’s prior 
concurrence. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) HV shall and shall cause SPSC to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
HV shall and shall cause SPSC to: 
 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
(or other period agreed to by the Bank) commencing with the 
fiscal year in which the Effective Date falls to, and including the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan is made, 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
Page  6
-
5
-
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
Sectio
n
4.02.
(a) Without limitation upon HV’s reporting obligations set out in 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, HV, through SPSC, shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report (FMR), in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the 
period not covered by the previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall enter into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of HV 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify HV thereof. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For Hrvatske vode: 
 
Ulica grada Vukovara 220 
 
100000 Zagreb 
 
Republic of Croatia 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
Facsimile: 
 
(385-1) 6155-910 
(385-1) 6118-570 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
document required or permitted to be executed under this Agreement on behalf of 
HV, may be taken or executed by the General Director of HV or such other 
person or persons as the General Director shall designate in writing, and HV shall 
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authentic 
specimen signature of each person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Zadar, Republic of Croatia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/  Anand K. Seth 
Authorized Representative 
 
HRVATSKE VODE 
 
By  /s/  Davorin Androsic 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of    
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) Prequalification
Bidders for works estimated to cost more than Euro 10,000,000 equivalent, shall 
be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost            Euro 
10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Borrower. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Works estimated to cost less than Euro 1,000,000 and goods estimated to 
cost less than Euro 500,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  
 
(b) 
The following provisions  shall  apply to goods and works to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph: 
 
(i) Procedures
The public bidding method shall apply to all contracts. 
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette and in at least one widely circulated national daily 
newspaper allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the 
preparation and submission of bids. 
 
(ii) 
Assessment of Bidders’ Qualifications
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or 
complex works contracts, invitations to pre-qualify for bidding 
shall be advertised in the Borrower’s Official Gazette and at least 
one widely circulated national daily newspaper a minimum of 
thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for the submission of pre-
qualification applications. Minimum experience, technical and 
financial requirements shall be explicitly stated in the pre-
qualification documents, which shall be determined by a 
‘pass/fail’ method, not through the use of a merit point system. 
Where pre-qualification is not used, the qualifications of the 
bidder who is recommended for award of contract shall be 
assessed by post-qualification, applying minimum experience, 
technical and financial requirements which shall be explicitly 
stated in the bidding documents. 
 
(iii) 
Participation of Government-owned Enterprises
Government-owned enterprises located and operating on 
the Borrower’s territory, shall be eligible to participate in the 
bidding only if they can establish, to the Bank’s satisfaction, that 
they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under 
commercial laws and are not a dependent agency of the 
Page  11
-
10 - 
Borrower’s Government.  Said enterprises shall be subject to the 
same bid and performance security requirements as other 
bidders. 
 
(iv) Bidding 
Documents
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard 
bidding documents for the procurement of goods, works or 
services, as defined in the paragraph 1.1 of the Guidelines, which 
shall contain draft contract and conditions of contract acceptable 
to the Bank. 
 
(v) 
Bid Submission, Opening and Evaluation
(A) 
Bids shall be submitted in a single envelope containing 
the bidder’s qualification information, technical and 
price bids, which shall be opened simultaneously at the 
public bid opening. 
 
(B) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the 
deadline for submission of bids. The name of the bidder, 
the total amount of each bid and any discounts offered 
shall be read aloud and recorded in the minutes of the 
public bid opening. 
 
(C) 
The evaluation of bids shall be done in strict adherence 
to the monetarily quantifiable criteria specified in the 
bidding documents and a merit point system shall not be 
used. 
 
(D) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only 
for not more than thirty (30) days. No further 
extensions should be granted without the prior 
approval of the Bank. 
 
(E) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders 
having submitted the lowest evaluated substantially 
responsive bid. 
 
(F) 
No preference shall apply under National Competitive 
Bidding. 
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
(vi) Price 
Adjustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g., more 
than eighteen (18) months) shall contain an appropriate 
price adjustment clause. 
 
(vii) 
Rejection of All Bids
(A) 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited 
without the Bank’s prior written concurrence. 
 
(B) 
When the number of bids received is less than two, 
re-bidding shall not be carried out without the 
Bank’s prior concurrence. 
 
(viii) Securities
Bid securities should not exceed 2% (two percent) 
of the estimated cost of the contract; and  performance 
securities -- not more than 10% (ten percent). No advance 
payments shall be made to contractors without a suitable 
advance payment security. The wording of all such 
securities shall be included into the bidding documents and 
shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
 
2. International 
Shopping
Goods of standard specification estimated to cost less than Euro 100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than Euro 100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. 
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
 
Page  13
-
12 - 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (a) all contracts for goods and works to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B above; and (b) the first contract for 
goods and the first contract for works procured in accordance with the procedures 
referred to in Part C.1, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first contract for goods procured in accordance with 
the procedures referred to in Part C.2 above and the first contract for works procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part C.3 above, the following procedures 
shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract 
under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  14
-
13 - 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
 
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of      Section II 
of the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Quality-based 
Selection
Services estimated to cost less than Euro 250,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Services of standard nature, including audit and simple design, estimated to cost 
less than Euro 200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than Euro 100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for services including Project management 
support and tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  15
-
14 - 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every six (6) months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of Euro 100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of Euro 50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review 
and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  16
-
15 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Implementation Program
 
1. 
HV shall cause SPSC to implement Parts A, B, and C.2 of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual and of this Agreement and, for 
the purposes of carrying out Parts A, B, and C.2 of the Project, HV shall make available 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2), and (3) in the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement to SPSC, as a loan on 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, under Implementation Agreement, and 
which shall include, 
inter alia
,
provisions whereby:  
 
(a)  
SPSC shall be required to: (i) implement the Project in accordance with 
the Operational Manual and the provisions of this Agreement; (ii) verify fulfillment of 
the eligibility criteria in respect of participating MWSCs and proposed Sub-projects 
under Part A of the Project, including compliance with environmental requirements of the 
Operational Manual; and (iii) review Environmental Assessments, Social Assessments, 
EMPs, and where applicable, Land Acquisition Plans and/or Resettlement Plans for each 
Sub-project and establish their compliance with the Safeguard Policies.  
 
(b)  
SPSC shall be required: (i) to maintain the Project financial records and 
accounts and to make said records and accounts available to the Borrower; (ii) to 
supervise the implementation of the Project including supervising the progress of each 
Sub-project; and (iii) to prepare and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank quarterly 
reports on the progress of implementation of the Project, not later than forty-five (45) 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter; and the first such report shall be furnished to 
the Borrower and the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first 
calendar quarter after the Effective Date. 
 
2. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, HV shall cause SPSC to 
provide to eligible MWSCs goods, works and services for approved Sub-projects on the 
basis of Sub-loan and Implementation Agreements to be entered into between SPSC and 
each MWSC under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, and which shall include, 
inter alia
:
(a) 
a description of the Sub-project together with the cost thereof; 
 
(b) 
the implementation schedule and implementation arrangements for the 
Sub-project;  
 
(c) 
the degree to which cost sharing, in accordance with the principles set 
forth in the Operational Manual, shall be required to be made by the MWSC with respect 
to the financing of the Sub-project, including provisions for transfer by MWSC of  
collected surcharges and other payments to a special designated account of SPSC; 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
(d) 
the obligation of SPSC and MWSC to enable representatives of the 
Borrower and the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, to visit the facilities or other 
activities to be financed under the Sub-project contract; 
 
(e) 
the terms and conditions of the Sub-project Loan provided to MWSC by 
SPSC for the financing provided for the Sub-project;   
 
(f) 
compliance of the Sub-project with the Safeguard Policies; 
 
(g) 
compliance of MWSC, during execution of the Project, with financial 
performance ratios, including but not limited to: (i) operating ratio of not less than 1.1; 
(ii) current ratio of not less than 1.2; and (iii) the interest coverage ratio of not less than 
1.5; and 
 
(h) 
obligation of MWSC to have their financial statements audited, 
according to international standards, by qualified independent auditors on annual basis 
and to submit reports to SPSC and the Bank not later than May 31 of each year during 
execution of the Project. 
 
3. 
HV shall cause SPSC to obtain the Bank’s prior approval for the first four Sub-
projects, and for each Sub-loan and Implementation Agreements which involves 
acquisition of land and/or resettlement of residents, and thereafter shall cause SPSC to 
submit for prior approval to the Bank the annual investment plan. 
 
4. 
HV shall and shall cause SPSC to: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Borrower and the Bank, on or about September 1, 2005, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and  
 
(c) 
review with the Borrower and the Bank, by January 1, 2006, or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
 
