AB622
Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name                CROATIA - COASTAL CITIES POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
Region                      Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                      Sewerage (70%); General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (30%)
Theme                        Pollution management and environmental health (P); Other environment and
natural resources management (P)
Project                     P065416
Borrower(s)                 GOVERNMENT OF CROATIA
Implementing Agency(ies)    HRVATSKE VODE (HV)
Address: Ulica Grada Vukovara 220, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia
Contact Person: Jaksa Marasovic, General Manager
Tel: +385 1 6155 820    Fax: +385 1 6155 910      Email:
marasovic@voda.hr
Ministry of Environmental Protection, Physical Planning and Construction
Address: Zagreb, Croatia
Contact Person: Roko Andricevic, Assistant Minister
Tel: +385 1 61 06 578    Fax: +385 1 61 12 073     Email:
roko.andricevic@mzopu.hr
Environment Category        F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
Date PID Prepared           January 12, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date         March 9, 2004
Bank Approval Date          May 18, 2004
1. Country and Sector Background
In contrast to water supply, wastewater management is deficient and water pollution constitutes a problem
in a number of Croatia's coastal municipalities. Coverage and quality of water supply services in Croatia
ranks high compared to other countries in the region. However, coverage for sewerage is only around 40
percent in households and 40 percent from industry and less than 12 percent of all collected wastewater is
being treated. A total of 82 treatment plants are currently in operation, though most of these plants suffer
from operation and maintenance (O&M) problems and will need to be upgraded to meet European Union
(EU) environmental standards as part of Croatia's anticipated accession to the EU.
The degradation of seawater quality in some parts of Croatia due to inadequate discharges of raw sewage
has already resulted in visible problems, including localized eutrophication and phytoplankton blooms, as
well as less-visible contamination of the marine life by organic and non organic micro-polluting substances.
(source: Nasci et al. 1998). Obviously, water pollution has a negative effect on ecology, public health,
tourism and fishing industries. Water pollution affects some of the main population centers of Rijeka,
Sibenik and Zadar, and importantly, many small and medium municipalities along the coast and on the
islands. Although some efforts are already under way to address the problem (particularly in Dubrovnik,
Split / Kastela Bay and Pula), the cost of no action could be disastrous for the potential of further growth
in the tourist industry, on which Croatia's development depends to a great extent, and for other related
industries such as aquaculture.
Basic background for the Program was developed in the comprehensive integrated study on Split / Kastela
Bay, which was undertaken between 1988 and 1992 as part of the Coastal Areas Management Programme



2
PID
(CAMP) within the framework of the Mediterranean Action Plan (MAP). This study, prepared with the
financial support of the World Bank, produced data and information on major pollution problems and
ecosystem functioning, allowing fonnulation of policies and definition of technical solutions, as well as a
feasibility study for the integrated wastewater collection, treatment and disposal system.
In addition, the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), which was recently completed by the
Government with extensive public participation, concludes that protection of Croatia's 1,780 km-long
Adriatic Sea coastline and 1,185 offshore islands must be a priority for both ecological and economic
reasons. Although much has already been accomplished, the NEAP recognizes that needs are still great -
especially in the area of water pollution control.
The recently prepared water sector note identifies three main sector issues that should also be addressed
when tackling the problems of water pollution in the Adriatic coastal areas:
*   Although Municipal Water and Sewerage Companies (MWSCs) operate reasonably well, there is
ample room for efficiency gains in terms of better management, improving financial performance,
reducing water consumption, making water systems operate more efficiently, and reducing leakage.
Reforms and improvements in this area are essential to allow MWSCs to undertake the large
investments required in wastewater management and guarantee their sustainability.
*   The lack of physical infrastructure is matched by an inadequate institutional framework, both to create
incentives for investing in wastewater treatment infrastructure and to provide overall policy direction.
A sound institutional arrangement is needed to provide strategic guidance and fulfill the role of a
national regulator for the sector. Existing institutional and policy arrangements are not conducive to
ensure that scarce resources for wastewater treatment can be employed most economically, as the
current investment selection approach is driven by outdated effluent standards rather than an impact
approach that allows prioritization of investments to obtain maximum benefit in terms of receiving
water use and quality. Corollary to this assessment is the realization that a municipally-focused
institutional set up is not always conducive to regional solutions that are needed to combat pollution
and manage wastewater treatment infrastructure, particularly in the islands and coastal areas.
*   An improved financing framework and additional resources for wastewater treatment investments are
needed to improve water quality, particularly on the Adriatic Coast, despite the expected resources that
might become available with an eventual EU accession. Financing constraints on local municipalities
and the lack of institutional clarity have resulted in the absence of a reliable and comprehensive model
for financing wastewater treatment infrastructure in Croatia. Because wastewater treatment facilities
are in some respect "public" goods, with financial and economic costs borne in upstream municipalities
and benefits accruing elsewhere, the key to the sustainable management of Croatia's wastewater sector
is to develop coordinated mechanisms at the national and sub-regional level for financing the
construction and management of wastewater treatment facilities.



3
PID
Government Strategy
The Govenment has embarked upon a program to address the challenges facing the sector. The core of the
strategy includes:
Redesign of the institutional arrangements for wastewater management. The Government has initiated an
overarching reform of the institutions involved in the management, financing, and oversight of the water
supply and wastewater treatment sector in Croatia. The critical effort has been the consolidation of the role
of HV as the entity responsible for planning and policy setting in the area of wastewater treatment and for
assisting in the financing of wastewater treatment infrastructure to municipalities responsible for local
water distribution and sewerage networks. The reformulated institutional role of HV is predicated on the
corporatization of water supply services, the reform of the sector towards the regionalization of wastewater
management, and allowing the involvement of the private sector in the financing and management of
wastewater treatment facilities through a variety of mechanisms. For this purpose, seeking to secure the
sustainability of the system, the Government's approach includes the strengthening of HV and the
municipal/regional water utilities and institutions in charge of the operation and maintenance of wastewater
management facilities. It also includes the harmonization of national standards and those defined in
relevant EU Directives.
Investment in wastewater treatment and sewerage expansion in coastal areas. The Government has
developed a comprehensive Program for the provision of wastewater treatment facilities to improve the
quality of the waters off Croatia's Adriatic coast. The Program foresees the assistance from the Bank and
from other donors (i.e., the European Investment Bank (EIB) has financed a Master Plan for the Adriatic as
part of the Stability Pact for South Eastern Europe; KfW has recently approved a loan for investments in
the southern Dalmatia area). Along with investments in physical infrastructure, the Government has also
engaged in the strengthening of the technical and financial capacity of municipalities and local utilities,
through technical assistance and the promotion of private sector participation.
Addressing the need for a sustainable financing solution for wastewater treatment. Given the difficulties
inherent in financing wastewater treatment infrastructure, the Government seeks to ensure the affordability
and sustainability of investment through a combination of up-front capital grants (from Government
budgetary transfers and other sources), credit, local contributions, and user supported fees and surcharges.
HV, as the entity responsible for the technical and financial management of the sector investment program,
will use an Environmental Infrastructure Financing Facility (EIFF)-approach to be implemented through its
subsidiary SPSC, which will be given lead responsibility for coordinating subproject design and ensuring
the technical and financial feasibility of the investment. Of critical importance is the fact that, while
up-front capital grants are being provided through the Program, eligibility criteria for subprojects include
explicit sustainaibility of investment and full cost recovery of operation and maintenance expenses.
2. Objectives
The overall Project Development Objective is to improve the quality of Croatia's Adriatic coastal waters to
meet EU ambient quality standards in the participating municipalities, in a financially and operationally
sustainable manner, through (i) support for the strengthening of the institutional arrangements for financing
and management of wastewater management in Croatia and (ii) financing of wastewater collection,
treatment and disposal infrastructure in selected coastal municipalities. The Project will also provide
technical assistance and financing for engineering services, improvements in the environmental monitoring
system for the assessments of Project results and support of Project implementation.



4
PID
The Government has selected the Adaptable Program Lending (APL) approach for the sector, rather than
addressing investment needs city-by-city and project-by-project. The sector policy issues, under the overall
objective of complying with the environmental "acquis communautaire", are basically identical throughout
Croatia's urban areas and the model for addressing them was established with the Municipal
Environmental Infrastructure Project (MEIP). The work carried out during Project preparation has resulted
in a comprehensive "Coastal Cities Pollution Control Program" (the Program) approved by the
Government on March 2003 and on the adoption of the Program's Operational Manual. This Manual
covers all aspects of Program implementation, from appraisal methodology to the procedures to
mainstream social and environmental safeguard policies. The Government's strategy is to initiate the
Program in larger urban areas not yet served with adequate wastewater management infrastructure, and to
expand horizontally, and if necessary vertically, in a programmatic manner. Additionally, the Government
has established an environmental regional onlending mechanism for this Program through the creation of a
Special Purpose Subsidiary Company (SPSC) of HV, which will be in charge and responsible of the
implementation of the Program.
An APL approach will provide a framework for planning and implementing the medium-term investment
program needed to comply with requirements for EU accession by helping HV, through the SPSC, to take a
phased approach to planning and identifying funding sources, while building the necessary regulatory,
monitoring, and control capacity. Individual investment subprojects in each MWSC, as has been the case
until now, would have made such planning more difficult to conceptualize and implement, and a
"projectized" approach would have been less efficient from a management perspective.
Thus, an APL, with triggers designed to deepen the sector's financial, regulatory and management policies
and practices, was the logical choice for the next intervention. In order to acknowledge the speed with
which the Government and urban utilities can implement the envisaged measures and adapt and refine the
implementation procedures and safeguards, the APL is designed in three Phases. Phase I eligibility criteria
concentrate on developing the financing framework and achieving operational autonomy and financial
stability in participating MWSCs through the adoption of adequate tariff structures and levels and
appropriate investment scope, while proceeding to Phase II requires that (i) adequate monitoring and
control capacity is in place; (ii) Phase I investments have been efficiently implemented; (iii) policy reforms
in line with the objective of complying with the relevant environmental "acquis communautaire" have been
adopted; and (iv) relevant sector institutions have demonstrated their ability to implement the Program and
extend its coverage to the rest of the coastal areas.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is uniquely positioned to add value in supporting the Project and the broader aspects of sectoral
reform which are ongoing. Specifically, the Bank contributes:
* Broad international experience, both in private sector participation in the water and sanitation sector
and in the design of development projects in post-conflict areas
*   Policy development expertise and experience in the design of institutional regimes for water resources
management
*   The Bank's extensive experience in development of sustainable mechanisms for municipal service
provision in the water and wastewater sectors
*   The relationships to mobilize other sources of funds for donor cooperation.



5
PID
4. Description
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
To support the Government's Program, the first phase of the APL will comprise a sector investment loan
using the Government's EIFF, to be implemented through HV's SPSC, to finance wastewater treatment and
discharge infrastructure, sewerage expansion and technical assistance, with SPSC acting as technical
implementing agency. HV will facilitate subproject preparation and implementation and coordinate funding
requests to the Bank and other sources. The SPSC would have overall technical responsibility for Project
implementation (including procurement) and specific financial responsibilities for investments in
infrastructure for wastewater treatment and discharge, while MWSCs would have financial responsibility
for investments in sewerage expansion. The attached maps identify the municipalities that have been
identified as candidates to participate in the Project and in the overall Program and present subproject
engineering and technical designs for the systems of the municipalities of Krk, Opatija, Biograd and Zadar.
These have been identified as candidates for the first year of Project implementation and appraised as part
of Project preparation. Overall investments for Phase I have been estimated on the basis of the investment
proposed for these municipalities' wastewater management systems and for those in the municipalities of
Orebic, Korcula, Vela Luka, Trpanj, Rijeka, Makarska, and Ston.
Consistent with the scope and objectives identified above, the Project would have three components:
1. Coastal Environmental Infrastructure Coinponent ($64.80 million for Phase I of the APL), to
finance.
*   Investments in the construction/expansion of sewerage networks; and
*   Investments in main collectors, pumping stations, wastewater treatment plants and submarine outfalls.
The financing of investment would be based on the following principles:
a)     Wastewater treatment and disposal facilities would be financed by HV through the SPSC, using a
combination of credit, resources from the Water Fund, specific Project surcharges, and targeted
subsidies from Government budgetary transfers.
b)     Sewerage and related infrastructure will be financed by a combination of municipal sources, credit,
Project surcharges and potential contributions, as direct subsidies, from HV and/or the Central
Government.
As discussed above, the operation is being prepared within a dynamic institutional setting. The Government
is revising the role of HV, consolidating it as the agency responsible for wastewater treatment facilities
throughout Croatia. The financing mechanism for the Project would reflect the success of the ongoing
Bank-financed operations (namely the MEIP in Split and the Eastern Slavonia Reconstruction Project), and
at the same time the aims to advance on the policy agenda for developing sustainable sub-national credit
facilities in Croatia. As in the Slavonia Project, the Ministry of Finance would be the Project's borrower.
Project funds will be on-lent to establish the EIFF within the SPSC, which will on-lend part of these funds
to municipal (or regional) water and sewerage companies (see Annex 11 presenting a schematic diagram of
the proposed flow of funds).
Under the proposed Project, the approach would build upon HV's experience to handle the financial
management of the on-lending activities with the support of the Bank, which will appraise all subprojects



6
PID
on an annual basis. All procedures for subproject preparation and the criteria for subproject appraisal have
been defined ex-ante and included in the Program's Operational Manual, which the Bank has reviewed and
found to be satisfactory. Detailed engineering and technical designs for the first year of the Project,
including environmental and social assessments, financial models, and tariff schedules agreed-upon with
municipal officials, have been completed prior to loan appraisal.
In addition to an annual appraisal of the work program during Project supervision, the guiding principles
for subproject evaluation and eligibility include:
a)     A financial analysis, taking into account all sources of financing (project and HV surcharges,
direct Government subsidies, and tariff revenues) demonstrating that funds will be sufficient to
cover O&M costs, loan repayment, and depreciation.
b)     Location permits. Location permits are required by Law in Croatia before any public work can be
executed. In order to obtain a location permit the developer has to produce an Environmental
Impact Assessment (EA) approved by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical
Planning (MoE). Compliance with this requirement is a condition of eligibility for all subprojects
in subsequent years.
c)     Construction Permits. Following the granting of Location Permits, Construction Permits are also
required by Law in Croatia. One of the requirements for getting Construction Permits is the
approval of the main design, which has to include proof of ownership and/or land usage
permission.
d)     A least-cost analysis for each subproject, reviewing all options considered for achieving EU
quality standards in bathing and shellfish growing waters in the vicinity of the affected areas.
e)     Priority in terms of receiving water quality. Region-wide criteria developed during Project
preparation define clear investment objectives and, based on these objectives, the Government has
adopted a prioritized plan that ranks wastewater treatment investments in terms of their cost
effectiveness and sensitivity of receiving waters.
f)     Utility preparedness in terms of its ability to contribute to capital cost, management and operation
capacity and financial viability. In this context, an assessment of water supply and sewerage
operations is also included to ensure that they meet reasonable efficiency standards.
2. Institutional Strengthening and Program Managenment Comnponent ($4.69 million for Phase I of the
APL), to finance equipment, technical assistance, training and studies to:
* Devise and implement an institutional framework for water pollution control;
* Complete engineering designs and environmental and social assessments for investments after the first
year of the Program and supervise Project investments;
* Ensure the capacity of the SPSC for Project implementation, evaluation and monitoring, including
financial management; and
* Strengthen and bring utilities to reasonable levels of management, operational efficiency and financial
viability and potentially facilitate private sector participation.  Technical assistance for the
strengthening of municipal water utilities would be provided on a grant basis by HV through the SPSC.
3. Strengthening of the Coastal Waters Monitoring Network ($8.75 million for phase I of the APL) to



7
PID
finance equipment, civil works and technical assistance (see Annex 12 of the Project Appraisal Document
for details on the existing capacity and programs and on the proposed approach) to:
*   Improve the capacity of the MoE network of laboratories for environmental monitoring to assess the
impact of the Program on coastal waters quality
*   Improve the capacity of HV's laboratories to assess the individual discharges of municipalities and
industries, determine the overall pollutants load contributed by Croatia to the Adriatic sea and evaluate
and control the efficiency of the financed infrastructure
*   Provide decision-makers with a critical and reliable environmental monitoring tool allowing to measure
compliance of Croatian coastal waters with relevant EU standards and to adjust the level of wastewater
treatment to reach compliance through targeted and phased investments.
The first part of this Component, to be implemented by MoE, would be financed on a grant basis from
Government funds and loan proceeds, through direct budgetary transfers from the Ministry of Finance.
The second part of the Component would be implemented by the SPSC on behalf of HV.
Main Project costs for the APL Phase I are summarized in the attached table below.
1. Coastal Environmental Infrastructure Component
a) Sewerage extension and rehabilitation
b) Wastewater treatment and disposal infrastructure
2. Institutional Strengthening and Program Management Component
3. Strengthening of the Coastal Waters Monitoring Network
a) Strengthening of the Environmental Monitoring Network
b) Strengthening of the Wastewater Discharge Control Network
Contingencies
5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($44.50)
IBRD ($40.00)
Total Project Cost: $84.50
6. Implementation
The Project has been designed to be implemented based on the evolving structure of the institutions
involved in sector administration. HV, through the SPSC, with the support of the Ministries of Public
Works and Environment, and local utilities will be responsible for the management and implementation of
the Program. Similar to the successful approach used in the MEIP in Split and Eastern Slavonia
Reconstruction Project, it is proposed that SPSC will receive Project funds and onlend part of these funds
to participating municipalities in the Program. The SPSC, as the key technical implementing agency,
would manage and supervise Project implementation, reporting, procurement, and disbursements,
supported by HV's Department for Wastewater Management, in cooperation with the respective water
utilities.
For investments in the expansion and rehabilitation of sewerage networks, the SPSC will on-lend
Project/EIFF funds to participating MWSCs, mostly operating on a regional basis, which would be the
final beneficiaries of the Project. Municipal utilities, within the context of the institutional restructuring
spearheaded under the Project, will remain responsible for investing and managing local sewerage
networks. As such, they will ultimately be responsible for all aspects of local utility management,
including tariff setting, billing and collection.  As indicated above, the SPSC will ensure that (a)



8
PID
subprojects are economically and financially sound based on an agreed-upon methodology for financial and
economic assessment; (b) the MWSCs are technically, financially, and institutionally capable of managing
subproject implementation and repayment; (c) that financial arrangements, including any tariff changes
which might be applicable, are agreed-upon prior to subproject appraisal and codified in a tripartite
agreement between the SPSC, MWSC, and municipal administration; and (d) that all safeguard approaches
are followed as defined in the Operational Manual. In addition, the SPSC will contract an escrow agent (a
commercial bank) for all aspects of fiduciary management, including the establishment of sub-loan
accounts for Project repayment. The escrow account fee' will be capitalized in Project subloans.
For investments in wastewater treatment and final disposal infrastructure and in the HV's monitoring
infrastructure, and for the Institutional Strengthening and Project Manavement component, the SPSC will
directly manage these investments as an agent of HV.
HV is the primary agency established to carry out water management activities under the Water Act. It
manages activities related to guarantee water quantities, water pollution control, flood and erosion control
and activities of public interest in water management. Approximately 70 percent of H-V expenditures are
covered by the water use and user fees. The remaining 30 percent comes from the central budget.
Although it receives funds from the central budget, HV uses the same accrual accounting system employed
by independently managed state utilities. Annual financial statements are audited by a private independent
auditing firm. The accounting system is fully computerized and the staff has extensive experience in
accounting methods. For subprojects which have been reviewed and approved by HV, half of HV's
consumption charge is allocated back to the utilities from which it originates. The remaining 50 percent is
used for economically depressed areas or for investments that are of a high.national priority. Of pollution
charges, 93 percent are returned for investment and 7 percent are used for administration. HV has
regulatory control over all water activities, including water withdrawals, construction of domestic water
supply and wastewater systems, pollution discharges, and sand and gravel excavation.
The Project supports the Government's infrastructure financing approach which utilizes the EIFF for
targeted investments in key infrastructure for environmental protection and economic growth. For Project
implementation, the subsidiary SPSC would be responsible for managing the EIFF, the accounts of which
would be held within a commercial bank as an escrow/trust. The SPSC would be staffed by personnel
seconded from HV and line ministries and would have a Supervisory Board (Board of Directors)
representing HV, the Central Government, and Project municipalities. The SPSC/escrow combination
would achieve three critical objectives in designing the Project institutional arrangements: first, it would
help to reduce the moral hazard inherent in intra-govemmental lending through a more robust governance
structure; second, the use of a commercial bank as an escrow agent would bring a high level of
transparency and accountability, providing comfort to the Bank, Ministry of Finance, and local
governments, alike; and third, in the context of shallow capital markets for sub-national lending, the
arrangement brings replicability to Croatia's infrastructure financing supply needs, which will likely
expand as the country proceeds towards integration with the EU.
Initial discussions with some commercial banks indicate that this fee would be in the order of 0.2% (TBD) of
disbursed/repaid funds.



9
PID
Part of ttie loan proceeds would be made available by the SPSC to MWSCs for sewerage expansion and
rehabilitation, wastewater treatment and final disposal infrastructure investments under Subloan
Agreements. For each subproject, an Escrow Project Accounts would be set up with an initial deposit to be
made by the financing agencies (MWSCs, HV and the Central Government) adequate to cover the local
share of projected expenditures for three months. The Bank would enter into a Loan Agreement with the
Ministry of Finance in representation of the Republic of Croatia and a Project Agreement with HV. As the
Project Implementation Agency, the SPSC will be responsible for overseeing the implementation of the
Project, including procurement, approval of invoices for payment to suppliers and contractors, and
progress reporting on behalf of HV. MWSCs will be responsible for implementing their Performance
Enhancement Programs and the provisions of the Environmental Management Plans for their respective
investments. HV has built up substantial experience and capacity in regard to the Bank's withdrawal
application and disbursement requirements under the projects it currently implements. HV's capacity
would be transferred to SPSC, which will submit withdrawal applications to the Bank and request
withdrawals for the Special Account (SA).
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements: The SPSC will be responsible for
maintaining financial records and will prepare separate Project and subproject reports, satisfactory to the
Bank. The SPSC will be responsible for preparing the consolidated Project accounts, including reports for
the Bank and, in conjunction with the commercial bank managing the escrow accounts, will keep records of
loan proceed receipts and disbursements, including these from the Special Account. HV, the SPSC and the
participating MWSCs would be required to have their financial statements audited, according to
intemational standards, by qualified, independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. Audits will be made
available to the Bank by May 31 each year for the preceding year. The audits will include separate
opinions on the use of the SA and of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). HV's annual financial
statements are audited by an audit firm satisfactory to the Bank. Appointment of auditors of the Project
accounts and financial statements for HV and the SPSC is a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangemnents: The Sub-loan and subproject implementation Agreement
between SPSC and MWSCs, and the Tripartite Direct Agreement between SPSC, MWSC, and the local
municipality(ies) will define their mutual obligations for the duration of the Project. A draft model for this
Tripartite Direct Agreement has been reviewed by the Bank before appraisal. These Agreements will
include monitorable annual or semi-annual targets for institutional perfornance, bill collection
performance, and operational efficiency improvements. These performance targets, which are included in
the Project Implementation Plan, will be used to track and evaluate progress made towards these objectives.
The Bank's Project Agreement with HV and MoE (for the corresponding Environmental Monitoring
sub-Component) and the sub-loan and implementation agreement between SPSC and the MWSCs defines
their mutual obligations in pursuing their respective responsibilities in Project implementation, including
engagement of technical assistance, and timely and satisfactory progress reporting. The Bank's Loan
Agreement with the Ministry of Finance defines the Borrower's obligations. Annual reviews would be
jointly undertaken with the Project agencies during a supervision mission. A Mid-Term Review will be
conducted in the third quarter of the year 2005. An Implementation Completion Report would be submitted
to the Bank promptly after the completion of the Project, no later than six months after the Loan Closing
Date.



10
PID
7. Sustainability
The Project is expected to be fully sustainable. It has full support of the Government and of the involved
municipalities, which see these investments as critical in their future development and in the growth of the
tourism industry, on which they depend. Except for the construction period, during which, by its nature,
the Program will require budgetary support from the Central Government, through channels already
available, the Project financed infrastructure will be self-financing using the mechanisms and tariffs already
in use and will not require external financial support during its operation.
The Project will require significant budgetary support during the construction phase, but will be a net fiscal
contributor during the operations phase. Typically, in view of the significant externalities they provide
through health and environmental improvement benefits, wastewater investments require substantial
external financing other than from the direct beneficiaries.  In the case of the Project, significant
externalities are expected to accrue for the Croatian economy as a whole through its impact on tourism.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Project design reflects the Bank's experience in the preparation and implementation of environmental
management and urban water supply and wastewater treatment projects throughout the world, and
specifically borrows on the lessons learned from the design of operations involving the financing of local
infrastructure and refonns to institutional arrangements for local service provision in the wastewater
sector, particularly in Croatia.
Some of the critical lessons learned and applied in this Project's preparation include:
*      The need for clarity in terms of institutional roles and responsibilities among the multiple
stakeholders at the Central Government and local levels
The need for a clear and transparent institutional structure when lending resources between levels
of government
The need for enhanced public consultation in design and public information during implementation
of major infrastructure
*      The importance of integrating Project activities within a broader context of sectoral reform, with a
focus on regulatory and legal issues
*      The need for effective coordination with other donors working in the sector.
More specifically, the Project has been developed in the context of the successful ongoing Bank operations
in Split (MEIP) and Eastern Slavonia. Both operations provided models for the arrangements for Project
monitoring and supervision, for coordination of different municipalities and have demonstrated the
capacity of HV to play the key role in the technical and financial management of the operation. The
design incorporates these implementation arrangements.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues : For the purposes of O.P. 4.01 on Environmental Analysis the Project has been classified
as Category Financial Intermediary (F). The Bank has reviewed both: (i) EAs for the first year
subprojects; and (ii) EA guidelines to be implemented under the Project in subsequent years.
EAs for the first year subprojects: During Project preparation each of the first year subprojects (Opatija,
Krk, Zadar, and Biograd) has obtained a location permit that is required by Law in Croatia before any



11
PID
public work can be executed. As part of this process, as required by the MoE, an EA has been prepared
using standards that are acceptable to the Bank. The process to obtain a location permit also includes
consultation consistent with the World Bank's requirements. This involved communities and local
stakeholders on the selected solution and setting of the proposed infrastructure. By design, no subproject
sites will be located in the proximity of any protected areas or sites of critical natural habitats, as has been
confirmed during the EA, at which time the possible existence of culturally or socially sensitivity areas
have been assessed.
Previous (2001) World Bank analysis of Croatia's environnental impact assessment system has shown it to
be consistent with EU EA standards, and highly compatible with World Bank's O.P. 4.01. Therefore,
during Project preparation one of the pilot subproject EAs (Zupa Dubrovacka) was translated into English
and found satisfactory by the ECA safeguards team. On the basis of this assessment, it was agreed that
only the executive summaries of the other first year EAs would be required for review by the World Bank
before appraisal. These EAs Executive Summaries have been submitted to the Bank together with evidence
of their public disclosure.
EA guidelines: To be eligible for financing under the Project, subprojects in subsequent years will need to
have approved location permits, thus ensuring that an EA is prepared and approved by the MoE. To
ensure that O.P. 4.01 requirements are met, the Project's Operational Manual contains a separate volume
(Volume IHI) on "Guidelines for Environmental Assessment of subprojects." The Guidelines lay out the
procedures of the EA in a format satisfactory to the World Bank.
During Phase I of the Project, in conjunction with Component III - Strengthening of the Coastal Waters
Monitoring Network - the MoE will prepare a Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) which will
analyze the cumulative impacts of the Program on coastal water quality. As part of the monitoring system
component, the SEA is included in the triggers for Phase II.
The Project is expected to have positive environmental impacts which relate to: (i) improvements in public
health through better water quality of bathing and shellfish growing areas; (ii) enhanced environmental
conditions as a result of more reliable wastewater treatment; and (iii) increased viability of the fisheries and
aquaculture sectors.
10. List of factual technical documents:
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Manuel G. Marino
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473 6692
Fax: 202-6140902
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank



12
PID
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.



