Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN  NUMBER 7226 HR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Coastal Cities Pollution Control Project)  
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 2, 2004 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 7226 HR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF CROATIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower, dated May 29, 2003, 
describing a program designed to improve the provision of efficient and sustainable sanitation 
services in the Borrower’s coastal cities and improve coastal water quality along the Adriatic 
Coast (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of such 
Program; and 
 
(B)  
the Borrower has requested the Bank to support the execution of three phases of 
the Program through a series of loans up to Euro 140,000,000 equivalent over a period of 
approximately ten (10) years to be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of the 
Program; and 
 
(C)  
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist 
in the financing of the Project, which constitutes the first phase of the Program; 
 
(D)   
Parts A, B and C.2 of the Project will be carried out by Hrvatske vode (HV), 
through the Special Purpose Subsidiary Company (SPSC), with the Borrower’s assistance and, 
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for in 
Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to HV, as set forth in this Agreement, and Part 
C.1 of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower through the Ministry of Environmental 
Protection and Physical Planning and Construction Environment (MoE); and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the 
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and HV (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Hrvatske vode” or “HV” means the state agency of the Borrower responsible 
for national water resource management, established pursuant to the Water Act of 1995 
(Official Gazette No. 107/95); 
 
(c) 
“MoE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Environmental Protection and 
Physical Planning and Construction, or any legal successor thereto; 
 
(d) 
“MWSC” means Municipal Water and Sewerage Company duly established 
under the Borrower’s laws and eligible, in accordance with the criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual, for receiving a Sub-project Loan to be financed from the Loan proceeds 
under Part A of the Project; 
 
(e) 
“Operational Manual” means a manual adopted by HV setting forth eligibility 
criteria for participating MWSCs and Sub-projects, the procedures for selecting, appraising, 
approving and supervising of Sub-projects, and the terms and conditions of Sub-project Loans;  
 
(f) 
 “Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and HV of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“SPSC” means the Special Purpose Subsidiary Company of HV to be 
established pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement and which will be responsible for 
implementation of Sub-projects, under Part A of the Project for the benefit of MWSCs and 
under Parts B and C.2 for the benefit of HV;  
 
(i) 
“Sub-project” means an investment project eligible, in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, for financing from the Loan proceeds under Part A 
of the Project; 
 
(j) 
“Sub-project Loan” means a loan to be provided to an eligible MWSC from the 
proceeds of the Loan for financing a Sub-project under Part A of the Project; and  
 
(k) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and HV pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement. 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project implementation 
entity shall be deemed as a reference to HV. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth  or  referred  to  in  the  Loan  Agreement,  an  amount  equal  to  forty  million  Euro               
(Euro 40,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if 
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and any 
premium in respect of an Interest Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in 
accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in Euro a 
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 2008, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan on or promptly after the Effective Date. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty-five one-
hundredths of one percent (0.85%) from the date on which such charge commences to accrue in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General Conditions to but not including 
the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy-five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) 
thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the 
Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of 
the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest, commitment and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Page  6
-
4
-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly after the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself that amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance with 
Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for such 
purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the 
Loan Agreement, shall cause HV to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all actions, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause HV to 
Page  7
-
5
-
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
For the purpose of implementing Parts A, B, and C.2, the Borrower shall relend 
the proceeds of the Loan to HV, allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2) and (3) in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement (Subsidiary Loan), under a Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and HV under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall include 
inter alia
,
the following 
conditions:  
 
(i) 
the Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated in Euro; 
 
(ii) 
the Subsidiary Loan shall be charged semi-annually, on the principal 
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest 
at a rate equal to the rate payable under Section 2.06 of this Agreement; 
 
(iii) 
the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid with an amortization schedule 
calculated to have a maturity of not more than fifteen (15) years, 
including a grace period of not more than five (5) years.  
 
(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, 
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by HV, through SPSC, pursuant to Section 2.03 of 
the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall and shall cause HV, through SPSC, to maintain 
financial management systems, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements 
in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards, acceptable to the Bank, adequate 
to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
Page  8
-
6
-
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the Effective Date falls, to 
and including the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan is made, have the  financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such year or such other period 
agreed to by the Bank, (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank, as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; 
and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit of such financial statements,  and concerning 
said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditures are included in 
the audit for each fiscal year or other period agreed to by the Bank, 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a 
Financial Monitoring Report (FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Loan and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned Project implementation; and 
Page  9
-
7
-
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five 
(45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events, which may give the right to the Bank to suspend withdrawals from the Loan 
Account, are specified: 
 
(a) 
HV shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that HV will be able 
to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
The Water Act of 1995 (Official Gazette No. 107/95) shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
HV to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 
 
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:   
Page  10
-
8
-
(a) 
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and HV;  
 
(b) 
SPSC has been established in accordance with applicable laws of the Borrower; 
and  
 
(c) 
the Accounting Manual of Procedures has been adopted by SPSC and a 
satisfactory financial management system has been established within SPSC. 
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by HV, and is 
legally binding upon HV in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and HV and is legally binding upon the Borrower and HV in accordance with its 
terms.  
 
Section 6.03. The date one-hundred twenty (120) days after the date of the signing of 
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
Ministry of Finance 
Katan
 i eva 5
 
Zagreb 10000 
Republic of Croatia 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
862-21215   
 
(385-1) 4922-598 
 
862-21833 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Zadar, 
Republic of Croatia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 
By  /s/  Ivan Suker 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/  Anand K. Seth 
 
Authorized Representative  
 
Page  12
-
10 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the Loan 
 
Allocated  
 
% of Expenditures 
 Category
Expressed in Euro
to be financed
(1) 
Works 
28,500,000 
 50% 
  
 
(2) Goods 
5,100,000 
 
50% 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
3,400,000 
 
50% 
 
and training 
 
 
 
(4) 
Premia for Interest Rate 
- 
Amount due under  
 
Caps and Interest Rate Collars 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of this  
 
Agreement 
 
(5) Unallocated 
3,000,000
TOTAL 40,000,000 
 
======== 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an amount not exceeding Euro 4,000,000 may be made on account of payments 
made for expenditures under Categories (1), (2) and (3) before that date but after          
September 1, 2003; and (b) any expenditures under any Category in the table in paragraph 1 
above unless the Bank has received payment in full of the front-end fee referred to in          
Section 2.04 of this Agreement.  
 
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing less than     
Euro 500,000 equivalent per contract, with the exception of the first contracts procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 and C.2 of Section I of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement; (b) works costing less than Euro 1,000,000 equivalent per contract, except for the 
first contracts procured in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 and C.3 of Section I of 
Schedule I to the Project Agreement; (c) for services of individual consultants costing less than 
Euro 50,000 equivalent per contract; and (d) for services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than Euro 100,000 equivalent per contract, under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  13
-
11 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality of the Borrower’s Adriatic coastal 
waters through: (a) supporting the strengthening of the institutional arrangements for financing 
and management of wastewater management in Croatia; and (b) financing of wastewater 
collection, treatment and disposal infrastructure in selected coastal municipalities. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Coastal Environmental Infrastructure Investments
Financing and carrying out of Sub-projects for construction and expansion of sewerage 
networks and for construction, rehabilitation and expansion of main collectors, pumping 
stations, wastewater treatment facilities and submarine outfalls in selected MWSCs. 
 
Part B
:
Institutional Strengthening and Program Management 
1. 
Design and implementation of an institutional framework for water pollution control.
 
2. 
Completion of engineering designs and environmental and social assessments for 
investments after the first phase of the Program and supervision of investments financed under 
Sub-projects. 
 
3. 
Strengthening SPSC’s capacity for Project implementation, including evaluation, 
monitoring and financial management.
 
4. 
Strengthening management, operational efficiency and financial viability of MWSCs.
 
Part C
:
Strengthening of the Coastal Waters Monitoring Network
1. 
Improving the capacity of the MoE network of laboratories for environmental 
monitoring to assess Program impact on coastal waters quality. 
 
2. 
Improving the capacity of HV’s laboratories to assess individual discharges of 
municipalities and industries, to determine the overall pollutants load contributed by the 
Borrower to the Adriatic sea and evaluate and control the efficiency of the financed 
infrastructure. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 2008.
 
Page  14
-
12 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
(Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) the total principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by       
(b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to 
which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 15th and October 15th  
 
beginning October 15, 2009 through April 15, 2019 
5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by 
the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of 
which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment Share) and the denominator 
of which shall be the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment 
Dates falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to 
deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal Payment 
Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal 
Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if at 
any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or 
Page  15
-
13 - 
after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no 
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the 
Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to said 
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said 
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall 
be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply 
separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  16
-
14 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall delegate to HV the responsibility for implementation of  Parts A, B 
and C.2  of the Project, and to MoE for the implementation of Part C.1 of the Project.    
 
2. 
The Borrower: (a) shall cause HV, through SPSC, to implement Parts A, B and C.2  of 
the Project in accordance with the provisions agreed with the Bank and set forth in the 
Operational Manual; and (b) shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operational Manual 
or any provisions thereof, without the B
ank’s prior concurrence.  
 
3. 
The Borrower shall and shall cause HV, through SPSC, to: 
 
(a)  
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about September 1, 2005, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by January 1, 2006, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter.  
Page  17
-
15 - 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of Euro 1,500,000 
equivalent in respect of the Special Account to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to the amount of Euro 500,000 equivalent until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions  shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of Euro 2,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request 
or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
Page  18
-
16 - 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of 
time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as 
the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not 
so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank 
Page  19
-
17 - 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
 
