Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF054833-CHA 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Renewable Energy Scale-up Program - Phase I) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated August 11,  2005 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF054833-CHA 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 11, 2005
,
between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF), in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by 
certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the 
Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution 94-2); 
 
(C) 
the Bank has received a letter from the Recipient, dated October  27, 
2000, describing a renewable energy scale-up program designed to promote renewable 
energy development and utilization (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of such program;  
 
(D) 
 the Recipient has requested that the GEF support the Recipient’s 
execution of the Program through a series of GEF Trust Fund Grants over a period of 
approximately fifteen (15) years  to be utilized by the Borrower in the implementation of 
the Program;  
 
(E) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding Part A of the Project, 
and said request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the 
Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility 
approved under Resolution 94-2;   
 
(F) 
the Recipient has also requested the Bank to provide additional financing  
towards financing Part B of the Project, and by an agreement of even date herewith 
between the Recipient and the Bank, the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to eighty seven million Dollars ($87,000,000) (the 
Loan); and 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated  May 
30, 1995 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (14), (15), (16), (18) 
and  (21), 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and  4.06; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) and 
(p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;  
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01(c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (6), 6.02 (f)  and  5.01 (a) thereof, means 
Page  4
-
3
-
the Bank acting as an implementing agency of the GEF, except 
that in Section 
6.02,
the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank 
acting in its own capacity; 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(iv) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
(vi) 
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph 
(o) in 
Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: “an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any further 
disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the 
resources available for disbursement from the GEF.”; 
(vii) 
the words “corrupt or fraudulent” in paragraph (c) of 
Section 6.03 are replaced with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Biomass Technology Sub-project” means a specific biomass technology 
improvement project selected by the Recipient for financing under Part A.1(d) of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5 of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and Biomass Technology Sub-projects means, collectively, all such Biomass 
Technology Sub-projects. 
 (b) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between 
the Recipient and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time 
to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan 
Agreement. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(d) 
“NDRC” means the Recipient’s National Development and Reform 
Commission and any successor  thereto. 
(
e) 
"Participating Entity” means a commercial enterprise,  research institute 
or university that the PMO has selected to carry out one or more GEF-funded Sub-
projects." 
(f) 
“Procurement Plans” means, collectively, Fujian’s Procurement Plan, 
dated January 27, 2005, Jiangsu’s Procurement Plan, dated January 30, 2005, and the 
NDRC’s Procurement Plan, dated March 17, 2005, covering the initial eighteen (18) 
month period (or longer) of Project implementation for the relevant part of the Project, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month periods (or longer) of 
Project implementation for the relevant part of the Project. 
(g) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith 
between the Bank and the Project Companies, as such agreement may be amended from 
time to time; and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement.  
(h) 
“Project Management Office” and “PMO” means the project 
management office established in NDRC and maintained in accordance with paragraph 
1(b) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
(i) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
(j) 
“Sub-grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to an eligible Participating Entity, to finance, in 
part, one or more eligible (i) Wind Technology Sub-project under Part A.1(c)(i) of the 
Project, (ii) Biomass Technology Sub-project under Part A.1(d) of the Project; (iii) 
specialized courses on wind technology at selected research institutions and universities 
and fellowships to study abroad on the subject matter of renewable energy technology 
under Part A.1(e) of the Project, and (iv) pilot projects for the scaling-up of renewable 
energy activities under Part A.2(d) of the Project; Sub-grants” means, collectively, all 
such Sub-grants. 
(k) 
“Wind Technology Sub-project” means a specific wind technology 
improvement project selected by the Recipient for financing under Part A.1(c)(i) of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5 of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and Wind Technology Sub-projects means, collectively, all such Wind 
Technology Sub-projects.  
 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE II 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount  equal to forty million two hundred and twenty thousand Dollars ($40,220,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the  reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out Part A of 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant (except 
for Parts A.1(c), A.1(d), A.1(e) and A.2(b); (ii) amount paid (or if the Bank shall so 
agree, to be paid) on account of a Sub-grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for a Wind Technology Sub-project, a Biomass Technology Sub-
project, the support of postgraduate specialized courses and fellowships on renewable 
energy and wind technology under Parts A.1(c), A.1(d), A.1(e) of the Project, and pilot 
projects for the scaling-up of renewable energy activities under Part A.2(b) of the Project, 
and in respect of which withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account is required. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of Part A of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2010, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part A 
of the Project through NDRC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, engineering, financial and public utilities practices, and with 
due regard to ecological, environmental and social standards, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for said Part of the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry 
Page  7
-
6
-
out Part A of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, and services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plans.  
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plans in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 
twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Pla
ns, for the Bank’s 
approval.  
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan to ensure the 
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to Part A of the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section  for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
Page  8
-
7
-
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
 Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 9 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part A of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant, and explains variances between the actual and planned 
uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in implementation of Part A of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and explains variances between the actual
 
and planned 
implementation of said Part of the Project; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Part A of the Project, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar semester after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each 
Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester.  
 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified: 
(a) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph (a): 
(i) 
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
made to the Recipient for the financing of Part B of the Project 
shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the Loan Agreement; or 
(ii) 
the Loan shall have become due and payable prior to the agreed 
maturity thereof. 
(b) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph (a) shall not apply if the Recipient 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of 
its obligations under the Loan  Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for Part B of the 
Project are available to the Recipient from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effectiveness, Termination
 
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties hereto or the effective date of the Loan Agreement, whichever is later. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder; provided, however, that if the Loan Agreement terminates prior to 
the termination of this Agreement, this Agreement shall terminate automatically and shall 
cease to have any further force or effect. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe, Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 68551125 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
      Telex: 
     Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
     (1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By: /s/ Zhu Guangyao 
 
Authorized Representative
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND  
DEVELOPMENT  
 
By: /s/ David Dollar 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant 
% of 
 
Allocated (Expressed 
Expenditures 
 Category
in Dollars
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods under: 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 100% of 
 
(a)  Part A.2 of the Project 
2,200,000 
local expenditures (ex- 
 
factory costs) and 75% 
 
(b)  Part A.3 of the Project 
190,000 
of local expenditures 
 
for other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ Services under: 
 
100% 
 
(a)  Part A.1 of the Project 
10,116,00 
 
(b)  Part A.2 of the Project 
7,717,000 
 
(c)  Part A.3 of the Project 
2,548,000 
 
(3) 
Sub-grants under 
 
100% of Sub-grants  
 
amounts disbursed 
 
(a)  Part A.1(c) of the Project 
6,877,000 
 
(b)  Part A.1(d) of the Project 
1,837,000 
 
(c)  Part A.1(e) of the Project 
1,990,000 
 
(d)  Part A.2(b) of the Project 
2,883,000 
 
(4) 
Incremental Operating Costs 
642,000 
100% 
 
(5) Unallocated 
3,220,000
TOTAL 40,220,000
Page  13
-
12
-
2.  
For the purposes of this Schedule, the terms: 
(a) 
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that expenditures in 
the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied form said region, and expenditures in the currency of the Macao 
Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from said 
region shall be deemed “foreign expenditures”; 
(b) 
“incremental operating costs” means reasonable expenditures directly 
related to Part A of the Project (which expenditures would not have been incurred absent 
said Part of the Project) incurred by the Project Management Office in respect of office 
supplies, communications, logistics and translation services, and transportation, but 
excluding staff salaries; and 
(c) 
“local expenditures” means expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $150,000, may be made 
in respect of Category (2)(b) on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after January 1, 2005.  
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: 
(a) goods costing less than $10,000 equivalent per contract; (b) services of individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; and (c) services of 
consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (d) Sub-grants; and 
(e) operating costs; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient. 
5. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditures not inconsistent with the 
provisions of this  Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to initiate actions to 
achieve the Program’s objectives countrywide through: (i) developing a legal and 
regulatory framework for the Mandated Market Policy (MMP); and (ii) providing support 
for the implementation of said legal and regulatory framework in the Pilot Provinces. 
The Project, which constitutes the first phase of the Program,  consists of the 
following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may 
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
Part A
:
Renewable Energy Institutional Development and Capacity Building
1. 
Carrying out a program of institutional strengthening at the national level, 
consisting of:  
(a) 
Undertaking studies and research on the MMP development and its 
implementation, including: distributing national renewable energy targets between 
provinces; setting the tariff level for renewable energy; sharing the MMP costs between 
provinces; developing trading schemes to minimize the MMP costs; linking the MMP to 
carbon trading mechanisms; and preparing a medium to long term plan for renewable 
energy development.  
(b) 
Developing regulations to implement the Renewable Energy Law (the 
REL), and providing training to concerned stakeholders to implement REL and its 
implementing regulations. 
(c) 
Improving wind technology, through: (i) financing of specific investment 
projects to accelerate wind technology development, through the provision of Sub-grants 
to selected wind equipment manufacturers; (ii) supporting the development and adoption 
of standards for wind turbines by the Standardization Administration of China; (iii) 
establishing a wind testing center to be accredited as a testing center meeting 
internationally recognized standards; (iv) strengthening the capacity of one certification 
body to certify wind turbine design and performance; and strengthening the capacity of 
China Certification Accreditation Administration; (v) carrying out capacity building 
activities and studies to support wind resource assessment; and (vi) carrying out capacity 
building activities and studies on wind farm implementation. 
(d) 
Improving biomass utilization technologies through: (i) financing of 
specific investment projects to improve the quality and reduce the cost of biomass 
utilization technologies, through the provision of Sub-grants to selected biomass 
Page  15
-
14
-
equipment manufacturers; and (ii) carrying out capacity building activities and studies on 
biomass electricity project implementation. 
(e) 
Supporting specialized courses on wind technology at selected research 
institutions and universities and providing fellowships to selected engineers to study 
abroad on the subject matter of renewable energy technology.    
2. 
Carrying out a program of institutional strengthening at the provincial level in the 
Pilot Provinces, consisting of:  
(a) 
Preparing provincial renewable energy development strategies; testing 
renewable energy promotion models; and raising renewable energy awareness among 
stakeholders. 
(b) 
Supporting the Pilot Provinces to scale up their renewable energy 
activities, through: (i) identifying and preparing projects that demonstrate a renewable 
electricity technology or application other than the one supported in the Province under 
Part B of the Project; and (ii) preparing a pilot offshore wind farm.  
(c) 
Undertaking renewable energy resources assessments in the Pilot 
Provinces, including assessments on wind, solar energy, biomass, municipal solid waste 
and small hydropower resources; and preparing and publishing data on said renewable 
energy resources assessments.  
(d) 
Providing training to renewable energy market participants (including 
developers, banks, technology and service providers); supporting studies on improvement 
of approval procedures for renewable energy projects, integration of renewable energy 
into national electricity grids, and identifying and removing bottlenecks in renewable 
energy project development; and strengthening the capacity of existing renewable energy 
development centers.  
(e) 
Providing technical assistance to: (i) support the renewable energy 
investment project under Part B of the Project in each Pilot Province in the aspects of 
detailed technical design, procurement, construction, maintenance, and operations; and 
(ii) carry out pre-investment activities related to the Project's objectives in each Pilot 
Province. 
3. 
Strengthening the capacity of the PMO in day-to-day implementation, 
management, coordination, monitoring, and evaluation of the activities described in this 
Part A.   
Page  16
-
15
-
Part B
:
Renewable Energy Investments
1. 
Developing a wind farm, at Pingtan Island, Fujian, consisting of: installation of 
wind turbines with an aggregate capacity of about 100 megawatts (MW) and associated 
civil and electrical works;  expansion of an existing control room and a switchyard;  and 
extension of a 110 kV transmission line from the wind farm to the Beicuo Sub-station.  
2. 
Developing a biomass power plant, in Rudong County, Jiangsu, consisting of: 
installation of a 110t/h straw-fired boiler and a 25 MW steam turbine; and associated 
civil, mechanical  and electrical works.   
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2010. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Implementation Program 
Project Management
1. 
The Recipient shall, maintain, throughout the period of implementation of Part A 
of the Project: 
(a) 
the Project Steering Committee, with terms of reference, composition, 
and other resources acceptable to the Bank, chaired by NDRC and, including, but not 
limited to, representatives from the Environment and Resources Committee of the 
National People’s Congress, the Office of Legislative Affairs of the State Council, the 
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Science and Technology, the Ministry of Water 
Resources, the State Environmental Protection Agency, the State Electricity Regulatory 
Commission, the State Electric Grid Company, and the China Academy of Science, to be 
responsible for the overall policy guidance and coordination of the Project 
implementation among different agencies; and 
(b) 
the Project Management Office established within NDRC, with terms of 
reference, staffing, and other resources acceptable to the Bank, to be responsible for the 
overall implementation of Part A of the Project both at the central and provincial levels.   
Project Implementation
2. 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank for comments drafts of any laws, 
regulations and guidelines prepared under Parts A.1(b) and A.2(a) of the Project, and 
thereafter, submit such draft instruments to the appropriate legislative or executive organ 
for enactment or issuance, taking into account the Bank’s comments thereof. 
 
3. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,  the studies 
under Parts A.1(a) and A.2(e) of the Project, and thereafter furnish to the Bank for 
comments the recommendations of said studies; and 
 
(b) 
prepare an action plan for the implementation of the recommendations of 
said studies taking into account the comments of the Bank thereon, and promptly 
thereafter, carry out such action plan.  
 
Page  18
-
17
-
4. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
 carry out the renewable energy resources assessments under Part A .2(e) 
of the Project in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank for comments the results of the assessments; and 
 
(b) 
finalize the results of the assessments taking into account the comments 
of the Bank thereon, and promptly thereafter, but not later than ninety (90) days after they 
are finalized, publish the assessments to the public in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
Wind Technology Sub-projects, Biomass Technology Sub-projects, Fellowships and 
Specialized Courses on Renewable Energy Technology
5. 
With respect to Parts A.1(c)(i), A.1(d) and A.1(e) of the Project, the Recipient, 
shall, through the Project Management Office, appraise, evaluate and select Wind 
Technology Sub-projects, Biomass Technology Sub-projects, fellowships for specialized 
courses on wind technologies for financing, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Implementation Plan (prepared for Part A of the Project), including that: 
(a) 
Each Wind Technology Sub-project, Biomass Technology Sub-project, 
and any sponsored fellowships and specialized courses shall only be approved provided 
the proposed Wind Technology Sub-project, Biomass Technology Sub-project, 
fellowship and specialized course and the beneficiaries thereof satisfy the eligibility 
criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Plan (prepared for Part A of the Project).  
 (b) 
In respect of each Wind Technology Sub-project, Biomass Technology 
Sub-project, renewable energy fellowship and specialized course, the Recipient shall 
obtain, by written contract with the beneficiary of the Wind Technology Sub-project or 
the Biomass Technology Sub-project, or any fellowship grantees or universities and 
research institutions with sponsored specialized courses, or by other appropriate legal 
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank, including 
that said beneficiary shall undertake to: 
(i) 
carry out the Wind Technology Sub-project and Biomass 
Technology Sub-project, undertake the fellowship or organize 
the specialized courses with due diligence and efficiency, in 
accordance with sound financial, technical, public utilities and, if 
applicable, environmental standards, acceptable to the Bank;  
(ii) 
provide promptly as needed funds and other resources required 
for the purposes of carrying out the Wind Technology Sub-
project, Biomass Technology Sub-project, financing fellowships 
and sponsoring specialized courses on wind technologies;  
(iii) 
maintain adequate records and accounts; 
Page  19
-
18
-
(iv) 
procure goods and services required for its Wind Technology 
Sub-project, the Biomass Technology Sub-project, the granting 
of fellowships and the coordination of specialized courses; 
(v) 
ensure that the goods and services referred to in (iv) above, to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-grants, be procured at 
reasonable prices, account being taken also of other relevant 
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency, quality and 
reliability, and, if applicable, the availability of maintenance 
facilities and spare parts therefor, and all goods and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Wind 
Technology Sub-project, the Biomass Technology Sub-project, 
the granting of renewable energy fellowships and the 
coordination of specialized courses; 
(vi) 
maintain and operate its equipment and facilities at all times, and 
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary 
repairs and renewals in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and industry practices;  
(vii) 
if applicable: (a) take out and maintain with responsible insurers 
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practices; and (b) without any 
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards 
incident to the acquisition, transportation, and delivery of goods 
financed under the Sub-grants, to the place of use or installation, 
any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency 
freely usable by the beneficiary of the Sub-grants to replace or 
repair such goods;  
(vi) 
enable the Recipient and the Bank to inspect the goods and sites 
included in the Wind Technology Sub-project and Biomass 
Technology Sub-project and any relevant records, accounts and 
documents;  
(vii) 
provide all such information as the Recipient or the Bank may 
reasonably request regarding the management, operations and 
financial condition of the beneficiary of the Wind Technology 
Sub-project and Biomass Technology Sub-project; and 
(viii) 
with respect to a beneficiary that is an enterprise, to provide to 
the Bank upon the Bank’s request, a copy of the then current 
year financial statement, record or accounts of said enterprise. 
Page  20
-
19
-
(c) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights in respect of each said Sub-project 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank, and to achieve 
the purposes of said Wind Technology Sub-project and Biomass Technology Sub-project. 
Part A.2(b) of the Project
6. 
With respect to Part A.2(b) of the Project, the Recipient, shall, through the 
Project Management Office, evaluate and select the proposals put forward by eligible 
power project developers for the preparation and demonstration of pilot projects applying 
renewable energy technology for financing, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Implementation Plan (prepared for Part A of the Project), including that: 
(a) 
Each pilot project may be approved for financing out of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant only if the pilot project and beneficiary thereof satisfy the eligibility criteria 
set forth in the Project Implementation Plan (prepared for Part A of the Project).  
 (b) 
In respect of each pilot project, the Recipient, shall obtain, by written 
contract with the beneficiary of the pilot project, or by other appropriate legal means, 
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank, including that said 
beneficiary shall undertake to: 
(i) 
provide promptly as needed funds and other resources required 
for the purposes of the preparation and demonstration of each 
pilot project; 
(ii) 
maintain adequate records and accounts; 
(iii) 
procure the services required for its pilot project in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(iv) 
enable the Recipient and the Bank to inspect any relevant 
records, accounts and documents;  
(v) 
provide all such information as the Recipient or the Bank may 
reasonably request regarding the management, operations and 
financial condition of the beneficiary of the Sub-grants; and 
(vi) 
with respect to a beneficiary that is an enterprise, to provide to 
the Bank upon the Bank’s request, a copy of the then current 
year financial statement, record or accounts of said enterprise. 
(c) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights in respect of each pilot project in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank, and to achieve the 
purposes of preparing and demonstrating said pilot project. 
Page  21
-
20
-
Annual Work Plan and Budget
7. 
The Recipient, through the PMO, shall: 
 
(a) 
 prepare and furnish to the Bank by October 31 of each year, an annual 
work plan and budget for the activities under Part A of the Project to be carried out in the 
following calendar year, which shall be accompanied by a financing plan and a 
procurement plan therefor;  
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on and exchange 
views with the PMO on said plan; and 
 
(c) 
thereafter, shall carry out Part A of the Project during the following 
calendar year in accordance with such plans, as shall have been agreed with the Bank. 
8
The Recipient through the PMO, shall regularly update the Project 
Implementation Plan and the Procurement Plan, as provided in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement.   
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
9. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(a) 
Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank the 
carrying out of Part A of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
(b) 
Prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about March 31 and October 31 of each year, commencing on March 31, 
2006, a semi-annual report: (i) integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, on the progress 
achieved in carrying out Part A of the Project during the preceding calendar semester (or 
in the case of the last such report furnished for each calendar year, during the preceding 
calendar year); (ii) setting forth physical and financial progress in the implementation of 
said Part of the Project both cumulatively and in respect of the period under review; and 
(iii) setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of said 
Part of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date.  
(c) 
Promptly after providing to the Bank each report referred to in sub-
paragraph (b) of this paragraph, the Recipient shall review the same with the Bank and 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part A of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $3,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of 
$2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part A of the Project shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of $15,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
Page  23
-
22
-
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories for the Special Account for Part A of the Project, 
minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part A of the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories for 
Page  24
-
23
-
Part A of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the  Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods under Part A.2 of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded: (a) on the basis of National Competitive Bidding; and (b) the 
following additional provisions: 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding under shall be 
those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People's Republic of China 
promulgated by Order No. 21 of the President of the People's Republic of China on 
August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required for compliance with the 
Guidelines: 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a newspaper 
of national circulation in the Recipient’s country, except for civil works 
contracts that are estimated cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent each and 
for goods, contracts that are estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent each, which may be advertised in a provincial daily 
newspaper.  Such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for 
prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty 
(30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of advertisement in 
Page  26
-
25
-
such newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and the 
advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline for such 
submission. 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the 
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding 
documents. 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be no limit 
on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount sufficient 
to protect the Recipient in case of breach of contract by the contractor, 
and the bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount of 
such security. 
(v) 
The time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for 
receipt of such bids. 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be 
required to be present at the bid opening.  
(vii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside 
any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of average bids 
established by the Recipient. 
(viii) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be 
substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the 
lowest evaluated cost.  The winning bidder shall not be required, as a 
condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated 
in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted.  
(ix) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that 
the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to 
inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance of the 
contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors 
appointed by the Bank. 
Page  27
-
26
-
(x) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3). 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B.
Other Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3.  
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the requirement of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provision of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, during 
the first year of the Project, all procurement contracts shall be subject to prior review by 
the Bank, and thereafter, the Bank’s Prior Review shall take place for: (a) each contract 
Page  28
-
27
-
for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more; (b) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more.  In addition, the record of justification referred to in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines for each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more shall be subject to prior approval of 
the Bank.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
 
