                                              Documentof
                                          The WorldBank

                                      FOR OFFICIALUSE ONLY

                                                                               ReportNo: 27759-HR


                                      FOROFFICIALUSE ONLY




                                ' PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                                  ONA

                               PROPOSEDADAPTABLE PROGRAMLOAN

                                 INTHEAMOUNT OFEURO40 MILLION

                                                TO THE

                                       REPUBLICOF CROATIA

                                                 FORA

                          COASTAL CITIES POLLUTIONCONTROLPROJECT
                               INSUPPORTOFTHEFIRSTPHASEOFTHE

                        COASTAL CITIES POLLUTIONCONTROLPROGRAM

                                              May 4,2004




InfrastructureandEnergySector Unit
SouthCentralEuropeCountryUnit
EuropeandCentralAsia Region




 This document has a restricteddistributionandmay beusedby recipients only inthe performanceoftheir
 official duties. Its contents mavnot otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bankauthorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          (Exchange Rate Effective April 30,2004)

                               Currency Unit = Croatian Kuna (HRK)
                                     HRKl    = US$0.1584
                                      US$1 = HRK6.3143

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1 -- December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL      Adaptable ProgramLoan
CAMP     Coastal Areas Management Programme
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Review
EBIT     Earnings Before Interest and Taxes
EBRD     EuropeanBank for Reconstruction and Development
EA       Environmental Impact Assessment
EIB      European Investment Bank
EIFF     Environmental Infrastructure Financing Facility
EIRR     Economic Intemal Rates o f Retum
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
EU       EuropeanUnion
FMR      Financial Management Report
FMS      Financial Management System
GORE%    Government Office for the Rights o f Property
HBOR     Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development
HV       Hrvatske Vode (Croatian Waters)
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment
I P H    Institute o f Public Health
KfW      Kreditanstalt fix Wiederaufbau (Germany)
MAP      Mediterranean Action Plan
MEIP     Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
MoE      Ministryo fEnvironmental ProtectionandPhysicalPlanning andConstruction
MW       Minor Works
MWSC     Municipal Water and Sewerage Company
NEAP     National Environmental Action Plan
N P V    Net Present Value
O&M      Operation and Maintenance
P M U    Project Monitoring Unit
PPL      Public Procurement Law
S A      Special Account
SAs      Social Assessments
SEA      Strategic Environmental Assessment
SFI      Specialized FinancialIntermediary
SPSC     Special Puqose Subsidiary Company
SOEs     Statements o f Expenditures

                                                          FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




   TA        Technical Assistance
   UNCITRAL  UnitedNations Commission on International Trade Law




                               Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
                             Country Director:   Anand Seth, ECCUS
                             Country Manager:    IndiraKonjhodzic, ECCHR
                               Sector Director:  Hossein Razavi, ECSIE
                              Sector Manager:    Sumter Lee Travers, ECSIE
             Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Manuel Mariiio, ECSIE




This document has a restricted distribution andmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                              CROATIA
                      COASTALCITIES POLLUTION CONTROLPROJECT


                                              CONTENTS




A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                   Page

   1. Programpurpose andprogramphasing                                                   3
   2. Project development objective                                                      3
   3. Key performance indicators                                                         4

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported bythe project
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
   3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices
   4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequentloans

C. Program andProject Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                 10
   2. Key policy andinstitutional reforms supportedby the project                        12
   3. Benefits and target population                                                     13
   4. Institutional and implementationarrangements                                       13

D.Project Rationale

   1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           15
   2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies       17
   3. Lessons learned andreflectedinthe project design                                   17
   4. Indications o fborrower commitment and ownership                                   18
   5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                        18

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                           18
   2. Financial                                                                          19
   3. Technical                                                                          19
   4. Institutional                                                                      20
   5. Environmental                                                                      21
   6. Social                                                                             23
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 25

F. Sustainability andRisks

   1. Sustainability                                                                    27
   2. Critical risks                                                                    27
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    29


G. MainLoanConditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           29
   2. OtherNegotiations Conditions                                                      29

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         31

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                            31



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         32
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                                    34
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        36
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-EffectivenessAnalysis Summary           37
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Eaming Project Entities, or Financial Summary    39
Annex 6: (A) ProcurementArrangements                                                    46
           (B)Financial ManagementandDisbursementArrangements                           52
Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule                                                     55
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                   56
Annex 9: Statementof Loans and Credits                                                  57
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           59
Annex 11: Flow ofFunds                                                                  61
Annex 12: Monitoring System                                                             63
Annex 13: Policy Framework                                                              65




MWS)
IBRDNo. 32862

                                                     CROATIA
                               COASTAL CITIES POLLUTIONCONTROL PROJECT
                                       ProjectAppraisalDocument
                                          Europe and Central Asia Region
                                                       ECSIE

~ D T e :May 4,2004                                        Team Leader: Manuel G. Marino
Sector Manager: Sumter Lee Travers                         Sector@): Sewerage (70%), Generalwater, sanitationand
Country Director: Anand K. Seth                            flood protection sector (30%)
Project ID: PO65416                                        Theme@): Pollutionmanagement and environmentalhealth
LendingInstrument: Adaptable ProgramLoan (APL)             (PI, Other e n v h " t   and natural resources management
                                                           (PI




 For LoanslCreditslOthers:
 Loan Currency:Euro
 Amount (US$m): 47.54 millionUS$equivalent Euro 40 million
                                               -
 Borrower Rationalefor Choice of LoanTerms Available on File:[XI Yes
 ProposedTerms (IBRD): Fixed-SpreadLoan (FSL)
 Grace period(years):5                                    Years to maturity: 15
                                                          Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
                                                          Paymentfor FEF: Borrower to Pay from OwnResources

 Initialchoice of Interest-rate basis: Maintain as Variable
Type of repaymentschedule:
  [XI Fixed at Commitment,with the following repayment method(choose one): level
  [ ] Linkedto Disbursement

Borrower: GOVERNMENTOF CROATIA
Responsibleagency: HRVATSKEVODE (HV)
Address: Ulica GradaVukovara220, 10000Zagreb, Croatia
Contact Person: GeneralManager
Tel: +385 16155 820                Fax: +385 16155 910             Email: @voda.hr
Other Agency(ies):
Ministryof EnvironmentalProtection, PhysicalPlanningandConstruction
Address: Zagreb, Croatia
Contact Person: RokoAndricevic, Assistant Minister
Tel: +385 161 06 578                Fax: +385 16112073              Email: roko.andricevic@mzopu.hr
Estimated Disbursements( Bank FY/US$m):




Projectimplementationperiod: four (4 years)
Expectedeffectivenessdate: 09/01/2004 Expectedclosingdate: 11/30/2008




                                                     - 2 -

A. Program Purposeand Project DevelopmentObjective
1. Programpurpose andprogram phasing:
The proposed Adaptable Program Loan (APL) supports the Government o f Croatia's comprehensive
program to improve the provisiono f efficient and sustainable sanitation services inCroatia's Coastal Cities
and, thus, improve coastal water quality along the Adriatic Coast.              The overall objective o f the
APL-supported Program is the improvement o f ambient coastal water quality to meet European Union
(EU) standards. The key elements o fthe Program's first phase (the proposedProject) are: (i)     expansion o f
sewerage networks, adequate treatment and appropriate disposal o f municipal wastewaters; (ii)       enhanced
operation and management o f Municipal Water and Sewerage Companies (MWSCs);(iii)expanded and
improvedmonitoring of coastal water quality and wastewater discharges; (iv) reform o f Croatia's financing
and control instruments for wastewater management infrastructure at the regional level; and (v) sector
reform for EU accession. In subsequent phases, the proposed APL Program aims at expanding and
consolidating the results o f the first phase through: (vi) improvement o f sector management through the
establishment o f financially viable water and sewerage companies with significant participation o f the
private sector; and (vii) krther development o f sewerage coverage and treatment levels, including the reuse
o f wastewater.

The adaptive nature o f the Program will support a learning environment for the application o f an efficient
financing policy for sector investments, whereby municipal governments decide whether or not to
participate in the Program based on a clear understanding o f the rules o f engagement. This will include a
willingness by local governments to require users to meet their financial obligations and assume
responsibility for sustaining and making effective use o f their improved services. The programmatic
approach allows for the gradual application o f the new policies throughout the country by providing
investment incentives to municipalities that are willing to reform, and by coupling the transition with
adequate institutionbuildingat all levels.


2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The overall Project Development Objective is to improve the quality o f Croatia's Adriatic coastal waters to
meet EU ambient quality standards in the participating municipalities, in a financially and operationally
sustainable manner, through (i)  support for the strengthening o f the institutional arrangements for financing
and management o f wastewater management in Croatia and (ii)financing o f wastewater collection,
treatment and disposal infrastructure in selected coastal municipalities. The Project will also provide
technical assistance and financing for engineering services, improvements inthe environmental monitoring
system for the assessmentso f Project results and support o f Project implementation.

The Government has selected the APL approach for the sector, rather than addressing investment needs
city-by-city and project-by-project. The sector policy issues, under the overall objective o f complying with
the environmental "ucquis communuutuire", are basically identical throughout Croatia's urban areas and
the model for addressing them was established with the Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
(MEIP). The work carried out during Project preparation has resulted in a comprehensive "Coastal Cities
Pollution Control Program" (the Program) approved by the Government on May 29, 2003 and on the
adoption o f the Program's Operational Manual.             This Manual covers all aspects o f Program
implementation, from appraisal methodology to the procedures to mainstream social and environmental
safeguard policies. The Government's strategy i s to initiate the Program in larger urban areas not yet
served with adequate wastewater management infrastructure, and to expand horizontally, and if necessary
vertically, in a programmatic manner. Additionally, the Government has established an environmental



                                                     - 3 -

regional onlending mechanism for this Program and i s in the process o f creating a Special Purpose
Subsidiary Company (SPSC) of Hrvatske Vode (HV), which will be in charge o f and responsible for the
implementation o fthe Program.

An APL approach will provide a framework for planning and implementing the medium-term investment
programneededto comply with requirements for EUaccession by helping HV, through the SPSC, to take a
phased approach to planning and identifying fbnding sources, while building the necessary regulatory,
monitoring, and control capacity. Individual investment subprojects ineach MWSC, as has been the case
until now, would have made such planning more difficult to conceptualize and implement, and a
"projectized" approach would have been less efficient from a management perspective.

Thus, an APL, with triggers designed to deepen the sector's financial, regulatory and management policies
and practices, was the logical choice for the next intervention. In order to acknowledge the speed with
which the Government and urban utilities can implement the envisaged measures and adapt and refine the
implementation procedures and safeguards, the APL is designed inthree Phases. Phase Ieligibility criteria
concentrate on developing the financing framework and achieving operational autonomy and financial
stability in participating MWSCs through the adoption o f adequate tariff structures and levels and
appropriate investment scope, while proceeding to Phase I1 requires that (i)        adequate monitoring and
control capacity i s inplace; (ii)
                                 Phase Iinvestments have been efficiently implemented; (iii) reforms
                                                                                              policy
inlinewiththe objective ofcomplyingwiththe relevant environmental "acquis communautaire havebeen  "
adopted; and (iv) relevant sector institutions have demonstrated their ability to implement the Program and
extend its coverage to the rest o f the coastal areas.


3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key Project performance indicators are (i)        percentage o f wastewater produced in the coastal area
municipalities participating in the Project that i s collected, treated, and disposed o f according to EU
requirements; (ii)percentage of population in participating municipalities with adequate wastewater
collection and disposal systems; (iii)  percentage o f samples from monitoring bathing and shellfish areas in
participating municipalities complying with EUwater quality standards; and (iv) the technical and financial
situation o f MWSCs in the participating municipalities, as indicated respectively by their level o f
unaccounted for water (where applicable) and sewerage network coverage rates and by their operating and
debt service ratios.


 B. Strategic Context
 1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedbythe project: (see Annex 1)
Documentnumber: R2001-0167 [IFC/R2001-0174;/1]               Date of latest CAS discussion: Sept. 18,2001

The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Croatia addresses the need to establish conditions for
sustainable growth and specifically addresses (a) fostering growth and creating conditions for
competitiveness through maintaining existing infrastructure and protecting the environment, especially in
the coastal area; and (b) reducing the size o f the public sector and involving the private sector in the
provision o f state fimctions.

The CAS Progress Report o f September 28,2001 reviewedthe Bank assistance strategy to Croatia and the
developments since its formulation (the last CAS discussion in the Board o f Directors took place in June
 1999), and redefined the main goals o f Bank support. Job creation, structural reforms aimed at reducing



                                                       - 4 -

public expenditures and the developmentof the private sector inutilities and infrastructure, and improving
Croatia's environmental sustainability, particularly in the Adriatic coastal region, figure prominently
among these goals. This Project directly supports these goals by contributing to reducing coastal water
pollution, a critical threat to the tourism industry and to the economic growth associatedwith it, and to the
fisheries and aquaculture sector (direct and indirect revenues from tourism represented in2003 22 percent
o f Croatia's GDP. Source: World Travel and Tourism Council, March 2003). The proposed operation will
also improve govemance and financial management of localutilities, by financing performance-baseddirect
investments, promotingtheir sustainability, andby developing an improvedbusiness environment favorable
to potential private sector participation. As the CAS notes, the tourism sector represents a key source o f
potential economic growth and foreign exchange for Croatia, and improvingthe quality of Croatia'scoastal
bathingwaters will be critical to growth inthe sector.


2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Incontrastto water supply, wastewater managementis deficient andwater pollution constitutesa problem
ina numberof Croatia's coastalmunicipalities. Coverage and quality ofwater supply services inCroatia
ranks highcompared to other countries inthe region. However, coverage for sewerage is only around 40
percent in households and 40 percent from industry and less than 12 percent of all collected wastewater i s
beingtreated. A total of 82 treatmentplants are currently inoperation, though most of these plants suffer
from operation and maintenance(O&M) problems and will needto be upgradedto meet EUenvironmental
standards as part o f Croatia's anticipated accessionto the EU.

The degradation o f seawater quality in some parts of Croatia due to inadequate discharges of raw sewage
has already resulted in visible problems, includinglocalized eutrophication and phytoplankton blooms, as
well as less-visible contamination ofthe marine life by organic and nonorganic micro-polluting substances.
(source: Nasci et al. 1998). Obviously, water pollution has a negative effect on ecology, public health,
tourism and fishing industries. Water pollution affects some of the main population centers of Rijeka,
Sibenik and Zadar, and importantly, many small and medium municipalities along the coast and on the
islands. Although some efforts are already under way to address the problem (particularly in Dubrovnik,
Split / Kastela Bay and Pula), the cost of no action could be disastrous for the potential of further growth
in the tourist industry, on which Croatia's development depends to a great extent, and for other related
industries such as aquaculture.

Basic background for the Program was developed in the comprehensive integrated study on SpWKastela
Bay, which was undertaken between 1988 and 1992 as part of the Coastal Areas Management Programme
 (CAMP) within the framework of the Mediterranean Action Plan (MAP). This study, prepared with the
 financial support of the World Bank, produced data and information on major pollution problems and
ecosystem hnctioning, allowing formulation of policies and definition of technical solutions, as well as a
 feasibility study for the integrated wastewater collection, treatment and disposal system.

 In addition, the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), which was recently completed by the
 Government with extensive public participation, concludes that protection o f Croatia's 1,780 km-long
Adriatic Sea coastline and 1,185 offshore islands must be a priority for both ecological and economic
 reasons. Although much has already been accomplished, the NEAP recognizesthat needs are still great -
 especially inthe area of water pollution control.




                                                       - 5 -

The recently prepared water sector note identifies three main sector issues that should also be addressed
whentackling the problems ofwater pollution inthe Adriatic coastal areas:

         Although MWSCs operate reasonably well, there is ample room for efficiency gains in terms o f
         better management, improving financial performance, reducing water consumption, malung water
         systems operate more efficiently, and reducing leakage. Reforms and improvements in this area
         are essential to allow MWSCs to undertake the large investments required in wastewater
         management and guarantee their sustainability.
         The lack o f physical infrastructure is matched by an inadequate institutional framework, both to
         create incentives for investing inwastewater treatment infrastructure and to provide overall policy
         direction. A sound institutional arrangement i s neededto provide strategic guidance and fulfill the
         role o f a national regulator for the sector. Existinginstitutional and policy arrangements are not
         conducive to ensure that scarce resources for wastewater treatment can be employed most
         economically, as the current investmentselection approach is driven by outdated effluent standards
         rather than an impact approach that allows prioritization o f investments to obtain maximum benefit
         interms of receiving water use and quality. Corollary to this assessment is the realization that a
         municipally-focused institutional set up is not always conducive to regional solutions that are
         needed to combat pollution and manage wastewater treatment infrastructure, particularly in the
         islands and coastal areas.
         An improved financing framework and additional resources for wastewater treatment investments
          are needed to improve water quality, particularly on the Adriatic Coast, despite the expected
         resources that might become available with an eventual EU accession. Financing constraints on
          local municipalities and the lack of institutional clarity have resulted in the absence of a reliable
          and comprehensive model for financing wastewater treatment infrastructure in Croatia. Because
          wastewater treatment facilities are in some respect "public" goods, with financial and economic
          costs bome in upstream municipalities and benefits accruing elsewhere, the key to the sustainable
          management o f Croatia's wastewater sector is to develop coordinated mechanisms at the national
          and sub-regional level for financing the construction and management o f wastewater treatment
          facilities.

Govemment Strateav

The Government has embarked upon a program to address the challenges facing the sector. The core o fthe
strategy includes:

Redesign o f the institutional arrangements for wastewater management. The Government has initiated an
overarching reform of the institutions involved in the management, financing, and oversight o f the water
supply andwastewater treatment sector inCroatia. The critical effort has been the consolidation of the role
o f HV as the entity responsible for planning and policy setting inthe area o f wastewater treatment and for
assisting in the financing of wastewater treatment infrastructure to municipalities responsible for local
water distribution and sewerage networks. For this purpose, seeking to secure the sustainability o f the
system, the Government's approach includes the strengthening o f HV and the municipaYregiona1 water
utilities and institutions incharge of the operation and maintenance of wastewater management facilities. It
also includes the harmonization o f national standards and those defined inrelevant EUDirectives.

Investment in wastewater treatment and sewerage exuansion in coastal areas.              The Government has
developed a comprehensive Program for the provision o f wastewater treatment facilities to improve the
quality o f the waters off Croatia's Adriatic coast. The Program foresees the assistance from the Bank and
from other donors @e., the European Investment Bank (EIB) has financed a Master Plan for the Adriatic as


                                                      - 6 -

part o f the Stability Pact for South Eastern Europe; KfW has recently approved a loan for investments in
the southem Dalmatia area). Along with investments in physical infrastructure, the Government has also
engaged in the strengthening of the technical and financial capacity of municipalities and local utilities,
throughtechnical assistance andthe promotion ofprivate sector participation.

Addressing the need for a sustainable financing solution for wastewater treatment. Given the difficulties
inherent in financing wastewater treatment infrastructure, the Government seeks to ensure the affordability
and sustainability o f investment through a combination of up-front capital grants (from Government
budgetary transfers and other sources), credit, local contributions, and user supported fees and surcharges.
HV,as the entity responsiblefor the technical and financial managementofthe sector investmentprogram,
will usean Environmental Infrastructure Financing Facility (E1FF)-approach to be implementedthrough its
subsidiary SPSC, which will be given lead responsibility for coordinating subproject design and ensuring
the technical and financial feasibility of the investment. Of critical importance is the fact that, while
up-front capital grants are being provided through the Program, eligibility criteria for subprojects include
explicit sustainability of investment and full cost recovery of operation and maintenanceexpenses.


3. Sector issuesto be addressed bythe project and strategic choices:
The Project addresses the near-term needs and priorities of the Government strategy by (a) improving and
expanding existing infrastructure in priority hot-spots along the Adriatic coast; (b) addressing strategic
institutionalreforms inthe Project area and at the sector level; and (c) supporting the strengthening of the
capacity of MWSCs through technical assistance, training, and specific investments. The key strategic
choices made during Project preparation were (i)      to focus on Croatia's coastalarea; (ii) include technical
                                                                                           to
assistance for the strengtheningof MWSCs; and (iii)       to adopt a phasedapproach, linkedto the institutional
reformprocess.

The priority areas for action are the Istria littoral and the Dalmatian coast, where pollution is more evident,
and where Croatia's tourism industryi s concentrated. By focusing on this region, the Project aims to have
an important impact on preserving the environmental resources on which tourism growth and its capacity
for employment generation i s based. Major investment in infrastructure in priority areas and "hotspots"
would help to both improve water quality in key areas and to develop replicable models for sector
development.

Government and the sector authorities have decided to implement a nation-wide program to improve the
productivity and efficiency of MWSCs. Efforts for improving efficiency and productivity will benefit from
the introduction of a "benchmarking program" which would allow Croatian utilities to compare their
performance with other utilities in Croatia and other countries. Utilities are beginning to implement
administrative and operational performance enhancement programs with time-bound targets for efficiency
improvements in utility management and operations. Most Croatian MWSCs have ample opportunity to
improve their productivity andthereby reduce the cost o f management and operations. For example, per
capita water consumption ranges between 200 to 300 Vd and unaccounted for water averages 35 percent.
Both of these efficiency indicators are poor compared to performance of Westem European utilities.
Utilities tend to be over-staffed, averaging eight employees per 1,000 connections (compared to 1-2
employees per thousand connections in generally recognized efficient companies in Westem Europe).
Technical assistance provided under the Project will help improve the productivity of MSWCs and
strengthen managementandadministrative systems.




                                                        - 7 -

Finally, the phasedapproach, applying simpler least-cost solutions, and the use of the EIFFand an escrow
managementof Project funds, represents a major advance inthe water sector. Such an approach (a) makes
more explicit and public the capital subsidy provided by the Government in support to local water
companies; (b) reduces the moral hazard inherent in passing resources from the Central Govemment to
locally-owned water enterprises; (c) supports the development of a market for sub-national finance by
introducing the commercial banking sector, in a limitedway, to Croatian municipalities; and (d) provides a
replicable model for financing municipal infrastructure, in general, within the context of Croatia's
decentralizedsystem ofpublic administration.

The Government's approach for the financing of these investments and its subsidy policy, on which the
Project builds, are based on the water pollution fees collected by HV from each consumer (all Croatia's
MWSCs collect this "HV water pollution fee" as a tariff surcharge, currently at 0.9 W m 3 , and transfer it
to HV) that, coupled with the adoption o f a phased approach and least-cost solutions, guarantee that the
necessary project surcharges to be addedto the current tariffdo not exceedthe levelsthat are affordable for
the population(see social analysisbelow for further details).



4. Programdescriptionandperformancetriggersfor subsequentloans:
The APL will be implementedinthree Phases over 10 years: Phase Ifor four years (2004-2008); Phase I1
for three years (2008-2011) and Phase I11for three years (2011-2014). The overall Program costs are
estimatedat approximately Euro 750 million, of which the Bank would most likely finance a total of Euro
140 million for the entire APL. Parallel financing by other donors is possible, particularly from EIB and
the EU(inlater phases), but is still to be identified.

At the end of the Program, it is expected that the APL would have delivered (i) policy reform hlly
                                                                                     a
consolidated and in compliance with EU"acquis communautaire"; (ii)       improved efficiency and complete
O&M and investment cost recovery in all participating MWSC; and (iii)        1.13 million additional people
(2.90 million if summer population i s considered) in coastal municipalities served by newhehabilitated
sanitation infrastructure (Phase I+ Phase I1+ Phase 111).

Phase Iof the APL Program i s estimatedat Euro 80.0 million with the Bank financing Euro 40.0 million.
As prior conditions for the first operation, HV has identifiedthe first year subprojects, in municipalities
which have agreed to revise tariffs to ensure sustainability and include Project surcharges sufficient to
guarantee the local contribution to investments, and will have established the SPSC. The first year's
investment program has been satisfactorily appraised, as have the Operational Manual and relevant policy
reforms. Additionally, HV has providedthe Bank with a ResettlemenfiandAcquisition Policy Framework
and the Government has communicated to the other Adriatic Sea ripariancountries the scope and approach
of the proposed Project. Works proposed are typical for the sector: sewer network rehabilitation and
expansion (primarily main collectors and pumping stations); rehabilitatiodexpansion o f existing
wastewater treatment facilities and submarine outfalls; technical assistance (TA) to support sector reform,
Program managementandthe strengtheningof participating MWSCs; and equipment andstaff training for
upgrading the monitoringand control networks.

There are five expected outcomes for Phase I.       m,there   should be a significant increase in sewerage
 services quality and coverage in the participating municipalities It is estimated that about 146,000
additional people will be served by newhehabilitated sanitation infrastructure, 225,000 if summer
population is considered, in the four subprojects for the first year that were analyzed in detail and
respectively about 300,000 and 850,000 on the basis of 12 potential subprojects used for determining the


                                                      - 8 -

scope o f the Phase Io f the APL. Second, coastal waters pollution in participating municipalities will be
reduced through the adequatetreatment o fwastewaters andtheir discharge through submarine outfalls with
the appropriate length and depth of discharge.      Third a more reliable and comprehensive monitoring
network will be established to control discharges and quality o f the receiving marine environment. Fourth,
the municipalities participating inAPL Phase Iand the SPSC should have achieved financial viability and
accountability, improved implementation capacity and be eligible for further on-lending arrangements in
subsequent Phases o f the Program.       Finallv, the sector legislation regarding discharge standards and
treatment requirementswould have been adapted to ensure better harmonization with the corresponding EU
Directives.

MWSCs would be eligible to participate inAPL Phase Iprovided that they meet the following criteria:

         Completion o f an Environmental Impact Assessment (EA) acceptable to the Bank for proposed
         subprojects
         The existence o fa billingand collection systemacceptable to the Bank
         Fullcoverage o fO&M expensesona cash basis
         Tariffs and project surcharges are approved by the regionalllocal corporation that are sufficient to
         cover the subproject local counterpart and sub-loan repayment
         The investment and financing planhas been endorsedby the SPSC and appraised by the Bank.

APL PhaseI1isestimated at Euro 130millionwithBankfinancing ofEuro60million. Investmentstobe
financed would be similar to those outlined for APL Phase Iinadditional municipalities o fthe coast and
further sewerage andtreatment expansioninthe municipalities o fPhase I.The overall objective o f Phase
I1would be to make a significant increase inthe numbero fpeople reachedbywastewater treatment
services, continue the process o f controlling coastal waters pollutionby expanding it geographically,
strengthen the sector's finances, and further improve the capacity o f the monitoringnetworks.

Triggers for Phase 11. During the Mid-Term Review o f Phase I,a comprehensive evaluation would be
made to determine the degree to which Phase Iobjectives will be met. Lessons leaned from experience will
be incorporated into Phase I1 design.       Triggers for going ahead with Phase 11, in addition to 70%
commitment and40% disbursement o f Component I, be:      would

          The performance indicators for Phase Iefficiency show that improvements targets have been met,
          including sewerage and wastewater treatment coverage (see Annex 1).
          The upgraded monitoring system i s inplace and functional.
          The Government has adapted legislation concerning the treatment and discharge o f municipal
          wastewaters incoastal areas to the relevant EUDirectives and issuedthe declaration o f "sensitive"
          and "less sensitive" areas.
          A Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) that deals withregional cumulative effects has been
          completed.
          Each MWSC seeking investment under the first year o f Phase 11, complies with similar eligibility
          conditions as of Phase I.

 Exit Strategy. The exit strategy for the Bank in the case o f poor Program performance would be built
 around (i)an evaluation o f progress on key indicators at the Mid-Term Review o f each individual
 subproject; and (ii)the failure to meet Phase Iand Phase I1triggers for disbursements, improvements in
 efficiency performance and physical investment. The key indicators at Mid-Term Review would likely
 include the increase in sewerage coverage (measured by civil works disbursements and sewerage network
 coverage rate), and improvement in the overall sector's financial viability (measured by the number o f


                                                       - 9 -

MWSCs likely to actually participate in Phase I1 that cover O&M cost and will be able to cover full
sub-loan repayment through tariffs andProject surcharges).


C. Programand Project DescriptionSummary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detaileddescriptionandAnnex 3 for a detailedcost breakdown):
To support the Govemment's Program, the first phase o f the APL will comprise a sector investment loan
usingthe Government's EIFF, to be implementedthrough HV's SPSC, to finance wastewater treatment and
discharge infrastructure, sewerage expansion and technical assistance, with SPSC acting as technical
implementing agency. HV will facilitate subproject preparationand implementation and coordinate funding
requests to the Bank and other sources. The SPSC would have overall technical responsibility for Project
implementation (including procurement) and specific financial responsibilities for investments in
infrastructure for wastewater treatment and discharge, while MWSCs would have financial responsibility
for investments in sewerage expansion.      The attached maps identify the municipalities that have been
identified as candidates to participate inthe Project and in the overall Program. These maps also present
subproject engineering and technical designs for the systems o f the municipalities o f Biograd, Krk, Opatija
and Zadar. These have been identified as candidates for the first year o f Project implementation and
appraised as part o f Project preparation. Overall investments for Phase Ihave been estimated on the basis
o f the investment proposed for these municipalities' wastewater management systems for those in the
municipalities o f Korcula, Makarska, Novigrad, Orebic, Rijeka, Ston, Trpanj and Vela Luka.

Consistent with the scope and objectives identified above, the Project (Phase Io f the APL) would have
three components:

1. Coastal Environmental Infrastructure Component (Euro 61.65 million -US$73.25 million
equivalent-), to finance investments inthe constructiodexpansion o f sewerage networks, main collectors,
pumping stations, wastewater treatment plants and submarine outfalls. Investments would be financed by
HVthrough the SPSC, usinga combination o fcredit, resources from the HV Water Pollutionfees, specific
Project surcharges, andtargeted subsidies from Government budgetary transfers.

As discussedabove, the operation is beingprepared within a dynamic institutional setting. The Government
is revising the role o f HV, consolidating it as the agency responsible for wastewater treatment facilities
throughout Croatia. The financing mechanism for the Project would reflect the success o f the ongoing
Bank-financed operations (namely the MEIP inSplit and the Eastem Slavonia ReconstructionProject), and
at the same time the aims to advance on the policy agenda for developing sustainable sub-national credit
facilities in Croatia. As inthe Slavonia Project, the Ministryo f Finance would be the Project's borrower.
Project funds will be on-lent to establish the EIFFwithin the SPSC, which will on-lend part o f these funds
to municipal (or regional) water and sewerage companies (see Annex 11presenting a schematic diagram o f
the proposed flow o ffunds).




                                                    - 10-

Under the proposed Project, the approach would build upon HV's experience to handle the financial
management o f the on-lending activities with the support o f the Bank, which will appraise all subprojects
on an annual basis. All procedures for subproject preparation and the criteria for subproject appraisal have
been defined ex-ante and includedinthe Program's Operational Manual, which the Bank has reviewed and
found to be satisfactory.    Detailed engineering and technical designs for the first year o f the Project,
including environmental and social assessments, financial models, and tariff schedules agreed-upon with
municipal officials, have been completed prior to loan appraisal.

Inaddition to an annual appraisal o fthe work program during Project supervision, the guidingprinciples
for subproject evaluation and eligibility include:

        Afinancial analysis, taking into account all sources o f financing (project and HV surcharges,
        direct Government subsidies, and tariff revenues) demonstrating that funds will be sufficient to
        cover O&M costs, loanrepayment, and depreciation.

        Locationpermits. Locationpermits are required by Law inCroatia before any public work can be
        executed. Inorder to obtain a location permit the developer has to produce an EA approved by the
        MoE. Compliance with this requirement is a condition o f eligibility for all subprojects in
        subsequent years.

        A least-cost analysis for each subproject, reviewing all options considered for achieving EU
        quality standards inbathing and shellfish growing waters inthe vicinity o fthe affected areas.

        Priority in terms of receiving water quality. Region-wide criteria developed during Project
        preparation define clear investment objectives and, based on these objectives, the Government has
        adopted a prioritized plan that ranks wastewater treatment investments in terms o f their cost
        effectiveness and sensitivity ofreceiving waters.

         Utilitypreparedness interms ofits abilityto contribute to capital cost, management andoperation
        capacity and financial viability. In this context, an assessment o f water supply and sewerage
        operations is also includedto ensure that they meet reasonable efficiency standards.

2. Institutional Strengthening and Program Management Component (Euro 4.67 million -US$5.55
million equivalent-),to finance equipment, technical assistance, training and studies to:

        Devise and implement an institutional framework for water pollution control
        Complete engineering designs and environmental and social assessments for investments after the
         first year o fthe Program and supervise Project investments
        Ensure the capacity o f the SPSC for Project implementation, evaluation and monitoring, including
         financial management
         Strengthen and bring utilities to reasonable levels o f management, operational efficiency and
         financial viability and potentially facilitate private sector participation. Technical assistance for
        the strengthening o f municipal water utilities would be provided on a grant basis by HV through
        the SPSC.

3. Strengthening of the Coastal Waters Monitoring Network (Euro 7.68 million -US$9.12 million
equivalent-) to finance equipment, civil works and technical assistance (see Annex 12 for details on the
 existingcapacity andprograms and onthe proposed approach) to:



                                                      -11  -

        Improve the capacity of the MoE network of laboratories for environmental monitoring to assess
        the impact ofthe Program on coastalwaters quality
        Improvethe capacity of HV's laboratories to assess the individual dischargesof municipalities and
        industries, determine the overall pollutants load contributed by Croatia to the Adriatic sea and
        evaluateand control the efficiency o fthe financed infrastructure.

The first part o f this Component, to be implemented by MoE, would be financed on a grant basis from
Government funds and loan proceeds, through direct budgetary transfers from the Ministry o f Finance.
The secondpart ofthe Componentwould be implementedbythe SPSC on behalfofHV.

Main Project costs, in US$ equivalent, for the APL Phase Iare summarized in the attached table below.
Detailedcosts per component and subcomponentare included inEuro inAnnex 2.

                                                                Indicative              Bank-         % of
                          Component                               costs      YOof     financing      Bank-
                                                                 (US$M)     Total      (US$M)      financing
 1. Coastal EnvironmentalInfrastructure                            73.25       77.1      36.63         77.1
2. InstitutionalStrengtheningand ProgramManagement                  5.55        5.8       2.78          5.8
3. Strengtheningo fthe CoastalWaters Monitoring Network             9.12        9.6       4.56          9.6
Unallocated                                                         7.13        7.5       3.57          7.5
                                          Total ProjectCosts       95.05      100.0      47.54        100.0
                                                Front-end fee       0.00        0.0       0.00          0.0  ,
                                  TotalFinancingReauired       I   95.05   1  100.0  I   47.54    I   100.0 I

2. Key policy and institutionalreformssupportedby the project:
The Project supportsthe reformo fthe sectorrecently initiatedbythe Governmentwiththe explicit goals o f
developing mechanisms for the expansionand sustainable financing of wastewater treatment infrastructure.
Specifically, the Project:

         Supports roles of both HV and MoE. The operation supports the consolidation o f HV as the key
        institutional player in the provision and management of wastewater services in Croatia. At the
         same time, it supports the Government's efforts to put in place an independent environmental
        monitoring and evaluation capacity in the MoE.          Such an approach is both consistent with
         international experience and in line with the shared vision of a well-functioning system for
        managingthe coastal ecosystem.

         Supports capacity buildingfor MWSCs through TA. The Program has been designed to support
        technical and managerial capacity buildingat the local levelthrough HV. It also has been designed
        to support the institutional reform needed to create a favorable environment for private sector
        participation, as a mechanism for enhanced management and for the mobilization o f additional
         financial resources.




                                                    -12-

3. Benefitsandtarget population:
The Project will have substantial environmental benefits with a direct impact on the populations o f the
Project area, which counts approximately 300,000 permanent residents in the coastal region (in the
participating municipalities) as well as seasonal tourists which increases population to 850,000 in the
summer months. Investing in wastewater treatment i s expected to have a direct and positive impact on
improving and maintaining the quality o fbathing and fishingwaters. The associated economic benefits are
expected to be significant, and meeting the EU water quality requirements for accession is an articulated
policy goal of the Government. In addition, Program investments are expected to have positive effects on
the viability o f the fisheries and aquaculture sectors, and detailed investment design will take into account
the impact on local fisheries and areas o f shellfish cultivation.

The rehabilitation o f the environmental infrastructure in the coastal area will ensure that Project benefits
reach beyond the participating municipalities, as improvedenvironmental conditions will enhance prospects
for the growth o f tourist and fishing activities and improve prospects for the multiplier-effect growth and
private sector investment which are expected to accompany the recovery inthe tourism sector. As the CAS
for Croatia explicitly recommends, the Project addresses the need for investments in infrastructure to
support the development o f the tourism sector, which is seen as a key to national growth in the medium
term.

Further, the operation is expected to have important environmental and sector-wide benefits as the Project
will assist Government authorities to consolidate their long-term vision for the rehabilitation and efficient
provision o f water services by sustainable local utilities. The Project will clearly enhance the capacity o f
local authorities to finance and manage water sector infrastructure during Project implementation and inthe
future. The Project i s expected to have a direct impact on the viability o f local utilities inthe water sector.

Furthermore, the constructiodexpansion o f sewerage networks in participating municipalities, along with
the general environmental conditions' improvement inthe coastal area, will have significant benefits on the
municipalities themselves, since the opportunity to connect new areas to the sewerage network will
facilitate municipahban expansion, increase the land value o f connectable areas and reinforce the
potential for economic development o fthe municipality.


4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:
The Project has been designed to be implemented based on the evolving structure o f the institutions
involved in sector administration. HV, through the SPSC, with the support o f the Ministries o f Public
Works and Environment, and local utilities will be responsible for the management and implementation o f
the Program.       Similar to the successful approach used in the MEIP in Split and Eastem Slavonia
Reconstruction Project, it is proposed that SPSC will receive Project funds (on-lent by the Ministry o f
Finance through HV) and on-lend part o f these funds to participating municipalities in the Program. The
SPSC, as the key technical implementing agency, would manage and supervise Project implementation,
reporting, procurement, and disbursements, controlled by H V ' s Department for Wastewater Management,
incooperation withthe respective water utilities.

For investments in the expansion and rehabilitation o f sewerage networks, wastewater treatment and
disposal infrastructure, the SPSC will on-lend Project`EIFF funds to participating MWSCs, which would
be the final beneficiaries o f the Project.      Municipal utilities, within the context o f the institutional
restructuring spearheaded under the Project, will remain responsible for investing in and managing local
sewerage systems. As such, they will ultimately be responsible for all aspects o f local utility management,


                                                      - 13-

including tariff setting, billing and collection.     As indicated above, the SPSC will ensure that (a)
subprojects are economically and financially sound based on an agreed-upon methodology for financial and
economic assessment; (b) the MWSCs are technically, financially, and institutionally capable o f managing
subproject implementation and repayment; (c) that financial arrangements, including any tariff changes
which might be applicable, are agreed-upon prior to subproject appraisal; and (d) that all safeguard
approaches are followed as defined in the Operational Manual. In addition, the SPSC will contract an
escrow agent (a commercial bank) for all aspects o f fiduciary management, including the establishment o f
sub-loan accounts for Project repayment. The escrow account fee' will be capitalized inProject subloans.

For investments in the H V ' s monitoring; infrastructure, and for the Institutional Strendhening; and Proiect
Management component, the SPSC will directly manage these investments as a commissioned agent o f HV.

Loan proceeds would be made available by the SPSC to MWSCs for sewerage expansion and
rehabilitation, wastewater treatment and final disposal infrastructure investments under Subloan
Agreements. For each subproject, an Escrow Project Account would be set up. The Bank would enter into
a Loan Agreement with the Ministryo f Finance inrepresentation o f the Republic o f Croatia and a Project
Agreement with HV. As the Project ImplementationAgency, the SPSC will be responsible for overseeing
the implementation o f the Project, including procurement, approval o f invoices for payment to suppliers
and contractors, and progress reporting for the benefit o f the MWSCs. MWSCs will be responsible for
implementing their Performance Enhancement Programs and the provisions o f the Environmental
Management Plans for their respective investments. HV has builtup substantial experience and capacity in
regard to the Bank's withdrawal application and disbursement requirements under the projects it currently
implements. H V ' s capacity would be transferred to SPSC, which will submit withdrawal applications to
the Bank and request withdrawals for the SpecialAccount (SA).

HV role in the project derives from its condition as the primary agency established to carry out water
management activities under the Water Act. It manages activities related to guarantee water quantities,
water pollution control, flood and erosion control and activities o f public interest in water management.
Approximately 70 percent o f HV expenditures are covered by the water use and user fees. The remaining
30 percent comes from the central budget. Although it receives hnds from the central budget, HV uses the
same accrual accounting system employed by independently managed state utilities. Annual financial
statements are audited by a private independent auditing firm. The accounting system is fully computerized
and the staff has extensive experience in accounting methods. For subprojects which have been reviewed
and approved by HV, half o f H V ' s consumption charge i s allocated back to the utilities from which it
originates. The remaining 50 percent i s used for economically depressed areas or for investments that are
o f a highnational priority. Of pollution charges, 93 percent are returned for investment and 7 percent are
usedfor administration. HV has regulatory control over all water activities, including water withdrawals,
construction o f domestic water supply and wastewater systems, pollution discharges, and sand and gravel
excavation.

The Project supports the Government's infrastructure financing approach which utilizes the EIFF for
targeted investments in key infrastructure for environmental protection and economic growth. For Project
 implementation, the SPSC would be responsible for managing the EIFF, the accounts o f which would be
held within a commercial bank as an escrowitrust. The SPSC would be staffed by personnel seconded
 from HV and line ministries and would have a Supervisory Board representing HV, the Central
 Government, and Project municipalities.      The SPSC/escrow combination would achieve three critical
 objectives indesigning the Project institutional arrangements: first, it would help to reduce the moral hazard
 inherent in intra-governmental lending through a more robust governance structure; second, the use of a



                                                      -14 -

commercial bank as an escrow agent would bringa highlevel o ftransparency and accountability, providing
comfort to the Bank, Ministryo f Finance, and local governments, alike; and third, inthe context o f shallow
capital markets for sub-national lending, the arrangement brings replicability to Croatia's infrastructure
financing supply needs, which will likely expandas the country proceeds towards integration with the EU.

Accounting, Financial Reporting and AuditingArrangements: The SPSC will be responsible, on behalf
o f HV, for maintaining financial records and will prepare separate Project and subproject reports,
satisfactory to the Bank. The SPSC will be responsible for preparing the consolidated Project accounts,
including reports for the Bank and, in conjunction with the commercial bank managing the escrow
accounts, will keep records o f loan proceed receipts and disbursements, including these from the Special
Account.     HV, the SPSC and the participating MWSCs would be required to have their financial
statements audited, according to international standards, by auditors satisfactory to the Bank. Audits will
be made available to the Bank by May 31 each year for the preceding year. The audits will include
separate opinions on the use o f the SA and o f Statements o f Expenditures (SOEs). H V ' s annual financial
statements will be auditedby auditors satisfactory to the Bank.

Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: The Sub-loan and ImplementationAgreement between SPSC
and MWSCs defines their mutual obligations for the duration o f the Project. These Agreements will
include monitorable annual or semi-annual targets for institutional performance, bill collection
performance, and operational efficiency improvements. These performance targets, which are included in
the Project Implementation Plan, will be usedto track and evaluate progress made towards these objectives.

The Bank's Project Agreement with HV and the sub-loan and implementation agreement between SPSC
and the MWSCs defines their mutual obligations in pursuing their respective responsibilities in Project
implementation, including engagement o f technical assistance, and timely and satisfactory progress
reporting. The Bank's Loan Agreement with the Republic o f Croatia defines the Borrower's obligations.
Annual reviews would be jointly undertaken with the Project agencies during a supervision mission. A
Mid-Term Review will be conductedinthe third quarter o fthe year 2005. An Implementation Completion
Report would be submitted to the Bank promptly after the completion o f the Project, no later than six
months after the Loan Closing Date.

'Initial discussions with some commercial banks indicate that this fee would be in the order of 0.2% o f
disbursedrepaid funds.



D. Project Rationale
 1. Projectalternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
  The team considered a number o f alternative Project designs, including:

  A coast-wide programmatic loanfor infrastructure investment. Inconsultation with the Government o f
  Croatia, it was decided that a more focused approach, centered around key areas o f investment and
  selected "hotspotsl' would better ensure successful Project implementation and develop a replicable model,
  with a clear demonstration effect, withinthe framework o fa medium-term program supportedby anAPL
  which couldbe used to scale up sector investments ina phased manner.

  A line of creditfor local municipalities to invest in wastewater treatment. Inthe initial stages o f Project
  design, it was envisaged that developing a line o f credit through the existing ,mechanisms for local



                                                    -15-

borrowing would be an appropriate approach to delivering financing to the local level for wastewater
treatment infrastructure. The Government's institutional arrangements, namely the strengthening o f HV
as the entity responsible for planning and supporting wastewater treatment infrastmcture, has obviated the
need for local borrowing for such investments (though they remain responsible for sewerage). Instead, the
Project has been designed to support the redesign o f the institutional arrangements and financing which
will be provideddirectly to HV for sector investments. Furthermore, such an approach was rejected(a) to
focus the Project ina way and allow technical teams from HV and the M o E to work closely with the Bank
during the initial stages o f implementationto focus the operation and ensure implementationsuccess; and
 (b) to limit and focus the overall Program investments so that a demonstration effect could prove
replicable, especially given Croatia's prospects for grant financing for environment investments in the
near future.

A comprehensive environmental improvement program including solid waste. The team discussed the
possibility o f financing an overall program for environmental improvement, including wastewater
treatment, sewerage, and solid waste management, with Government authorities. As above, it was decided
that a focused approach would be more likely to yield demonstrable effects that would allow the
 Government to more successfully develop its sector strategies inboth water and solid waste.

 In addition, during Project preparation, a number of options were considered for channeling Bank
 resources to the investment program inthe participating MWSCs, including usingthe Ministryo f Finance
 as a financing vehicle for local investment or using the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and
 Development (HBOR) as a financial intermediary to assess subproject viability and MWSC
 creditworthiness. Under the selected approach, for wastewater treatment infrastructure of which HV is
 the responsible agency, HV will finance its investment program through its overall budget, water fees,
 government contributions, and World Bank funds (and other credit sources) as described above and in
 Annex 11.

 For investment in sewerage at the municipal level, ingeneral terms, the team considered two options in
 additionto the modality selected:


0       Hrvatske Vode as Implementing Agency and Lender.          HV would take on a loan from IBRD
        (through MoF) and act both as the Project's technical management and as a limited role financial
        intermediary, on-lending to MWSCs at agreed upon rates. HV would be backed by a guarantee
        from the Central Government, and would directly bear subproject risk. This approach was rejected
        because it did not meet a core requirement that a financing mechanism be established which
        minimizes moral hazard and future bailout risk, which will last for a long time into the future as
        MWSCs repay sub-loans.


0       HBORas a SpecializedFinancial Intermediaw (SFI). The team considered working withHBORas
        a risk-bearing financial intermediary, under an approach which would build upon that used in the
        ongoing MEIP. In the MEIP model, HBOR acts as a financial intermediary and on-lends IBRD
        funds to MWSCs through its standard lending practices, with subprojects identified ex-ante and
        fully guaranteed by local governments. Under the risk-bearing SFI model, HBOR would have
        assessed subprojects on a rolling basis and made lending decisions based on the perceived
        creditworthiness o f MWSCs and local governments, while HV would have been responsible for
        technical issues. While such a model would have strengthened HBOR and helped to consolidate it
        as the Government financial intermediary to help spur the development o f a municipal credit
        market, the Government's strategy has now evolved towards the private sector, consistent with



                                                   - 16-

       intemational experience.     Furthermore, in discussions with the Government, the authorities
       expressed their concern over HBOR's capacity to play such a role in the context o f a complex
       operation, and while the risk-bearing SFI model was initially the Bank team's first choice, the team
       agreed to a more streamlined approach in order to avoid potential institutional conflicts during
       Project implementation.




                                                                           Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                               Progress(IP)    Objective (DO)

Municipal EnvironmentalInfrastructure                                            S                S
Eastem Slavonia Reconstruction                                                   S                 S
Other development agencies
DalmatiaMunicipal Infrastructure
(KfW and HBOR)
Municipal EnvironmentalInfrastructure
(EBW




MEIP. The MEIP has been used as the primary model for the design o f this Project. Inparticular the
design will build on the experience obtained with the financial management arrangements, on-lending
procedures and on the difficulties and lack o f management flexibility which have resulted from
multi-institutional implementation arrangements. The MEIP experience also demonstrated the need for
systematic public consultation and active information dissemination, which are incorporated in the
Project.

Eastem Slavonia Reconstruction. The Eastem Slavonia Reconstruction Project has served to consolidate
the role o f HV as technical Project implementing unit. Inthe implementation o f this Project, HV staff,
who will be seconded to the SPSC, have developed excellent capacity for subprojects evaluation,
procurement management, financial management and overall Project supervision and reporting. The
proposed Project plans to use the same procedures. Further, the Project makes a major advance interms
o f governance and transparency over the Eastern Slavonia operation, which, reflecting its design as an
emergency response Project, involved direct lending from HV to a local water enterprise.

3. Lessonslearned and reflected inthe project design:
Project design reflects the Bank's experience in the preparation and implementation o f environmental
management and urban water supply and wastewater treatment projects throughout the world, and
specifically borrows on the lessons learned from the design o f operations involving the financing o f local
infrastructure and reforms to institutional arrangements for local service provision in the wastewater
sector, particularly inCroatia.




                                                 - 1 7 -

 Some o fthe critical lessons leamed and applied inthis Project's preparation include:


0      The need for clarity interms o f institutional roles andresponsibilities among the multiple
       stakeholders at the Central Government andlocal levels
0      The need for a clear and transparent institutional structure when lending resources between levels
       o f government
0      The needfor enhanced public consultation indesign andpublic informationduring implementation
       of major infrastructure
0      The importance o f integrating Project activities withina broader context o f sectoral reform, with a
       focus on regulatory and legal issues
0      The need for effective coordination with other donors working inthe sector.

 More specifically, the Project has been developed inthe context o fthe successful ongoing Bank operations
 inSplit (MEIP) and Eastem Slavonia. Bothoperations providedmodels for the arrangements for Project
 monitoring and supervision, for coordination o f different municipalities and have demonstrated the
 capacity of HV to play the key role in the technical and financial management o f the operation. The
 design incorporates these implementation arrangements.


4. Indicationsof borrowercommitmentandownership:
 The Government has demonstrated its commitment to the Programthrough:

 a.     The ongoing reforms inthe environment sector, includingthe redefinition o f responsibilities for HV
        andthe MoEandplannedestablishment ofthe SPSC andrelatedescrow agreement
 b.     The allocation o f approximately Euro 1 million from H V ' s budget for the preparation o f the
        operation during Project preparation
 c.     Its intention to leverage additional government financing for Project investments through the
        development plan for the islands.

5. Value addedof Banksupportinthis project:
 The Bank i s uniquely positionedto add value in supporting the Project and the broader aspects o f sectoral
 reformwhich are ongoing. Specifically, the Bank contributes:


0       Broadintemational experience, both inprivate sector participation inthe water and sanitation
        sector and inthe design o fdevelopment projects inpost-conflict areas
0       Policy development expertise and experience inthe design o f institutional regimes for water
        resourcesmanagement
0       The Bank`s extensive experience indevelopment o f sustainable mechanisms for municipal service
        provision inthe water and wastewater sectors
0       The relationships to mobilize other sources o ffunds for donor cooperation.

E. Summary ProjectAnalysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit          NPV=US$ million; ERR = 11-24% (see Annex 4)
0Costeffectiveness
0Other(specify)


                                                    - 18-

The Project i s expected to generate significant economic benefits, including difficult-to-quanti@
environmental benefits. An economic analysis has been undertaken for the first-year program; given the
inherent conceptual and logistical difficulties in estimating environmental benefits using standard
methodologies, the analysis has focused on the non-environmental benefits o f subproject investment, which
include (a) greater productive activities, including tourism, tourism-related business expansion, and
shellfish and fisheries production; and (b) enhanced land values which accrue from both improved
environmental conditions and development opportunities due to the expansion o f sewerage network
coverage. NPVs o f analyzed sub-projects are substantially positive with economic rates o f retumbetween
11% and 24%. The results are reasonably robust to adverse changes in relevant economic conditions,
includingvariations intotal tourist expenditures and real estate values.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR =            (see Annex 4)
Detailed subproject financial analysis has be completed in cooperation with Hv for the first year
subprojects and reviewed by independent consultants during Project preparation.          Summaries o f the
financial analyses are attached in Annex 5.      In addition, a financial analysis o f the SPSC has been
undertakento ensure its financial positionis well established. The complete assessmentsare included inthe
Project files.


Fiscal Impact:
The Project would entail a fiscal cost since it involves the provision o f direct transfers and equity
contributions from HV to MWSCs.           The aggregate fiscal cost i s difficult to assess ex-ante, since
sub-projects will be defined during the course o f the operation. For the first four sub-projects analyzed in
detail, the Government contribution has been estimated at approximately 14.6 million, o f which 7.5
million would be in the form o f retumed pollution fees. Over the course o f the 4 year operation, it is
estimated that the transfers provided for wastewater treatment infrastructure would be valued at
approximately 30.5 million, o f which 18.7 million would be in the form o f retumed pollution fees.
Nonetheless, because the operation would ensure sustainability o f investments through full cost recovery of
O&M expenditures, it is not expected to introduce incremental recurrent fiscal expenditures. Further, taxes
related to project investments are estimated to be inthe order of Euro 17 million for the whole Project (9.4
million for the first four subprojects).

3. Technical:
HV expertise in this area, the abundant experience in Croatia in the use o f submarine outfalls and the
involvement of accredited international experts to peer review the solutions proposed, provide sufficient
guarantees on the technical soundness o f the proposed investments to be financed under the Project.
Furthermore, as indicated above, a least-cost analysis has been carried out as part o f subproject eligibility
o f the options available to achieve the Project objectives (reaching ambient water quality EU standards in
the subproject area).

During Project preparation two main activities were carried out to confirm the technical viability and
appropriateness o f proposed solutions. First, a peer review technical team composed by three international
experts with experience inthe MAP andinLatinAmerica was convenedto review three pilot subprojects in
Porec, Krk and Dubrovnik (Zupa Dubrovacka), Croatian legislationand procedures for Project preparation
and evaluation and criteria for wastewater treatment and discharge into coastal areas.                  Their
recommendations were used to refine the overall Program objectives, scope and approach, as well as the
specific environmental, social, health and financial criteria used in subprojects design. Second, feasibility



                                                    -19-

analysis and alternatives evaluation studies were performed on thirty (30) potential subprojects, which were
evaluated from a technical, financial and environmental point o f view. The reports for these two activities
are available inthe Project files.

On the basis o f these studies and following recommendations from the experts team, the Project has been
designed using least-cost altematives (based mostly on mechanical treatment and disposal of treated
wastewaters through deep submarine outfalls in less-sensitive areas with high dilution capacity) that
comply with EUstandards. Inparallel, the current monitoring network would be strengthened to assess the
impact o f the proposed investments and the degree o f achievement o f the EU environmental water quality
standards. On the basis o f this assessment, individual solutions would be re-evaluated and the need for
more advanced levels o ftreatment decided and implemented insubsequentphases o fthe Program.

4. Institutional:



4.1 Executing agencies:
There are no major issues expected from HV, or its subsidiary SPSC, the Project executing agency. The
experience gained during the implementation o f the on-going MEIP and Eastem Slavonia Reconstruction
Project support this assessment. The Project includes a sub-component to provide assistance to SPSC in
carrying out its functions in Project management so that their capacity i s sufficient to meet the large
challenges presented by a Program like the one envisaged. An analysis o f the financial viability of the
SPSC was undertaken during Project preparation and it was shown that the SPSC would be financially
robust based on the projected Program flow of funds. MoE's capacity to implement the small
sub-component under its responsibility, as well as to provide adequate monitoring and control of the
Project's results, is also guaranteed on the basis o f its experience in the implementation of other Bank
projects and onthe provencapacity inenvironmental controlresponsibilities.


4.2 Project management:
H V ' s performance in the management o f the ongoing projects in the Croatia water sector, including the
MEIP and Eastern Slavonia Reconstruction Project, has been highly satisfactory. MoE's performance in
other similar projects it is implementing has also been highly satisfactory. A recent review by staff from
ECSSD o f the monitoring o f environmental and social impacts, including the protection o f cultural
property, under the execution o f the MEIP and Eastem Slavonia Reconstruction Project, determined
Croatia's and HV's performance to be "best practice."


4.3 Procurement issues:
There are no issues requiring special attention. A full assessment o f HV's capacity to manage the
procurement o f goods, works, and services under the Project has been completed during Project
preparation. HV procurement practices under the Easter Slavonia ReconstructionProject has been rated as
"best practice'' for the region. M o E capacity has also been satisfactorily rated since it i s participating in
the Eastem Slavonia Reconstruction Project's implementation (under the Kopacki Rit environmental
management and rehabilitationcomponent).
4.4 Financial management issues:
A financial management (FM) assessment has been undertaken for the Project. Similar to the successful
approachused inthe MEIP in Split, it i s proposedthat SPSC will receive Project funds, through HV, and


                                                    - 20 -

act as a financial intermediary for the Program. The SPSC, as the key technical implementing agency,
would manage and supervise Project implementation, reporting, procurement, and disbursements, in
cooperation with the respective water utilities. Although the SPSC has not yet been legally established, the
Bank has had the opportunity to review the draft incorporation documentation and has determined that the
corporate governance arrangements are satisfactory. Core members o fthe SPSC have been identified from
withinHV. They willremain on the payroll o fHV butwill be secondedto the SPSC for the duration ofthe
Project.

The SPSC will maintain accounts o f the Project and will ensure appropriate accounting o f the hnds
provided.    The SPSC will be responsible for preparing Financial Management Reports (FMR) on a
quarterly basis. The formats o f the FMRs have been agreed upon. The SPSC i s expected to use H V ' s
FMS and FM practices. Establishment o f an appropriate FMS in SPSC i s a condition o f effectiveness. It
i s anticipated that the SPSC will utilize the systems o f HV and it i s upon this understanding that the FM
assessmenthas beenundertaken.


5. Environmental:                          Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessmentand EMPpreparation (including
consultation and disclosure) andthe significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
For the purposes o f O.P. 4.01 on Environmental Analysis the Project has been classified as Category
FinancialIntermediary (F). The Bank has reviewedboth: (i)     EAs for the first year subprojects; and(ii)   EA
guidelines to be implemented under the Project insubsequent years.

EAs for the first year suburoiects: DuringProject preparation each o f the first year subprojects (Opatija,
Krk, Zadar, and Biograd) has obtained a location permit that is required by Law in Croatia before any
public work can be executed. As part o f this process, as required by the MoE, an EA has been prepared
using standards that are acceptable to the Bank. The process to obtain a location permit also includes
consultation consistent with the World Bank's requirements.          This involved communities and local
stakeholders on the selected solution and setting o f the proposed infrastructure. By design, no subproject
sites will be located inthe proximity o f any protected areas or sites of critical natural habitats, as has been
confirmed during the EA, at which time the possible existence o f culturally or socially sensitivity areas
have been assessed.

Previous (2001) World Bank analysis o f Croatia's environmental impact assessment system has shown it to
be consistent with EU EA standards, and highly compatible with World Bank's O.P. 4.01. Therefore,
during Project preparation one o f the pilot subproject EAs (Zupa Dubrovacka) was translated into English
and found satisfactory by the ECA safeguards team. On the basis o f this assessment, it was agreed that
only the executive summaries o f the other first year EAs would be required for review by the World Bank
before appraisal. These EAs Executive Summaries have been submitted to the Bank together with evidence
o ftheir public disclosure.

EA guidelines: To be eligible for financing under the Project, subprojects insubsequent years will needto
     -
have approved location permits, thus ensuring that an EA is prepared and approved by the MoE. To
ensure that O.P. 4.01 requirements are met, the Project's Operational Manual contains a separate volume
 (Volume 111) on "Guidelines for Environmental Assessment o f subprojects.''        The Guidelines lay out the
procedures o f the EA in a format satisfactory to the World Bank and address the range o f applicable
 safeguard policies.

 During Phase Iof the Project, in conjunction with Component 3         - Strengthening o f the Coastal Waters

                                                     - 21 -

Monitoring Network a SEA will be prepared to analyze the cumulative impacts o f the Program on coastal
                      -
water quality. As part o f the monitoring system component, the SEA is included inthe triggers for Phase
11.

The Project is expected to have positive environmental impacts which relate to: (i)improvements inpublic
health through better water quality o f bathing and shellfish growing areas; (ii)  enhanced environmental
conditions as a result o fmore reliable wastewater treatment; and (iii)
                                                                      increased viability o fthe fisheries and
aquaculture sectors.


5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Each EA includes an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) to address specific local conditions. The
Guidelines include details on the preparation o f the EMP which describes the mitigation measures for each
potential negative environmental impact as well as the responsible party for ensuring the measures are
taken. Potential negative impacts generally associated with wastewater projects, which the EMPs will
address, are:


0       Impacts due to constructionpractices, e.g., noise, dust
0       Degradation o f sensitive aquatic environment due to discharge o fwastewater
0       Degradationo f neighborhoods or receiving water quality from sewer overflows, treatment works
        bypasses, or treatment process failures
0       Public health hazards inthe vicinity o f discharges
0       Odors, noise and emission o f volatile organics from treatment processes
0       Sludge disposal issues
0       Accidental destruction o f cultural heritage sites.


Due to the nature o f the Project, the EMPs will give special attention to the impact on receiving waters o f
the proposed discharge infrastructure and to the arrangements for the proper disposal o f sludge and solid
waste residues that might be produced in the treatment process. Potential negative impacts o f the Project
will be addressed by prevention or mitigation measures.           Additionally, the EMPs will detail the
environmental monitoring program requirements. Project Component 111, Strengthening o f Environmental
MonitoringNetworks, will support HV and the MoE in improving the coverage, reliability andaccuracy o f
the monitoring networks currently operating.


5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                      Date o freceipt o f final draft:

5.4 How have stakeholders been consultedat the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?

Local authorities, including elected officials and community representatives, have and will continue to be
involved in all aspects o f Project design, including subproject environmental and social screening and
review ofthe EAs for each subproject (to avoid relatedproblems that have affected the MEIP). As part o f
the normal procedures for the issuance o f location permits, full consultation activities have and will be
undertaken, under procedures that have been found to be satisfactory to the Bank.            The consultation
process is part o f the required EA and form an integral element o f the requirements for obtaining the



                                                      - 22 -

locationpermits. The guidelines for Environmental Assessment o f subprojects that are part o fthe Project's
Operational Manual include detailed recommendation on how this consultation process and Social
Assessments (SAs) will be carried out. These procedures have been developed during project preparation
on the basis onpractical experiences on six potential subprojects.


5.5 What mechanisms have beenestablished to monitor and evaluate the impact o fthe project on the
environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?

Integral to the Project's design is a dedicated component to monitor environmental impact.


6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The principal social development outcomes o f the Project are improved health and sanitary conditions for
residents and tourists and increased incomes from tourism by protecting water quality and improving the
wastewater management infrastructure for expanded tourism development. By all accounts, this i s a very
highpriority throughout the target area. Tourism is vital for the current economy o fthe Istria littoral, the
Dalmatian Coast and Adriatic Islands and future development requires action now to maintain the quality
o f the environment that attracts visitors and to ensure that the expansion o f tourism does not despoil that
environment. Proper wastewater management is key to current and future growth in all o f the coastal
areas. Some o f the major population centers have wastewater management systems, most o f which are
being upgraded or need upgrading and expansion.               Many o f the poorer, less densely populated
municipalities, which generally have more fragile environments, have been unable to invest in the
infrastructure necessary to manage wastewater properly, however. Moreover, systems need to deal with
huge seasonal fluctuations in use, meaning that a small resident population essentially needs to invest in
infrastructure that serves their own needs as well as those o f tourists, who outnumber them many times
over. Consequently, smaller and poorer municipalities are caught ina vicious cycle: they cannot afford the
immediate investment needed to meet their own needs, let alone systems that are designed to serve
short-term summertime populations, and the lack o f systems constrains their ability to increase tourist
revenues that would help pay for the systems.

This Project will enable municipalities to break out o f that cycle, providing financial support to build or
complete systems quickly, rather than forcing them to rely on piecemeal funding that never allows them to
complete the task at hand.       The Project will help municipalities find cost-effective solutions to their
wastewater management needs either individuallyor jointly. Inall municipalities, the issue has long been a
subject o f concem and prolonged discussions between citizens, local administrations, MWSCs and HY,
some o f which have continued for two decades or more. Water utility tariffs are expected to be increased
as the result o f the Project, but no subprojects will be includedwithout confirming that least-cost solutions
are adopted and that a financing mechanism i s used to avoid that the anticipated increases impose a
significant burden onthe population. The subproject specific SA assesses the willingness and ability to pay
o fthe local population. Inall instances, one objective o f cost recovery will be to ensure that as much o f the
investment and operations and maintenance costs as feasible and practical are recovered through direct and
indirect levies on tourists.    The cost o f connecting to the new system also needs to be assessed and
addressed, ifit poses a noticeable burden on people. For people who currently use septic tanks, new water
and wastewater tariffs are expected to be lower than their existing costs o f maintainingand emptying septic
tanks.

 Subprojects may trigger either OPN 11.03, Cultural Property, or OP 4.12, Involuntary Resettlement. In


                                                      - 23 -

the first case, the principal issue i s chance finds; in the second case, the acquisition o f land or
rights-of-way. Croatia has standard procedures to deal with both land acquisition and cultural assets issues
that are satisfactory to the Bank, detailed in the Project Operational Manual and, inthe case o f OP 4.12,
clarified inthe LandAcquisitionResettlement Policy Framework agreed by the Bank (see Annex 13). The
four projects includedinthe first phase will involve land acquisition, but no resettlement, and will not affect
any cultural assets. In each case, a detailed land acquisition plan will be prepared duringthe final design
stage, at which time it will be made available for review by the Bank accordingto the Policy Framework.

In addition to provisions dealing with safeguards issues, the Project Operational Manual also includes
instructions for conducting and making productive use o f SAs in each subproject. A SA is and will be
included in each subproject as good practice, based on the experience o f the MEIP, which illustrated the
problems that can arise in infrastructure development from inadequate consultation and poor public
information. The SAs provisions in the Operational Manual are simple and straightforward, offering a
standardformat to be modified according to local characteristics. As indicated above, these provisions are
based on the experience o f local consultants who carried SAs in six municipalities that were identified as
likely prospects for inclusion inthe first year o f the Project: Biograd, Krk, Markaska, Novigrad, Opatija
and Zadar. These SAs focused on a range o f issues common to water and wastewater projects, as well as
specific issues suggested by the experience in MEIP. The results o f the SAs have been presented to local
stakeholder workshops prior to appraisal, followed by a the incorporation o f SA provisions for the
Operational Manual.

Results o fthese SAs strongly support the Project concept and indicate that some o fthe issuesthat emerged
during the implementation o f MEIP may not be common in other areas.                 In each site, wastewater
management (water quality) was uniformly recognized as a paramount issue for residents, the reputation o f
the area and for hture development o f tourism. Without question, it i s a priority concern. In all cases,
there is a high level of.interest in the Project and high levels o f expectations.       The amount o f land
acquisition that will be required varies considerably, affordability and willingness to pay for improvements
i s also a variable, and the level and quality o f information about alternatives and current plans also varies
from one site to another, but i s generally acceptable. Based on the sample o f these six municipalities, it i s
hard to predict the extent to which investments will be subject to the "not in my back yard" response that
appeared in MEIP, but this i s not expected to represent a problem for implementation if the agreed
consultation anddissemination procedures are followed.

The SAs also highlightedthe need for the Project to help HV, MWSCs and local administrations improve
their communications and public information skills.         In this respect, the Project design will take into
account that the subject o f communications and public information varies from one site to another, from
simple information about plans and implications for cost and repayment to more complicated information
about technologies and technological choices, particularly in municipalities where residents and officials
are convinced that they need treatment levels and equipment that may not be needed and cannot be
afforded.


6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?
The key stakeholders in the Project are HV, MWSCs, local administrations, citizens, civil society
organizations, such as environmental groups, tourist enterprises, the media and contractors. Investments
will be demand driven, thus municipalities and MWSCs will play key roles, in collaboration with HV.
Relationships between the three groups are already well established. Although different parties may have
differing views on topics such as costs, technologies, and other technical questions, they all have
well-defined common interests that the Project will enable them to realize. Citizens have varying degrees o f


                                                       - 24 -

awareness regarding the progress o f planning investments and, use both private and public means to raise
questions and make their opinions known to decision makers. For the most part, however, there i s little
systematic public consultation, and public information is erratic, thus there i s considerable scope for
improving the official/public interface. Public consultation i s required as part o f the EA process, and
public notification is required for construction plans and system alignments, and both requirements will be
honored in the preparation and implementation o f subprojects. SAs will also offer another opportunity to
improve public information and identify fruithl communications strategies for each subproject. To assist
municipalities and MWSCs in carrying out these requirements, and improving their standard practices, the
SPSC will either include an experienced communications specialist on its staff or retain the services o f an
experienced public relations firm to help the SPSC and other stakeholders improve their communications
and public informationskills and practices.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaborationwith NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Environmental NGOs are strong and visible in Croatia, although their presence and influence varies from
one location to another. Preliminary results o f the SAs suggest that if local groups exist, they take an
active part in discussions regarding wastewater management requirements and plans. The preparation o f
EAs and SAs in each subproject will actively engage the participation o f NGOs and other civil society
organizations.   They are also expected to play an active part in public consultations and be invited to
collaborate indesigning and carrying out communications and public information efforts.


6.4 What institutional arrangements have beenprovidedto ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
SAs, institutionalized inthe Project, will identify anticipated site-specific social development outcomes and,
as appropriate, recommend steps that need to be taken to ensure that they are achieved. The SA will
identify social development issues ineach subproject and create a series o f benchmarks: current water and
wastewater costs (including both sewage tariffs andor septic tank management costs); current wastewater
management practices; willingness and ability to pay for improvements; expectations regarding costs, levels
of service and technologies; information levels; and potential "not in my back yard" issues. In addition,
each SA will recommend ways to mitigate anticipated problems and to monitor specific issues that need
special attention.


6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?
Except for specific issues that may be highlighted in specific SAs, most anticipated social development
outcomes will be captured by the Project monitoring program which, in addition to other technical
indicators, will focus on changes in coverage, real costs, tariff payments and the efficiency and
effectiveness o f public information efforts.


7. Safeguard Policies:




    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                     0  Yes 0 No
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                       0  Yes 0 No
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                   0 Yes 0No
                                                                         I




                                                     - 25 -

    Indigenous Peoples(OD 4.20)                                                  0Yes 0 No
    Involuntary Resettlement (OPIBP 4.12)                                        0 Yes 0No
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP4.37)                                             0Yes 0No
    Projectsin International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                  0Yes 0No


7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Full environmental impact assessmentsfor all subprojects inthe first year o f Project implementation were
completed prior to Project appraisal. Full EA o f each investment, including consultation and disclosure
requirements acceptable to the Bank, will be completed before requesting a location permit as required by
Croatian legislation. Summaries o f EAs and SAs will be submittedto the Bank for review.

According to OP 7.50, the Government (Ministry o f Foreign Affairs) has sent a notification to the other
Adriatic riparian countries (Albania, Serbia and Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovenia and Italy)
regarding the Project's content and proposed investments to be financed, even though the project activities
will not produce any adverse impact on quality or quantity o f international waters. N o objections have
been received from the riparian states to date.

Conceming OPN 11.03, it has been confirmed that, for each o f the four first-year subprojects, no cultural
assets above ground would be affected by the investments. For the following subprojects, yet to be
appraised, the issue will be addressed systematically. Preliminary drawings o f alignments are submitted to
the local Institute associated with the Ministry o f Cultureto determine ifthe construction would affect any
cultural assets. If so, the alignment is changed. This occurs long before the project proposal i s submitted
to the Special Purpose Subsidiary Company for fbnding. Consequently, the only likelihood o f triggering
OPN 11.03 i s for chance finds that are discovered during construction, during which time they will be
subject to the Croatian Government's very strict procedures for dealing with cultural assets. These
procedures, which are fully consistent with OPN 11-03, are described indetail inthe Operational Manual.
Consequently, during Project preparation, full compliance with OPN 11.03 has been ensured.

As sub-projects may trigger OP 4.12, Involuntary Resettlement, a Resettlemenaand Acquisition Policy
Framework was prepared for the Project, based on existingrequirements and standardpractices inCroatia,
which were also demonstrated in the MEIP and reflected in the Policy Framework and field experience o f
the Rijeka Gateway Project. The Policy Framework, which has been reviewed and accepted by the Bank,
requires a simple land acquisition plan for each subproject to be submitted to the Bank for review. In
compliance with Croatian laws and procedures and as part o f the land acquisition plan, the amount o f land
acquisition will be evaluated in broad scale in preliminary designs and refined during the preparation o f
detailed designs o f each subproject prior to obtaining construction permits. Inthe project, land acquisition
i s expected for right of way and, in some cases, for siting o f treatment plants and outfalls. The amount of
total land acquired will thus be small, generally a narrow strip at the edge o f a holding, in addition to a
treatment plant site. Each acquisition i s subject to a negotiation and appeals process that protects the
interests o f the landowner. The Procedures for both land acquisition and resettlement are described in the
Policy Framework and inthe Operational Manual, which includes more public consultation than is strictly
required. Compliance will be monitored during each supervision mission. The four first-phase projects
involve land acquisition, but no resettlement.

The Project Operational Manual has provisions to screen for safeguards-EA,          Involuntary Resettlement
and Cultural Property-and      provide detailed guidance for compliance with the safeguards, as appropriate.
These portions o f the Operational Manual have been reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank. As the



                                                     - 26 -

provisions ineach case are consistent with Croatian laws and practices, they require no additional measures
beyond presenting summary reports (EA, Land Acquisition, Cultural Asset Management) to the Bank for
review. Compliance will be monitoredclosely during supervision.


F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Project is expected to be fully sustainable. It has full support o f the Government and o f the involved
municipalities, which see these investments as critical in their future development and inthe growth o f the
tourism industry, on which they depend. Except for the construction period, duringwhich, by its nature,
the Program will require budgetary support from the Central Government, through channels already
available, the Project financed infrastructure will be self-financing usingthe mechanisms and tariffs already
inuse andwill not require extemal financial support duringits operation.

The Project will require budgetary support during the construction phase, but will be a net fiscal
contributor during the operations phase. Typically, in view o f the significant extemalities they provide
through health and environmental improvement benefits, wastewater investments require substantial
extemal financing other than from the direct beneficiaries.          In the case o f the Project, significant
extemalities are expected to accrue for the Croatian economy as a whole through its impact on tourism.
Additionally, the Project will generate taxes during construction that are larger than the net Government
contribution (after deducting the returnedpollution fees from HV).


2. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                                                  Risk Ratina      I             Risk Mitiaation Measure

 Municipalitiesunable to support Project                S           The state o f fiscal affairs o fthe many smaller
 objectives and neededtariffs changes                               municipalities on Croatia's coast i s tenuous.
                                                                    Many require improvements intheir financial
                                                                    management andtechnical capacity, and some
                                                                    are at the limits o ftheir debt capacity. To
                                                                    mitigate these risks, the operation has been
                                                                    designed incoordinationwith ongoing programs
                                                                    to improve municipal financial management
                                                                    capacity and to restructure the debt o f local
                                                                    governments. Inaddition, technical oversight
                                                                    will be handledbyHV.
 Future development and other sources o f               M           Although most and more important sources o f
 pollutionmight diminishthe impact o f                              pollution inthe Adriatic coast are associated to
 proposed investments inthe control o f                             urbanareas andmunicipaldischarges, the
 coastal waters pollution                                           development o fthe coast inresponse to a rapid
                                                                    growth might create additional discharges that
                                                                    mightreduce the impact o fthe infrastructure
                                                                    proposedunder the Project. Inorder to avoid
                                                                    this riskthe Project will require that the
                                                                    solutions to be financed are decided from a
                                                                    regional perspective, including all existing and


                                                      - 27 -

                                                       potential future discharges inthe area andthat
                                                       its impact be assessedusing the strengthened
                                                       monitoring network.
NwilllackGovernmentsupportfor                  M       DuringProjectpreparationthe Government has
heirroleinsector reformandthe                          codified HV's roles inthe sector through legal
inancingof municipal infrastructure                    instrumentsdevelopedinthe overall sector
                                                       regulatory framework and HV's responsibilities.
%omComponents to Outputs
~




idividual project designs are not              M
ippropriate or over designed




Local resistanceto proposedtechnical            S
solutions, locationoftreatment plants and
ise of submarineoutfalls for the discharge
3f treated wastewaters




                                                        approachwill be usedinall Project subprojects
SPSC, despite N support, will not be            N       Duringpreparation, athorough analysis of
able to implementandmanage sucha                        H v ' s capacityto manage the Program has been
complex Project                                         undertaken;basedinno small part ontheir
                                                        managementofthe ongoing Bank operationsin
                                                        Split and EasternSlavonia. Eventhough it has
                                                        been already seen that HV's capacity i s more
                                                        than adequate to handlethe technical
                                                        management and implementationofthe
                                                        operation, the Project includes financingto
                                                        provide for the strengtheningo fthis
                                                        implementingagency inProject monitoring,
                                                        evaluation andreporting.
 Overall Risk Rating                            M       Although the Project attempts a comprehensive
                                                        sector reform and involvesnumerous
                                                        municipalities, both aspectsthat mightincrease
                                                      . the risks, most ofthe institutionaldevelopments
                                                        have beenreachedduringProject preparation
                                                        andthe experienceandprovencapacity ofHV
                                                         and MoE inmanaging and implementingsimila
                                                         operationsconfirmedthat the overall risk o fthi
                                                         Project canbe consideredas moderate.
Risk Rating- H (High Risk), S (SubstantialRi




                                               - 28 -

3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The operation includes a number o f aspects that might become controversial. These and the actions taken
to mitigate the potential risk they represent for Project implementation are described below:
m,the      Project will require needed tariff changes and tariff surcharges to make investments sustainable
and feasible. As indicated above, the state o f fiscal affairs o f the many smaller municipalities on Croatia's
coast i s tenuous and no support can be expected to reduce this need. To prevent the controversy that the
necessary tariff increases could cause, HV has initiated a public information campaign in coastal areas
that, coupled with the specific SA activities in each subproject area, would inform the population o f the
need for tariff reviews. Initial reactions, as measured by the SAs carried out for the first year subprojects,
and confirmed by the local authorities willingness to introduce the Project surcharges and tariff reviews,
indicate that population understanding and support for these measures i s ample.

Second, there is a risk, as in any environmental investment program, that individual subproject designs
might be considered and questioned as not appropriate or providing insufficient protection for the
environment. Inparticular, one possible controversial aspect would be that subproject designs often include
the constructionhehabilitation o f submarine outfalls for final discharge o f treated wastewaters into the sea.
This risk is mitigated through (a) requirements that all subproject designs are subject to an EA that is
publicly disclosed and subjected to a SA specifically designed to address this potential issue in the
Program's Operational Manual; (b) experience gained during the implementation o f the MEIP, reflected in
the communication and consultation activities carried out as part as Project, and abundant experience in
Croatia in the use o f submarine outfall preparation; (c) a review o f the first year investment program by
outside, international specialists that supported and endorsed the adopted approach; and (d) assurance o f
compliance with EUDirectives on wastewater discharges and receiving water quality, inparticular through
the implementation o fthe monitoring network component.


G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The following will be conditions o fEffectiveness:

(i)       The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalfo fthe Borrower and HV.
(ii)      Establishment o f SPSC under applicable commercial law
(iii)     Adoption o f the Accounting Manual o f Procedures and establishment o f a FinancialManagement
system inSPSC satisfactory to the Bank

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
As condition o f Boardpresentation, the Government will confirm to the Bank that the agreed Statute for
the establishment o fthe SPSC have been approved by HV's Governing Board

The following are legal covenants includedinthe LoanandProject Agreements:

(a)       The Borrower shall make the proceeds o fthe Loan available to Hrvatske vode 0under a
 Subsidiary LoanAgreement to be entered into between the Borrower and HV under terms and conditions
which shall have beenapproved bythe Bank.



                                                      - 29 -

(b)      HV,through its Special Purpose Subsidiary Company (SPSC) will be responsible for the
management and implementation o f the Project. HV will sign an ImplementationAgreement with SPSC
definingSPSC's responsibilitieswithrespect to implementationo fthe Project.

(c)      The Borrower shall appoint auditors for the Project accounts and financial statements for HV and
the SPSC.

(d)      The Borrower shall ensure that HV maintains, duringthe term o f the Project, the SPSC with staff
and other resources required for Project implementationand satisfactory to the Bank.

(e)      The Borrower shall ensure that the SPSC and HV implement the Project inaccordance with the
terms and conditions o fthe Subsidiary-Loan Agreement, and the Operational Manual, includingthe
Safeguard Policies.

(f)      The Borrower and HV shall maintain a financial management system, includingrecords and
accounts, and prepare financial statements inaccordance with consistently applied accounting standards,
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures relatedto the Project.

(g)      The Borrower will prepare and furnish to the Bankthe first Financial Monitoring Report (FMR)
no later than forty-five (45) days after the end o f the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date;
thereafter, each FMRshall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar
quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.

(h)      SPSC will provide sub-loans to MWSCs under Sub-loan and Implementation Agreements
acceptable to the Bank. Under these agreements, MWSCs will be required to comply with the Safeguard
Policies o f the Operational Manual, including submissiono f Environmental and Social Assessment, and
Land Acquisition and/or Resettlement Plans, when applicable. MWSCs will also be required to met and
maintain, through the life o fthe Project, basic financial ratio as conditions for inclusion inthe project: (i)
operating ratio should be greater than 1.1; (ii) ratio should be greater than 1.2; (iii) interest
                                                   current                                        the
coverage ratio should be greater than 1.5.

(i) HVshallcauseSPSCtoobtaintheBank'spriorapprovalforthefirstfourSub-projects, andfor
each Sub-loan and ImplementationAgreements which involves acquisition o f land and/or resettlement o f
residents, and thereafter shall cause SPSC to submit for prior approval to the Bank the annual investment
plan.

G)       The Borrower, HV, SPSC andthe Bankwill conduct a mid-term review o f the project on January
 1,2006. The Borrower and HV will submit a mid-term report to the Bank by September 1,2005.



Operatingratio is equal to total operating revenue divided by total operating expenses
Currentratio is equal to current assets plus paid future expenses and deferred income divided by current liabilities
and deferred payments and future period income.
 The interest coverage ratio is measured as earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) divided by interest expenses.




                                                        - 30 -

  H. Readiness for Implementation
    1. a) The engineering designdocuments for the firstyear's activities are complete andready for the start
          o fproject implementation.
  0 1.b)Notapplicable.

    2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are completeandready for the start o f
        project implementation.
    3. The Project Implementation Planhas been appraisedand found to be realistic ando f satisfactory
        quality.
  174. The followingitemsarelacking andare discussedunderloanconditions (SectionG):



  I. Compliance with Bank Policies
     1. This project complies with all applicable Bankpolicies.
  02. ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedfor approval. Theprojectcomplieswith
        all other applicable Bankpolicies.




.-                                           umter Lee Travers
  Team Leader                               Sector Manager                        Country Director




                                                     - 31 -

                                    Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                    CROATIA: COASTAL CITIES POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
                                    Key Performance
                                        Indicators
                               sector Indicators:
Fostering growth and creating 3rowth inthe country and in
conditions for competitiveness he tourism industry                                            oastal water quality will not
through improving existing                                                                    dversely affect tourism and
 infrastructure andprotecting                                                                 Iurismwill continue to be a
the environment, especially at                                                                riving force for growth in
the coastal areas                                                                             :roatia
 Reducing the size o f the     Zfficiency inwater and           .nnual reports                'he proposed reform will
 public sector                 iewerageutilities                                              icreasethe efficiency o f
                               nanagement and financing                                       later and sewerageutilities


 Program Purpose:              Ind-of-Program indicators:        rogram reports:              from Purposeto Goal)
 The overall objective ofthe   Satisfactory compliance with     ,Ureporting procedures        :oastal water quality will not
 APL supported Program         ipplicable EUstandards for                                     ffect tourism and other
 would be to improve ambient   he Adriatic coastal water                                      lroductive activities along the
 coastal water quality to meet imbient quality                                                oast
 EUstandards

I




 Project Development           3utcome I Impact                 'roject reports:              from Objective to Purpose)
 Objective:                    Indicators:
 Improve the quality o f       Percentage o f samples from      innual MoE reports            :uture development and other
 Croatia's Adriatic coastal    monitoring bathingand                                          ources o fpollutiondo not
 waters to meet EUambient      shellfish areas water quality                                  liminish the impact o f
 quality standards inthe       :omplying with EUstandards                                     roposedinvestments inthe
 participating municipalities, inparticipating                                                :ontrol o f coastal waters
  ina financially and          municipalities.                                                )ollution.
  operationally sustainable

                               I'echnical and Financial         innual reports for each       vlunicipalities canmeasure
                               situation o f MWSC inthe         iarticipating municipal water itilities eficiency and suppor
                               participating municipalities,    .ndsewerage utility           'roject objectives and needed
                               (as indicatedrespectively by                                   ariffs changes.
                               their level o f unaccounted for
                               water and sewerage network
                               coverage rate and by their
                               operating and debt service
                               ratios.



I




                                                           - 32 -

htputfrom each              3utput indicators:                Projectreports:            from Outputs to Objective)
:omponent:
trengthenedinstitutional    The SPSC and the EIFF are         4nnual Project reports     I V will continue to have
rrangements for financing   :stablished and capitalized                                  jovernment support for its
ndmanagement of             mdparticipating MWSC                                         .ole insector reform and
Jastewatertreatment in      :ontribute to Project                                        inancing o f municipal
:roatia                     investments as planned.                                      nfrastructure.
mproved and expanded        Percentage o f wastewater         Annual HV reports          rhereis local support to
tastewater treatment        ?rodwedinthe coastal area                                    xoposed technical solutions
ifrastructure inselected    municipalities participating in                              )rlocation oftreatment plants
oastal municipalities       the Project that i s collected,                              mddischarge infrastructure.
                            treated, and disposed o f
                            according to EUrequirements
                            Percentageo fpopulation in        Annual HV reports          [ndividualproject designs are
                            participating municipalities                                 ippropriate and not over
                            with adequate wastewater                                     lesigned.
                            collection and disposal
                            systems
donitoring systeminplace    County laboratories               Annual HV and MoE reports  Laboratories with adequate
                            rehabilitated andequipped by                                 quality mechanisms and
                            the MoE and HV central and                                   controls inplace will be used
                            regional laboratories                                        for the monitoring o fthe
                            operational and                                              coastal waters quality and
                            intercalibrated                                              wastewater discharges



'roject ComponentsI         Inputs: (budgetfor each            Project reports:          (from Componentsto
hb-components:              component)                                                   Outputs)
?oastalEnvironmental        Euro61.65 million                                            HV will be able to implement
`nfrastructure Component                                                                 such a complex Project


i) Sewerage extension and   Euro 19.28 million                 SPSC Project supervision
,ehabilitation                                                 reports
))Wastewater treatment and  Euro 42.37 million                 SPSC Project supervision
lisposal infrastructure                                        reports

`nstitutionalStrengthening  Euro4.67 million                   SPSC Project supervision
md Program Management                                          reports
Tomponent

Rrengtheningof the Coastal Euro 7.68 million                   SPSC Project supervision
WatersMonitoring Networks                                      reports
Strengthening o fthe        Euro 3.73 million
Znvironmental Monitoring
ietwork
Strengthening ofthe         Euro 3.95 million
Wastewater discharge control
ietwork
Unallocated                 Euro 6 million
rOTAL                       Euro80 million




                                                           - 33 -

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                 CROATIA: COASTAL CITIES POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT

By Component:

-ProjectComponent 1 Coastal EnvironmentalInfrastructure Component. Euro 61.65 million, equivalent to
                       -
 US$73.35 million



Works proposed to be financed under this Component are those typical for the sector: sewer network
rehabilitation and expansion (secondary network -diameters up to 250 mm- and main collectors, including
tunnels, underwater passages and pumping stations as might be required for hydrological functioning);
rehabilitatiodexpansion o f existing wastewater treatment facilities and submarine outfalls.

Attached table below presents the planned investments for the four subprojects appraised duringProject
preparation. Final investments to be financed by the Project will depend onthe subprojects that are
successfully appraised.

                     II       Unit                 Krk        11 Opatija   11   Biograd            Zadar
,I--

/Sewerage
 secondary network           meters
                      ~                     ~~~




l  ain collectors            meters

l~stewater 11
I~umping   station    i11    number


 reatment plant          number(type *)                                                         2 (PRI, MHI)

                         number - length
 Submarine outfall       (m) 1depth (m)        1(60C                          . .i00/25/300)  2 (1,700/25/300;
                         diameter (mm)                                     II                   1,600/25/300)


                       ** MHI:mechanical, PRI; primary
                         * Rehabilitationand    expansion


Project Component2- InstitutionalStrengthening and Program Management Component. Euro 4.67
million, equivalent to US$5.55 million
                        -

Under this Component, the Project will finance consultant services and equipment to strengthen the
capacity o f SPSC to implement and supervise the Project and provide technical assistance to the
participating MWSC. Activities to be financed under this Component include:

e        Supply andinstallation o f informationtechnology equipment
e        Development o fwater pollutioncontrol institutional fkamework
e        Final designs, associated environmental and social assessmentsand supervision o f investments
         financed under approved subproject



                                                      - 3 4 -

0       Technical assistance to the SPSC for Project implementation and evaluation, monitoring and
        financial management
0       Technical assistance for the strengthening o fmunicipalwater utilities.

Project Component 3- Strengtheningof the Coastal Waters Monitoring Network. Euro 7.68 million,
equivalent to US$ 9.12 million
             -

Under this Component, the Project will provide financing for rehabilitating and equipping the county
laboratories used by the M o E for environmental monitoring of coastal waters, and for HV central and
regional laboratories.  Equipment to be supplied will include special analyticalllaboratory equipment
(atomic absorption spectrophotometers, toxicity testing, microbiological, etc), field vehicles (truck, boats)
for sampling campaigns, field monitoring equipment and probes and general laboratory material and
supplies.

This component will also provide technical assistance for training and strengthening the staff capacity,
introducing quality assurance procedures, including the execution o f intercalibration exercises, establish
sustainable and harmonized data collection and analysis mechanisms incompliance with EUstandards, and
carrying out special sampling and control campaigns. It will also include the design and development of a
detailed Water Quality Monitoring Plan including specification of station locations, analytical parameters,
and sampling/analysis/reportingprotocols.      In this regard, liaison will be established with regional
programs such as the MAP which provide technical and financial assistance towards the development o f
national coastal water quality monitoring programs, to ensure that no duplication o f effort is made.




                                                   - 35 -

                           Annex 3: Estimated ProjectCosts
           CROATIA: COASTAL CITIES POLLUTIONCONTROL PROJECT




I of the Coastal Waters HV LaboratoriesSubcomponent           3.95      4.9%
   MonitoringNetwork    Total
                                                              7.68      9.6OA


       Unallocated                                            6.00      7.5%

                        GRANDTOTAL                            80.00    100.0%




                                            - 36 -

                               Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
                  CROATIA COASTAL CITIES POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT



Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The major benefits o f the operation include (a) improvements in the environmental health in the Project
area; (b) enhanced prospects for future tourism and growth and associated employment; and (c)
improvements inlandvalues.


Because the methodology for estimating social benefits as regards investments in sewerage and wastewater
treatment is quite controversial and may entail conceptual difficulties (EC, 1997), the applicability o f
standard methodologies o f environmental valuation, such as contingent valuation, may be limited.
Consequently, the approach applied here focuses on the non-environmental benefits o f the proposed
investments in sewerage and wastewater treatment systems. The benefits stem from direct and indirect
results o f the proposed investments. The methodology selected is consistent with the guidelines utilized by
the European Union (EC, 1997).


To determine the net incremental costs and benefits, "with" and "without" Project scenarios were
constructed, applying appropriate shadow prices. Input data has been derived from data presented from the
feasibility studies, financial analysis, relevant tourism and shellfish productionsector projections, and other
publicly available data (e.g., data on real estate values). Economic Internal Rates o f Return (EIRRs) and
Net Present Values (NPVs) for individual sub-projects were calculated (utilizing a discount rate o f 10%
and a 10-year cash flow stream to be consistent with the financial analysis undertaken). Using a 15-year
projection o f benefits and costs, the EIRRs are considerably higher. The results are summarized in Table
A4.1 below.


                    Table A4.1: Subproject Economic Internal Rates of Return
 EIRR@I      10%
Novicrad 16.3%

Biogradna M o r u24.4%
 Zadar 23.2%

The high EIRRs reflect, in large part, the efforts taken during Project design to limit investments to
appropriate technologies and least-cost approaches.




                                                       -37 -

MainAssumptions:
The main assumptions, other than those included as legal covenants relatedto the financial performance o f
MWSCs andmaintenance o f appropriate financial ratios (see Annex 5), include: (a) collection ratios were
assumed to remain relatively constant based on historical data; (b) investment costs were assumed to
include a physical contingency o f lo%, an extremely conservative estimate given experience with World
Bank financed wastewater treatment investments inCroatia under the ongoing projects; (c) imputed yearly
operation and maintenance costs o f approximately 15% o f investment; and (d) population-equivalent
growth o f24%.


Sensitivity analysis/ Switching values of critical items:
Sensitivity analysis was then undertaken to assess the robustness o f the sub-projects by switching the
discount rate, values o f key variables (including tourism expenditures and real estate value benefits). Inall
four sub-projects, discount rates to yield a null NPV average approximately 18% (with Opatija being the
most sensitive at 13.2%).

FiscalImpact:

The Projectwould entail a fiscal cost since it involves the provision o f direct contributions from the Central
Government through Hv to MWSCs. The aggregate fiscal cost i s difficult to assess ex-ante, since
sub-projects will be defined during the course of the operation. The estimate which has been made o f the
fiscal cost o f the four sub-projects analyzed indetail indicates that Government contribution is expected to
be approximately Euro 14.6 million.        This figure includes approximately Euro 7.5 million from the
pollution charges managed by Hv which are revertedas direct H v ' s contributionto investments. Over the
course o f the 4 year operation, it i s estimated that the contribution provided for wastewater treatment
infrastructure would be valued at approximately Euro 30.5 million (Euro 18.7 million in the form o f
returnedpollution fees). Project generated taxes will amount to approximately Euro 17 million.




                                                     - 38 -

                                      Annex 5: FinancialSummary
                CROATIA: COASTAL CITIES POLLUTIONCONTROL PROJECT
Financial summaries for the appraised municipal utilities i s presented inthe attachedtables. Main aspects
ofthe analysisperformedduring Project preparation are describedbelow.

Krk

Ponikve d.o.0. Krk is a municipal utilitywhose principal shareholdersinclude the municipality of Omisalj,
Malinska-Dubasnica, Punat, Baska, Vrbnik, Dobrinj, and Krk. Total company operating expenses
attributed 2003 are estimated at HRK 25.5 million (Euro 3.9 million). Even when these operational
expenses are combined with depreciation, Ponikve's total business operations generates a profit estimated
at HRK 13,644 (Euro 2,100). Ponikve's modest level o f profitability i s a result of its relatively hightariff
schedule. Ponikve ranks as one of the top four municipal utilities with respect to its level of tariffs the
surveyed group. In 2003, household and business enterprise sewerage tariffs were HRK 1.74 m3 (Euro
0.27 m3) and HRK 3.16 m3 (Euro 0.50 per m3), respectively. Utility and municipal officials intend to
raise the tariff again inearly 2004.

Ponikve d.o.0. has a medium-to long-term investmentplanincluding collectors, pipelines, and wastewater
treatment operations estimated at a total HRK 46.8 million (Euro 7.1 million) for APL Phase I.Under
Phase Io f the regional environmental lending facility, Ponikve has a total financing requirement of HRK
46.8 million. Thirty-percent, or HRK 14.4 million (Euro 2.2 million) are projected to be grant or equity
financed from Hrvatske Vode. About fifty percent of total capital investment requirements, or HRK 23.4
million(Euro 3.6 million) is projected to be financed from a loan facility.

The loan is calculated with a tenor of 15 years, 5 years grace, and the prevailing IBRD interest rate. The
utility will need to finance HRK 9.4 million (Euro 1.4 million) from its own internal resources. It is
expectedthat the utility will increase their sewerage tariff by a minimumof HRK 3 to 4 m3 (Euro 0.50 to
Euro 0.60 m3). Financialprojections indicate that these potential levels of sewerage tariff increaseswould
be more than sufficient to cover debt servicing under several stress test variations. Despite having
comparatively higher water and sewerage tariffs than the surveyed sample group, average household
income at HRK 55,000 (Euro 8,461) i s also the highest in our survey sample. With projected tourist
inflows averaging between 45,000 to 50,000 personsper season, Ponikve is a municipal utility that should
have sufficient capacity to service a loanobligation of HRK23.4 million.




Komunalac d.o.0. Opatija i s a municipal utility whose principal shareholders include the municipality of
Opatija, Lovaran, Matulji and Moscenicka Draga. Operating expenses attributed to wastewater treatment
for 2003 are estimatedat HRK 3.2 million(Euro 0.51 million). Evenwhen these operational expenses are
combined with depreciation, the wastewater side of Komunalac's wastewater operations generates a profit
estimated at HRK 587,000 (Euro 93,000).        Komunalac's seemingly strong wastewater profitability i s a
result of its relatively hightariff schedule. Opatija has one of the highest water and sewerage tariffs o fthe
surveyed group. In 2003, household and business enterprise sewerage tariffs were HRK 2.49 m3 (Euro
0.40 per m3) andHRK 3.80 m3 (Euro 0.60 per m3), respectively. Utilityand municipal officials intendto
raise the tariff again inearly 2004.

The enterprise has a medium- to long-term investment plan for collectors, expanded sewerage coverage,
and wastewater treatment/disposal estimated at a total HRK 158.1 million (Euro 24.4 million). In 2003,


                                                     - 39 -

the utility and its municipal owners spent HRK 20 million (Euro 3.2 million) from their own resources for
capital improvement projects. Under Phase Iof the Program, Komunalac would receive financing inthe
neighborhood of HRK 79.8 million. Thirty-percent, or HRK23.9 million (Euro 3.7 million) are projected
to be grant or equity financed from Hrvatske Vode. About fifty percent of total capital investment
requirements,or HRK39.9 million (Euro 6.2 million) is projectedto be financed from a loanfacility.

The loan is calculated with a tenor of 15 years, 5 years grace, and the prevailing IBRDinterest rate. The
utility will need to finance HRK 16.6 million (Euro 2.2 million) from its own internal resources. It is
expectedthat the utilitywill increasetheir sewerage tariff by a minimumof HRK 3 to 4 per m3 (Euro 0.50
to Euro 0.60 per m3). Financial projections indicate that these potential levels of sewerage tariff increases
would be more than sufficient to cover debt servicing under several stress test variations. Despite having
comparatively higher water and sewerage tariffs than the surveyed sample group, average household
income at HRK 55,000 (Euro 8,461) i s also the highest in the survey sample. With projected tourist
inflows averaging between 45,000 to 50,000 personsper season, Komunalac d.o.0. Opatijia is a municipal
utilitythat shouldhave sufficient capacity to service aloanobligationofHRK 16.6 million.

Komunalac d.o.0. BiogradN a M o r u

Komunalac d.o.0. Biograd na Moru is a limited liability company established in 2000 with an officially
registeredcapital stock of HRK 20 million (Euro 3.2 million). Komunalac d.o.0. Biograd is owned by the
municipalities of Biograd, Sv. Filip IJakov, Pakostane, and Pasman. Komunalac provides sewerage, water
delivery, solid waste, road and park maintenance services for its municipal owners. Total Komunalac
d.o.0. revenues equaledHRK 17.6 million (Euro 2.8 million) and HRK 10.6 million (Euro 1.6 million) in
2002 and 2001, respectively. More than HRK 5.2 million (Euro 0.83 million) of the year over year
increase inrevenues can be attributed to a grant infusion from national government resources. In2001 and
2002, operating expenditures (excluding depreciation) equaled HRK 10.6 million (Euro 1.6 million) and
HRK9.5 million(Euro 1.5 million), respectively. Taking depreciationandamortization into consideration,
the net deficit as a function of total expenditures in 2001 was 14.1%. As a result of the grant in 2002,
Komunalac d.o.0. found itself ina net positive financial operating position.

Komunalac d.o.0. Biograd's tariff decisions are made at the discretion of the local municipal managing
authorities. However, tariffs have not been adjusted to accommodate inflation and increased capital
improvement expenses for several years. The subproject's inclusion in the initial year of the Program
would be contingent on the approval by the utility's municipal directors to of a recently proposed increase
inwater andseweragetariffs beginningin2004.

The subproject would include financing for main collectors, pumping stations, a wastewater treatment
facility and an improved submarine outfall. The total value of the investments i s estimated at HRK 64.8
million (Euro 9.9 million). In order to finance this level of capital investment, about HRK 19.4 million
(Euro 3.0 million) are expected to be financed from grant (or additional equity contributions), and HRK
32.3 million (Euro 4.9 million) is projected to be financed from a loan facility. The utility will need to
finance HRK 12.9 million (Euro 2.1 million) from its own internal resources. It i s expectedthat the utility
will increasetheir sewerage tariffby a minimumo fHRK3 to 4 per m3 (Euro 0.50 to Euro 0.60 per m3) to
cover this additional level of debt service. Financial projections indicate that these potential levels of
 sewerage tariff increase would be more than sufficient to cover debt servicing under several stress test
variations.




                                                    - 40 -

Odvodnja d.o.0. Zadar i s a limited liability company established in 1998 whose sole owner i s the
municipality of Zadar. The company's sole responsibility is to deal with municipal sewerage issues. Total
revenues equal HRK 8.2 million (Euro 1.2 million). O f this HRK 8.2 million in company revenues,
approximately 47%, or HRK 3.9 million, comes from municipal grants or subventions. Total expenditures
(net of depreciation) equals HRK 5.7 million (Euro 0.9 million).                When taking depreciation and
amortization into consideration, the total 2002 operational deficit equaledabout 6%.

O f the surveyed utilities, Zadar has one of the lowest tariff schedules applied to householdsand businesses
(enterprises). Sewerage household and business tariffs have remained fixed at HRK 0.77 per m3 (Euro
0.12) and HRK 1.07 per m3 (Euro 0.16), respectively over the past several years. Average family
household income provided by the service providers indicates that Zadar's annual average household
income is modestly greater than that of Biograd. In order for Zadar to participate in the Program, the
municipality would needto increasehouseholdand business sewerage tariffs to about HRK2.5 per m3 and
HRK4.0 per m3, respectively. Tariffs establishedat this level would create an environment of financial
stabilityfor the utility.

The subproject includes financing for main collectors, two wastewater treatment plants andtwo submarine
outfalls. The total value of the investments i s estimated at HRK 112.2 million (Euro 17.7 million). In
order to finance this investment, about HRK 33.6 million (Euro 5.2 million) i s expectedto be financed from
grant (or additional equity contributions), and HRK 56.1 million (Euro 8.6 million) is projected to be
financed from a loan facility. The utility will needto finance HRK22.4 million (Euro 3.5 million) from its
own intemal resources. It i s expected that the utility will need to increase their sewerage tariff by an
additional minimumHRK 3 to 4 per m3 (Euro 0.50 to Euro 0.60 per m3) to accommodate the additional
debt servicing requirements.

FinancialReauirements

All ofthe utilities participating inthe Program are expectedto meet and maintain throughout the life ofthe
Project basic financial ratios as conditions for subproject inclusion:


0        Operating ratio should be greaterthan 1.1.
0        Current ratio shouldbe greater than 1.2.
0        The interest coverage ratio should be greater than 1.5.

Operatingratio is equal to total operatingrevenue dividedby total operatingexpenses
Current ratio is equal to current assets plus paidfuture expenses and deferredincome dividedby current liabilities
anddeferredpaymentsandfuture periodincome.
The interestcoverageratio i s measured as earnings before interest andtaxes (EBIT) dividedby interest expenses.




                                                        -41 -

- 42 -

IOpatijaBaseCaseForecast    2003                                           2006           2007



                            4,252,500.00   4,366,813.41     4,585,154.08   4,814,411.79   5,055,132.38
                               43,000.00     43,464.42        44,333.71       45,220.39      46,124.79
                              325,044.73    329,052.74        335,633.80     342,346.47     349,193.40
                              119.15323      119.15323        119.15323      119.15323       119.15323
                            4,739,697.96   4,858,483.81     5,084,274.82   5321,131.88    5,569,603.80



                              464,96826     474,267.62        483,752.97     493,428.03     503a.59
                            1,350,000.00   1,360,269.%      1,387,286.15   4415,03 1.88   1,443,332.51
                              550,075.70     556,858.49       56795.66       579355.57      590,942.68
                              225,ooo.00    227,430.13        231,978.73     236,618.30     241350.67
                               77.611.91      75283.55         zu25.&?        70.834.29      69.510.63
                            2,667,655.86   2,694,109.75     2,744,038.56   2795,268.08    u
                                                                                          2 848433.08



                              920.000.00     920.000.00       920,000.00     920.030.00      920.000.00
                              920,000.00     920,000.00       -
                                                              930,295.83     937,650.00     937,650.oO
IGR0SPFmFl.r                1,152,042.10   1,244,374.06     L1409940.43                   -2


                              550,000.00     552,974.64       558,504.38     564,089.43      569,73032

I"""""""                      6o2.042.10     691399.42        B2kUfiu      1.024.124.37     1213.790.40

                              BQ2P4210       h91.399.42       851.436.05   1.024.124.37     uu.7qa4L)
I                                                                                                          I




                                                      - 43 -

       -
~~
iograd BaseCaseForecast                    2003           2004           2005           2006            2007           2008

KomeStatement


   HouseholdWater                         2,998,065.00   4,207,284.55   4,207,284.55   5,206,639.55    5,206,639.55    6,205,994.55
   BusinessWater                          3,517,776.00   3,957,498.00   3,957,498.00   3,957,498.00    4,397,220.00    4,397,220.00
   Sewerage                                 297,675.00     396,900.00     396,900.00     496,125.00      4%,125.00       595,350.00
   OUKls                                  7,717,515.13   7,794,690.28   7,872,637.18   7,951,363.55    8,030,877.19    8,111,185.96
    MeterMaintenance                      1,870,978.02    1,964,526.92  2,062,753.27    2,165,890.93   2,274,185.48    2,387,894.75
   ConnectionFees                         1326.133.72     1,339,395.06  1.352.789.01    1.366.316.90    1,379.980.07   1.393.779.87
otalRevenue                               17,728,142.87  19,660,294.81  19,849,862.0 1 21,143,833.93   21,785,02729   23,091,425.13


xpenditures
    (wers                                 2,187,02 1.09   2,187,021.09  2,187,021.09    2,187,021.09   2,187,021.09    2,187,021.09
    MaintenanceBuildings                    811,123.94      827,233.59    843,778.27      860,653.83      877,866.91     895,424.25
    Fuel                                     525,247.25     535,S32.84    546,243.49      557,168.36      568,311.73     579,677.96
    Mate& -Other Expenditures                843,040.01     861,966.91     887,825.92     914,460.70      941,894.52     970,151.35
    salariesandEmploymentBenefits         3,613,280.06    3,685,043.07  3,758,743.93    3,833,918.81    3,910,597.19   3,958,689.74
    FinandPaymenls                         1,622,464.91   1,573,790.97   1,526,577.24   1,480,779.92    1,436,356.52   1,393,265.83
'otalFactorvOverheads(excatDeureciation)  7,415,156.17    7,483,567.38  7,563,168.85 ,  7,646,981.62 ,  7,735,026.87   7,797,209.14


kpreciationandAmortization
    Equipment                              1,432,000.00   1,432,000.00   1,432,000.00   1,432,000.00    1,426,166.67   1,362,000.00
'otalDepreciationandAmortization          - - - -
                                           1,432,000.00   1,442,295.83   1,449,650.00   1,449,650.00    1,443,816.67   1,379,650.00


;ROSS PROFIT                              =-=
                                           5,300,518.48   7,112,159.96   7,171,714.01   8,337,523.92
                                                                                                   -    8,850,825.64   10,112,157.78

     ..
L-         tiveExpenses                    2,155,425.34   2,209,310.97   2,264,543.7s   2,321,157.34    2,379,186.27   2,438,665.93

  lPERA'ITNG PROFIT                       &145.093.14     4.902.848.99   4.907.170.27   6.016.366.58    5471.639.37    7.673.491.Q


  :BIT                                     2,au&ui4.902.848.994.907.170.276.916.366.586.471.639.37-




                                                               - 44 -

  zoo2          2003            2004         2005         2006           2007




2,372,490.00 2372,490.00   3,523,500.00    3323,500.00  4,698,000.00  4,698,000.00  5,872,500.
1,783,968.00 1,793,616.47  1,81155263      1,829,668.16 1,&47,964.&4  1,866,444.49  1,885,108.
3.941.032.00 3962346.80    4.00197027      4.041.989.98 4.082.409.88  4.123233.97   4.164.466.31
8,0!7,490.00 8,128,453.28  9,337,022.91    9,395,158.14 10,628,374.72 10,687,678.47 11,922,07525



1,476365.19   1,505,89249     1,536,01034  1366,730.55  1,598,065.16  1,630,026.46  1,662,626.
2,810,068.00 2,831,445.25  2,%37,W.32      295,433.92   3,004,342.60  3,064,429.45  3,125,718.
  511,000.00   511,000.00      511,000.00    511,000.00   511,000.00    511,000.00     511,000.
  897,451.00   907,143.97      !Z5,2&j.85    943,792.59   962,668.44    981$21.81   1,001,56025
   62558.10     58.179.03       54.106.50     50319.05     48.101.55     48.07725       48.07725
5,757,442.29 5,813,660.75  5,914,084.01    6,017276.10  6,124,177.75  6,235,454.97  6,348,982.53



2,712,881.00 2,712,881.00     2,712,881.00 2,712,881.00 2,712,881.00  2,712,881.00
2,712,881.00  2,712,881.00    2,723,176.83 2,730,531.00 2,730,531.00  2,730,531.00
P                             ~            P




--=-
-372,833.29   -398,088.47       699,762.07   647351.03   1,7?3,665.97  1,721,692.49


  488,607.00   498,379.00       50835.00     518,513.00    528,883.00    539,461.00    550,250.00

2 3 a f i u a - m - - -




                           -45-

                             Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
               CROATIA: COASTAL CITIES POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT

Procurement
The components o fthe proposed Project, their estimated cost andprocurement methods are summarized in
Table A o fthis annex. The procurement methods are presented inTable B o f this annex. The procurement
o f major contracts will be subject to prior review. Table B1 summarizes the capacity o f the Project
implementing agency, the SPSC, in procurement and the proposed arrangements for procurement and
monitoring. Table B 2 presents a procurement plan for the packaging and estimated schedule o f the major
procurement actions for the first year o f APL Phase I.The Project will be financed from the proceeds o f
the proposed Euro 40 million (equivalent to US$47.53 million) loan andthe local expenditure contributions
from the Government o f Croatia (Euro 40 million). The total cost o f the Project would be Euro 80 million
(equivalent to US$95.06 million).

Goods and works wholly or partially financed by IBRDwill be procured in accordance with the Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and revised in January
and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultant's services wholly or partly financed by
IBRDwill be procuredinaccordance withthe Guidelines for Selectionand Employmento fConsultants by
World Bank Borrowers published inJanuary 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May
2002. Standard documents published by the World Bank will be used by SPSC for the preparation o f
biddingdocuments andrequest for consultant's proposals. ECARegional Sample BiddingDocuments will
be usedfor National Competitive Bidding(NCB) o fWorks.

Procurement of Works. Civil works contracts estimated to cost over Euro 1,000,000 equivalent will be
procured by International Competitive Bidding (ICB) with post qualification based on the Bank Standard
Smaller Civil Works Document. Contracts estimated to cost less than Euro 1,000,000 equivalent per
contract may be procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures with the specific
conditions added to ensure compliance with World Bank Guidelines, as described in Schedule 3, Section I
Part C.l (b) o f the Credit Agreement. In addition, contracts to be procured under N C B have to be
advertised in the entire Croatia and the NCB Works document would be based on the Region's Sample
Biddingdocuments for Works under NCB.

Other smaller contracts estimated to cost less than Euro 100,000 equivalent per contract, will be procured
underMinor Works (MW) procedures.

Procurement of Goods. Goods and equipment estimated to cost less than Euro 500,000 equivalent, will
be procured by N C B inaccordance with the Bank Standard Goods Procurement Documents. International
Shopping (IS) procedures may be used for readily available goods of standard specifications estimated to
cost less than Euro 100,000 equivalent per contract. I S procedure will require quotations from at least
three (3) suppliers from two different countries. IS may be used for goods such as information technology
equipment. ICB procedures will be used for contracts estimated to cost Euro 500,000 equivalent or more
per contract, through the use o fBank Standard BiddingDocuments for Goods.

Selection Procedures for Consulting Services.         Selection o f Consulting Firms for services including
engineering and design, estimated to cost Euro 200,000 equivalent or more per contract, will be done
through QCBS. Selection o f Consulting Firmsfor services including technical assistance, estimated to cost
less than Euro 250,000 equivalent per contract, may be done through QBS method. Consultant services
including technical assistance, estimated to cost less than Euro 100,000 equivalent, may be contracted out



                                                    - 46 -

under CQ procedures. Services o fa standard nature, includingAudits and simple Design, estimatedto cost
less than Euro 200,000 equivalent, will be procured through LC procedures. Individual Consultants for the
provision of services including Project management support services will be procured in accordance .with
the procedures set up in Section V, 5.1 to 5.4., of the Guidelines.

 Procurementmethods (TableA)




                                               I          (14.34j        (11.77)l            (13.88j      0.4  (40.00
 1)Figuresmprentksesarethean"@ kamdbytheBank PRD). AU costs incluckmtinpcks.
                                      tobe
 2)h h x kcivilwnkiandgoodst0bepmucdlhwghMinorWorksp"shqpmg,axLFultingservices,senicesofm&ictedstafFof
 thehojectmanagementoffice,h g , technicalassistanceservices,andincremenfalopezatingcostsrelatedto(i) iheProject,and(ii)
                                                                                                    managing
 re-lendingProjectfirndstolocalgovernmentunitsasthecasemaybe.

                                   TableAI: ConsultantSelectionArrangements(optional)
                                                      MillionEuroequivalent




                                                                    -47-

Prior reviewthresholds (Table 6)
Contracts wholly or partially financed by IBRD will be prior reviewed according to the following table,
taking into account HV's experiencedprocurement staff -from which SPSC staff will be drawn- practical
experience inprocurement under the World Bank`s guidelines. The Borrower would use Bank's standard
BiddingDocuments for ICB procurement. The NCB Works document would be based on the Region's
Sample Bidding documents for Works under NCB. For Consultant's assignments, the Bank's standard
forms o f contracts would be used. All the ICB goods and civil works contracts, the first NCB works
contract, the first NCB goods contract, the first I S contract, the first MW contract, and all consulting
contracts exceeding Euro 100,000 equivalent in case of firms, and Euro 50,000 equivalent in case of
individuals, would be subject to the Bank's prior review. All other procurement documents and procedures
would be subject to the Bank's ex-post reviewon a randombasis inaratio of one into five. A procurement
assessment of the Agency will be undertaken duringthe first supervision mission. Provisional conservative
thresholds are proposed at start and may be revised after the assessment. (See Table B1: Capacity
Assessment)

                  Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsand Prior Review'

                                   ContractValue                                          Contracts Subject to
                                                         1
                                     Threshold                   Procurement                   Prior Review
II.Works
  ExpenditureCategory                   (Euro)                      Method                    (Euro millions)
                                   over 1,000,000                     ICB                        all: 28.69
                                 less than 1,000,000                 NCB                   first contract :0.70
                                  lessthan 100.000                    MW                   first contract: 0.05
 2. Goods                           over 500,000                      ICB                         all: 2.36
                                    up to 500,000                    NCB                    first contract 0.80
                                                                       I S                  first contract: 0.09
                                                                     QCBS                         all: 5.61
 foreign firms)                 between lO0;OOO and                   QBS                  above 100,000: 1.19
                                       250,000
                                  less than 100,000                    CQ
                                  less than 150,000                   LCS                  above 100,000: 0.00
                                        50.000                         IC                  above 50.000: 0.10
 4. Miscellaneous
 5. Miscellaneous
 6. Miscellaneous

                 Total value of contracts subject to prior review: Euro 39.60 million
                         Overall ProcurementRisk Assessment:
       Frequency of procurement supervision missionsproposed:           One every 12months
                                                                        (includes specialprocurement supervision for
                                                                        post-reviewiaudits)




                                                    - 48 -

                      Table B1: Capacity of the Project Coordination Unit inProcurement
                        and Assistance RequirementsinProcurementMonitoringSystem
                     (To be reviewed afterjrst mission of Procurement Specialist to Croatia)



'roject: The overall Project Development Objective is to improve the quality of Croatia's Adriatic
:oastal waters in a financially and operationally sustainable manner, through (i)strengthening the
nstitutional arrangements for financing and management o f municipal wastewater treatment
nfrastructure in Croatia and (ii)financing o f wastewater treatment facilities in selected coastal
nunicipalities. The Project will also provide technical assistance for engineering services, environmental
issessments and support o f Project implementation. The project will be implemented through the APL
rogram approach for the sector rather than addressing investment needs city-by-city                     and
)roject-by-project.

The APL program will be implemented in three Phases, spread over 10 -years: Phase I(the Project) for
'our years (2004-2008); Phase I1for three years (2007-201 1) and Phase I11for three years (201 1-2014).
The overall Program costs are estimated at approximately Euro 750 million, o f which the Bank would
nost likely finance a total o f Euro 140 million for the three phases. Parallel financing by other donors is
Iossible, particularly from EIB and the EU (in later phases), but is still to be identified. Phase Io f the
4PL Program (the Project) is estimated at Euro 80 million with the Bank financing Euro 40 million and
.ncludesthe following components (an unallocated amount o f 6 million is reserved):

(I)      Coastal Environmental Infrastructure Component. Euro 61.65 million             - rehabilitation and
:xpansion o f sewer network, existing wastewater treatment facilities and submarine outfalls.
(2)      Institutional Strengthening and Program Management Component. Euro 4.67 million                   -
:onsultant services and equipment to strengthen the capacity o f SPSC (subsidiary company o f HV) to
:any out the project and provide technical assistanceto the participating water companies (MWSC).
(3)      Strengthening of the Coastal Waters Monitoring Network Euro 7.68 million - special
ana1yticalAaboratory equipment)vehicles for sampling campaigns) field monitoring equipment, etc.


OrganizationalArrangement: The overall implementation responsibility for the proposed project rests
with Hrvatske Vode (HV) and local utilities. HV will use its subsidiary company           - Special Purpose
Subsidiary Company (SPSC) - for the management and implementation o f the project. The SPSC will be
established prior to Effectiveness. HV`s performance inthe project management o f the on-going Eastem
Slavonia Reconstruction Project has been highly satisfactory and its procurement practices has been rated
as "best practice" for the ECA Region. SPSC will receive 3 procurement specialists from HV who have
demonstrated the "best practice" inthe procurement while implementingthe Reconstruction project. The
Reconstruction project has similar components to the proposed project, therefore, it is expected that the
procurement under the project would be satisfactory. This will be checked during the assessment o f the
procurement capacity o fthe Implementing Agency.

CPAR: The latest Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Croatia was carried out by the
Bank inAugust 1999. The Bank's assessment was based on the "Public Procurement Law, December 19,
1997" besides other laws andregulations.

According to the CPAR the 1997 Public Procurement Law (PPL) came into force on March 9, 1998. The
PPL follows UNCITRAL model law. The PPL replaces the procurement decrees o f 1995, 1996 and 1997.
The PPL is not applicable to procurement under international agreements, grant-funded procurement,
procurement relating to defense and national security, and for urgent rehabilitation o f damages causedby
natural disasters and emergencies.

The CPAR indicates that according to the assessments provided by the task team leaders o f the



                                                         - 49 -

3ank-financed projects thenunder implementation, the overall procurement performance in these projects
s generally satisfactory except some cases o f delays in evaluations and contract award, and some
,ebiddings. It also states that there are some problems reported for the portfolio under implementation
vhich include: negotiations with bidders after selection, lack o f delegation of authority which resulted in
Iecision-making delays, frequent cost overruns in works specially those relating to landmine clearing;
nadequate and inappropriate technical specifications, lack o f security for advance payment, and
ion-auditing o f some Bank-financedcontracts.

aecommendedThresholds for ProcurementMethods

The CPAR states that the analysis of the public and private sector environment in Croatia indicates that
he country has fair and transparent competitive policies and procedures in place, therefore, from the
xocurement point o f view, Croatia is an average risk country. The following threshold o f procurement
nethods were recommended by the CPAR. The task team will review the thresholds for procurement
nethod duringthe appraisal, since the CPAR review was carried out about 5 years ago.

ProcurementMethod                 Thresholds

[CB Works                         Euro 1,000,000 or more
YCB Works                         <Euro 1,000,000
[CB Goods                         >Euro 500,000
NCB Goods                         <Euro 500,000
[S                                  <Euro 100,000
NS                                 <Euro 50,000
Minor Civil Works                <Euro 100,000


ActionPlanto Further DevelopProcurementCapacity

The following action plan is proposed inorder to hrther develop the procurement capacity of HV, namely
SPSC, taking into account the nature o f procurement and size o f packages.

(i)      All three procurement staff from HV shouldbetransferred to SPSCbefore Effectiveness;
(ii)     Training course to update the procurement knowledge o fthe staff at the ILO Turin or equivalent;
(iii)    Project Launch Workshop after Project Effectiveness.


PriorReviewThresholdsandSupervisionPlan

It is recommended that given the ample experience of HV (SPSC) procurement staff with B a d
procurement procedures and the demonstrated best practice in procurement, the following prior reviev
thresholds should apply, as recommended by the CPAR, until next mission o f Procurement Specialist ir
Croatia.   These thresholds might be raised after assessment o f the Procurement capacity o f tht
implementing agency.

    - For works: more than Euro 1,000,000
    -- For
       For goods: more than Euro 500,000
           consultants      Firm:more than Euro 100,000
                            Individual: more than Euro 50,000

The first contract under IS andthe first contract under Minor Civil Works will be subject to Prior Review.

Post review o f the contracts is recommended for one contract from ten. Post review missions should be



                                                        - 50 -

Iconducted not less than in six months.                                                                            I

 Country Procurement Assessment Report status:             Are the bidding documentsfor theprocurement actions
 A CountryProcurementAssessment Reportwas issued           for thefirst year ready by negotiations:
 on August 9, 1999.                                        No.



 EstimatedDate of Project Launch Workshop: September 2004.
 Date of publication of General Procurement Notice: September 2004
 Indicate if thereisprocurement subject to mandatorySPN in DevelopmentBusiness: Yes
 DomesticPreference for Goods: No.
 DomesticPreference for Works, if applicable: No.
 RetroactiveFinancine: Yes           Proiect Preoaration Facilitv:No      Advance Procurement: No


 Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
 SPSC will have the responsibility for installation and management of the procurement monitoring system for its
 componentsdescribedabove. All prior reviewindicatedinTable B will be reviewedby a PS or PAS andthe relevant
 technical staff. Procurementinformation will be collected and recorded by SPSC and submittedto the Bank in the
 quarterly progressreports. This information would include a procurement plan including: (a) revisedcost estimates
 for individual contracts; (b) revisedtiming of procurementactions including advertising,bidding, contractaward and
 completion time for individual contracts; and (c) compliance with threshold limits on specific methods of
 procurementandenvisagedaddenda.
 Cofinancing: Explain briefly theProcurement arrangements under co-financing:
 Co-financingis expectedat later stage of the APL programimplementation.
   SECTION4: PROCUREMENTSTAFFING
 Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staffpart of Task Team responsiblefor theprocurement in the
 Project:
 Name: Salim Benouniche, Sr. ProcurementSpecialist, (202) 458-7581, sbenouniche@worldbank.org
 Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement:
 Procurementsupport is currently not envisionedfrom the ResidentMission.



    Procurement and implementation plan in project files
                              ..
  I\Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment o f Agency's Capacity to Implement
   Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.




                                                             - 51 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Managementand Disbursement Arrangements
                CROATIA: COASTAL CITIES POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT

Financial Manapement
1. Summary ofthe FinancialManagementAssessment
Country Issues

The reforms carried out to date in the area o f financial management put Croatia ahead o f many other EU
countries. Croatia has established a modem legal and regulatory framework, compatible with the needs o f
a market-driven economy, completely discarded the old accounting system and opted to introduce a
comprehensive new framework based on international guidelines.

Implementing Entity

The Project has been designed to be implemented based on the evolving structure o f the institutions
involved in sector administration. HV, through the SPSC, with the support o f the Ministry o f the Sea,
Transport, Tourism and Development and the Ministry o f Environmental Protection, Physical Planning,
and Construction and local utilities will be responsible for the management and implementation o f the
Program. Similar to the successful approach used in the MEIP in Split, it is proposed that SPSC will
receive Project funds and act as a financial intermediary for the Program. The SPSC, as the key technical
implementing agency, would manage and supervise Project implementation, reporting, procurement, and
disbursements, through its Department for Wastewater Management, in cooperation with the respective
water utilities.

Although the SPSC has not yet been legally established, the Bank has had the opportunity to review the
draft incorporation documentation and has determined that the corporate governance arrangements are
satisfactory.

Staffing.

Core members of the SPSC have been identified from within HV. They will remain on the payroll o f HV
butwill be seconded to the SPSC for the duration o fthe Project.

Accounting Policies and Procedures.

Acting as the Project Monitoring Unit (PMU), the SPSC will take all necessary steps to ensure that the
Project complies with the relevant Bank policies.        This would include the establishment o f proper
accounting procedures and internal controls, which will be documented in the Operational Manual. The
Operational Manual has been preparedand approved by the Bank.

Reporting and Monitoring.

The SPSC will maintain accounts o f the Project and will ensure appropriate accounting o f the funds
provided.    The SPSC will be responsible for preparing Financial Management Reports (FMR) on a
quarterly basis. The formats o fthe FMRshave been agreed upon. The FMRs will include:

         Project Sources and Uses o fFunds
         Uses o f Fundsby Project Activity


                                                    - 52 -

        Special Account (SA) Statement
        Receivableslisting (sub-loans to MWSCs) including details o frepayments as appropriate
        Project Progress Reporting
        Procurement Reporting.


Information Systems.

The SPSC i s expected to use H V ' s FMS. Establishment o f an appropriate FMS in SPSC is a condition o f
Effectiveness. It i s anticipated that the SPSC will utilize the systems o f HV and it is upon this
understandingthat the FMassessmenthas been undertaken.

Supervision Plan

Progress o f Project implementation, with respect to financial management aspects will be monitored in
detail during supervision missions. FMRs will be reviewed on a quarterly basis by the field based FMS
and the results or issues followed up duringthe supervision missions. Audit reports o f the Project will be
reviewed and issues identified and followed up.

2. Audit Arrangements
The SPSC will appoint independent auditors under Terms o f Reference (TOR) acceptable to the Bank (the
TORShave been reviewed and deemed Satisfactory). Audited Company and Project Financial Statements
will be submitted to the Bank within five months after end o f each year audited. Costs o f the audit may be
financed by the Loan.
3. DisbursementArrangements
Disbursements arrangements for the Project will be made based on traditional disbursement methods (i.e.,
from the Special Account with reimbursements made based on SOEs and full documentation, and direct
payments. To facilitate timely Project implementation, the SPSC will establish, maintain and operate the
SpecialAccount (SA) under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.

 Allocation of loan proceeds(Table C)
                                             Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
                                                                       I                  I
                                    Expenditure Category                   Amount in            Financing
                                                                          million EUR          Percentage
                       Works                                                  28.50               50%
                        Goods                                                  5.10               50%
                        Services                                               3.40               50%
                        Unallocated                                            3.00                  -

                        Total Project Costs with Bank Financing               40.00


 Use of statements of expenditures(SOEs):

Project funds will be initially disbursed under the Bank's established procedures, including SOEs.
Disbursements made on the basis o f SOEs will be as follows for each expenditure category: (a) goods
under contracts costing less than Euro 500,000 equivalent each, with the exception o f the first contracts



                                                  - 53 -

procured under NCB and IS; (b) works under contracts costing less than Euro 1,000,000 equivalent each,
with the exception o f the first contracts procured under NCB and MW; (c) services under contracts less
than Euro 100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms, and less than Euro 50,000 equivalent each for
individual consultants; and (d) recurrent costs, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.   ,
Supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained by the Borrower, be made available to the Bank
during Project supervision, and be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Disbursements for expenditures above these thresholds will be made against presentation of full
documentationrelating to those expenditures.


 Special account:
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, a SA will be established in a commercial Bank
acceptable to the Bank. The SA is expected to be established in the same commercial bank which would
provide fiduciary management for the escrow accounts. Consistent with Bank policy, Bank funds in the
special account would be maintained separately from the escrow arrangements, the latter o f which are
established both (a) to pool local contributions for counterpart financing o f investment and (b) to handle
repayment from MWSCs. The SA will be maintained and operated by the SPSC under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.

The Bank would, upon request, make authorized allocations o f Euro 1.5 million into the SA. Applications
for the replenishment o f the SA would be submitted on a monthly basis, or when about 20 percent o f the
initial deposit has been used, whichever comes first. The replenishment applications will be supported by
the necessary documentation, in accordance with Bank guidelines, including the S A bank statements and a
reconciliation o fthe bank statements to the Project's accounting records. The SPSC will be responsible for
the appropriate accounting o f Project funds providedunder the loan, for reporting on the use o fthese finds,
and for ensuring that audits o f the financial statements are submitted to the Bank. Accounting for SA
transactions and for all other Project and subprojects related accounts will be maintained in accordance
with the World Bank Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook, January 1995. The SA
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.




                                                     -54 -

                             Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
             CROATIA: COASTAL CITIES POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT


ProjectSchedule                                            Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)              12                             26
First Bank mission (identification)                     03/01/2002                     03/01/2002
Appraisal mission departure                             0210112004                     02/04/2004
Negotiations                                            0411512004
Planned Date of Effectiveness                           0911812004

Prepared by:
The World Bank Project Team


Preparationassistance:
Hv,MoE

Bank staff who worked on the proiectincluded:
                                  . -
        Name                                            SDecialitv
Manuel G. Mariiio                       Team Leader, Engineer, Environmental Specialist
DavidN.Sislen                           Co-Team Leader, Economist
StjepanGabric                           Water and Sanitation Specialist
StanPeabody                             Social Assessment, Social Safeguards
RitaKlees                               Environmental Assessment
Xavier Chauvot de Beauchene             Engineer
Takao Ikegami                           Sanitary Engineer(PAS)
Salim Benouniche                        Procurement Specialist
Mike Gascoyne                           FinancialManagement Specialist
Irina L.Kichigina                       Lawyer
MenahemLibhaber                         Water and Sanitation Specialisfleer Reviewer
Louis Saliba                            Environmental Health Specialisfleer Reviewer
Michael Schaeffer                       Consultant, FinancialAnalyst
StanislavTedeschi                       Consultant, Water and Sanitation Specialist
Carlos Orsini                           Consultant, Institutional Specialist
Domagoj Racic                           Consultant, Economist
Vladimir Skendrovic                     Consultant, Engineer
Maria TeresaLim                         Program Assistant




                                                 - 55 -

                           Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
             CROATIA: COASTAL CITIES POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT


A. ProjectImplementation Plan
Procurementplan

B. Bank Staff Assessments
QER minutes

C. Other
   Peer ReviewersReports

   Least Cost Analysis andMaster Plans

   Social and InstitutionalAssessments

   HV InstitutionalAssessment

   Economic Analysis

   Financial Analysis

   Government Program for CoastalCities Pollution Control

   Letter from the Ministryof ForeignAffairs to other ripariancountries per OP 7.50 on Projects in
                  IntemationalWaters

*Including electronicfiles




                                                - 56 -

                                    Annex 9: Statementof Loans and Credits
                       CROATIA: COASTAL CITIES POLLUTIONCONTROL PROJECT
                                                    29-Apr-2004
                                                                                                             Differencebetween exDected
                                                                                                                     and actual
                                                          OrioinalAmount in US$ Millions                           disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                            IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel. Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
PO79978     2004 ENERGY EFF                             5.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00     5.62       0.00      0.00
PO43195     2004 RIJEKA GATEWAY                        156.50      0.00                  0.00    0.00  159.73  ,     0.30      0.00
PO63546     2003 PENSIONSYS INVST                      27.30       0.00                  0.00    0.00   18.59        1.09      0.00
PO67149     2003 REALPROP REGa CADASTRE                25.70       0.00                  0.00    0.00   30.91        1.06      0.00
PO42014     2002 KARST ECOSYSCONSV (GEF)                0.00       0.00                  5.07    0.00     4.97       1.61      0.00
PO70088     2001 TRADE8 TRANS FACILINSE EUR             13.93      0.00                  0.00    0.00     5.17       1.66      0.00
PO65466     2001 COURT8 BANKRUPTCYADM (LIL)             5.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00     4.26       3.34      1.53
PO51273     2000 HEALTHSYSTEM                           29.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00   16.34       16.34     11.52
PO39161     1999 RAILWAYMOD.8 REST.                    101.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00   27.49       35.63      0.00
PO57767     1999 TA INSTREG REF PSD                     7.30       0.00                  0.00    0.00     3.64       3.64      0.00
PO48983     1998 EASTSLAVONIAREC                       40.60       0.00                  0.80    0.00   13.64       13.68      0.00
PO43444     1998 MUN ENV INFRA                          36.30      0.00                  0.00    0.00   20.75        18.66     0.00

                                             Total:   447.63       0.00                5.87      0.00   311.12       97.01     13.05




                                                         - 57 -

                                              CROATIA
                                       STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                      Held and DisbursedPortfolio
                                            Mar - 2004
                                       InMillions US Dollars

                                                          Committed                       Disbursed
                                                         IFC                            IFC
FY Approval    Company                            Loan    Equity    Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
2002           Croatia Banka                      10.91    0.00      0.00    0.00  3.64   0.00    0.00  0.00
1999           Croatia Capital                     0.00    5.00      0.00    0.00  0.00   3.55    0.00  0.00
1999102        E&S Bank                          24.26     0.00      0.00    0.00 24.26   0.00    0.00  0.00
2001           Pliva                               0.00    0.00     10.00    0.00  0.00   0.00   10.00  0.00
2000           Viktor Lenac                        6.00    0.00      0.50    8.18  6.00   0.00    0.00   8.18
1998102        Belisce                            12.13    0.00      0.00   15.64  12.13  0.00    0.00  15.64
                      Total Portfolio:           53.30     5.00      10.50  23.82  46.03   3.55   10.00 23.82



                                                      Approvals PendingCommitment
FY Approval    Company                               Loan     Equity      Quasi   Partic
2002           Croatia Banka                          8.07       0.00     3.59    0.00
2002           ESBank Zagreb I1                       8.97       0.00     0.00    0.00
2004           Viktor Lenac Exp                       5.79       0.00     0.00    7.00

               Total PendingCommitment:              22.83       0.00     3.59    7.00




                                                 - 58 -

                                                     Annex 10: Country at a Glance
                    CROATIA: COASTAL CITIES POLLUTIONCONTROL PROJECT
                                                                               Europe B      Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                                Central   middle-
                                                                        Croatia     Asia    income             Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population,mid-year (millions)                                             4.4       476         331                         Lifeexpectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                       4,640      2,160      5,040
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                           20.3      1,030      1,668
Average annual growth, 1996-02                                                                                                     T
Population (%J                                                             -0.6       0.1         1.2
Laborforce (%)                                                             -0.4       0.4         1.8          5Ni                                       Gross
                                                                                                               per                                      primaty
Most recent estimate (latestyear available, 1996-02)                                                           =pita                                   nroliment
Poverty (% ofpopulation below nationalpovertyline)
Urbanpopulation I%oftotalpopulationl                                        59         63         75
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                              74         69         73                                I
infantmortality (per 1,000livebirths)                                         7        25         19
Child malnutrition (% ofchildrenunder5)                                       1                                      Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                                     91         90
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                                           2         3           7             -
Gross primaryenrollment (% ofschool-age population)                         91        102        105                      Croatia
    Male                                                                    92        103        106                      Upper-middle-incomegroup
                                                                                                                    ~

    Female                                                                  91        101        105

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS                                                                                                                          I
                                                           1982           1992       2001      2002
                                                                                                               Economicratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                                         10.2      19.5       22.4
Gross domestic investmenffGDP                                              13.4      24.7
Exportsof qoods and serviceslGDP                                          59.6       48.5                                         Trade

Grossdomestic savinqs/GDP                                                  18.9      18.4
Gross national savings/GDP                                                 16.3      20.7

Current account balancelGDP                                                           -3.2                     Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                                                                 3.2         2.5          savings                              Investment
Total debffGDP                                                                       55.7        59.9
Total debt service/exports                                                           27.6
Present valueof debtlGDP                                                             54.8
Present valueof debffexports                                                         99.8                                       Indebtedness
                                           1982-92 1992-02                2001       2002    2002-06
(averaqeannualgrowth)                                                                                                -     Croatia
GDP                                                          3.6            3.8        5.2        4.0
GDP percapita                                                4.7            3.8        5.3        4.3                      Upper-middle-incomegroup


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY

(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                                14.9        9.7                     40
                                                                                                    "
 Industry                                                                  33.1       34.2          .'         30

    Manufacturing                                                          29.2       24.3                     20
                                                                                                    "
Services                                                        ........   52.0       56.1                     10
                                                                                                                0
Privateconsumption                                                         57.3       56.6          ..        -10
General governmentconsumption                                              23.8       25.0
 Importsof goods and services                                   ......     54.2       54.7


                                                        1982-92 Igg2-O2              2001       2o02          Growth of exports and Imports     ( O h )
 (averageannualgrowth)                                                                                       ~                                                   L
Agriculture                                                                -0.1        0.7                    30

 Industry                                                                   2.7        4.3                    20
    Manufacturing                                                           2.1        6.0
 Services                                                                   4.4        4.8                     10

 Privateconsumption                                                         2.7        4.6                      0

 General governmentconsumption                                              0.4       -3.9                    -10
 Gross domestic investment                                                  7.6       13.7
 Importsof goods and services                                               4.8        9.3

 * The diamondsshow four key indicatorsin the country (in bold) comparedwith its lncome-groupaverage. If data are missing.the diamondwill be incomplete




                                                                                - 59 -

                                                                                                                            Croatia

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE                                                                                                         I
                                               1982    I992       2001     2002
Domestic prices                                                                    Inflation (%)                                    1
(% change)                                                                        10

Consumer prices                                       663.6         4.9
ImplicitGDP deflator                                  594.9         2.9     2.9    5

Governmentfinance
(% of GDP,includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                                        35.0       46.0     46.8              97     98    99       00       01
Current budget balance                                  -2.1       -1.6     2.2                          deflator  I O ' C P I
OverallsurDlus/deflcit                                  -3.7       -3.9    -5.1              -GDP



TRADE
                                               1982    1992       2001     2002
(US$mi//ions)                                                                      Exportand Importlevels(US$ mlll.)

Total exports (fob)                                   4,445      4,752            10,owT                                            I
  Raw materials,excludingfuels                          286        241
  Mineralfuels and lubricants                           397         474             7,5w
  Manufactures                                        1,878       2,393
Total imports (cif)                                   4,461       8,764             5.000

  Food                                                  314         691
  Fueland energy                                        418       1.174             2.524
                                                                                 I                                                  I
  Capitalgoods                                          468       3,005                   0

Export price index (1995=100)                                       150                     96  97     98     99     00     01

Importpriceindex (1995=100)                                         149                         Exports          Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                           101                                                          O2



BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                               1982    I992       2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                      Current accountbalanceto GDP (%)

Exportsof goods and services                           6,107      9,625             0
importsof goods and services                           5,547     10,659
Resource balance                                         559     -1,034

Net income                                              -170       -529    -457    -10-5

Netcurrent transfers                                     -91        966

Current account balance                                            -617

Financingitems (net)                                              1,930
Changes in net reserves                                 -167     -1,313            -15

Memo:
Reservesincluding gold (US$ millions)                    167      4,704
Conversion rate (DEC, /oca//US$j                         0.3         8.3     7.9

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCE FLOWS
                                               1982     I992       2001    2002
 (US$ millions)                                                                     Compositionof 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                             10,888   13,429
   IBRD                                                             427     486                     G:362 A:486
   IDA                                                                0        0                                  D:324

Total debt service                                                2,966    3,310
   IBRD                                                              37      51
   IDA                                                                 0       0

 Compositionof net resourceflows
   Officialgrants                                                    67
   Officialcreditors                                                  16       5
   Privatecreditors                                                 718    1,101
   Foreigndirect investment                                       1,512
   Portfolioequity                                                     6                        F: 11,389
 World Bank program
   Commitments                                                         5      53    A IBRD      D - Othermultilateral    F- Private
                                                                                         ~                               E Bilateral
                                                                                                                           ~
   Disbursements                                                      75      33    B IDA
                                                                                        -
   Principalrepayments                                                18      30
   Netflows                                                           57       3
   Interestpayments                                                   19      21
   Nettransfers                                                       38     -18

mote: Inis t a m was producedirom tne uevelopmenttwnomics centraldatabase.                                                    LI/ZU/DJ




                                                               - 60 -

-@-I
 -


                             AdditionalAnnex 12: MonitoringSystem
               CROATIA:COASTALCITIES POLLUTIONCONTROL PROJECT

The Republic o f Croatia has developed several networks during recent years to monitor water and
wastewater quality and quantity incoastal areas. These networks follow the recommendations o fthe MAP,
but also respond to the needto comply with information requirement on the quality of coastal waters that
Croatia will need to fulfill upon its entrance into the EU. The results o f these monitoring networks have
been used in determining priorities among the investments foreseen under the Program for the Control of
Croatia's Coastal Waters Pollution (the Program), and will be used for assessing its results and the
adequacy o f the solutions adopted. The objectives and main characteristics o f these networks are as
follows:

(i) Bathingwatersqualitynetwork. TheMoEfinancesthemonitoringofwaterqualityinmostof
Croatia's bathingareas along the Adriatic Sea. This comprehensive network o f 830 sampling stations (see
attached map) is managed by the Institute o f Public Health (IPH), which is in charge o f sampling and
bacteriological analysis (faecal coliforms i s the common parameter measured in all sampling stations) o f
between nine and 12 samples taken during the summer season in each station.                On the basis o f the
statistical analysis o f these results, each station water quality i s given a sanitary rating, indicative o f the
potential health risks o f bathing in those waters, using the methodology and criteria developed under the
MAPandthe quality standardsestablishedbyCroatianlegislationonthismatter.

Seven regional health laboratories participate in this network. The results are periodically publishedin
local media.     Also, a complete analysis o f the network's data is carried out yearly and its results
communicated to the Mediterranean Action Plan, (established through the Barcelona Convention,
Assessment and Control o f Pollution in the Mediterranean Region, or MED-POL) in compliance with the
agreements under the Barcelona Convention.

(ii) ShellJishgrowingwatersqualitynetwork. Undersimilarmethodologytothatusedinthebathing
waters quality network, 16 main shellfish growing areas are also monitoredregularly for microbiological
and other indicator o f potential health risks associated to the consumption o f shellfish and other sea
products o f these areas. This network, also implemented and managed by the IPH, cover major shellfish
growing areas o fthe Adriatic sea.

(iii) Coastalwatersquality network.            HV and Oceanographic Institutes carry out, with the help o f
regional laboratories, regular sampling and analysis o f 15 quality and oceanographic parameters in 52
sampling stations o f the Adriatic Sea coastal areas (those situated at less than one nautical mile from the
coast) four times a year. Many o f these sampling stations are selected to provide basic data for the design
and construction o f wastewater management and disposal facilities, as well as for the control o f those
already constructed. The results o f this network, which i s also intended to follow general trends inquality
and oceanographic conditions o f the Adriatic along Croatia's coast, are communicated to MED-POL as
part of Croatia's commitments under the Barcelona Convention.

(iv)     Wastewater discharges monitoring network.           HV is also developing a network of sampling
stations for the control o f wastewater (municipal and industrial) and river discharges into the sea. The
objective o f this network i s to provide data on the overall pollution load discharged into the sea by Croatia
and for the setting o f the pollution fee that has to be paid to Hv by the MWSCs and industries responsible
 for these discharges. This network, that at present controls 70 stations for cities and touristic resorts, 31
 stations for industries and 8 stations on river delta's is planned to cover all major discharges along the



                                                      - 63 -

coast using 7 regional laboratories.

(v)     Open sea water quality monitoring network. The Ministry o f Science carries out four sampling
campaigns in five transects in Croatia's Adriatic waters (beyond one nautical mile from the coast, between
Croatia and Italy), in which 25 major quality and oceanographic parameters are measured. The results o f
this network, which is intended to follow general trends in quality and oceanographic conditions o f the
Adriatic along Croatia's coast, are also communicated to MED-POL as part o f Croatia's commitments
under the BarcelonaConvention.

Major Problems and Limitations of the System

Although the system o f monitoring networks responds to a logical design in which different networks
complement each other inthe achievement o f different monitoring objectives, the reality is that the system
has not been sufficiently developed and presents several important deficiencies that limit the applicability
and use o f its results. Most important among these deficiencies are:


0       First, the limitedcoverage o fthese networks (withthe notable exceptionofthe bathingwaters
        quality monitoringnetwork), that fail to provide sufficient or adequate information o f Croatia's
        coastal waters and o fthe discharges it receives o fwastewaters.
0        Second, the results o fthese networks are at times not comparable because analytical quality
        reviews and intercalibration exercises are mostly absent, or because o f that same reason, have
         limited credbility.
0        Finally, althoughthe recent environmental legislation enacted inCroatia creates the Environmental
         Protection Agency, dependent from the MoE, andassigns to this agency the responsibility o f
         consolidating environmental informationcollected by the different institutions with responsibilities
         inthisarea, the realityisthat this "warehouse" function is not yet carriedout anda comprehensive
         assessmento fthe situation i s not available.

Proposed Strengthening of the Monitoring System under the Program

In order to be usefil for the assessment o f the Program outputs and the degree in which it reaches its
objectives, as well as to facilitate the data that is necessary to evaluate the Program's design and to its
eventual modification in subsequent Phases, the monitoring system networks need to be strengthened to
correct the current main deficiencies.

For this purpose the Programenvisages support to the MoEandHV for the improvement o fthe
monitoring networks under their responsibility ando ftheir capacity to undertake the functions
that have been assignedto them inthis matter. This includes investments inthe rehabilitation and
modernization o fregionallaboratories (civil works, equipment --including equipment to improve
 samplingcapacity--, andtechnical assistance andtraining ofthese laboratories staff) andtechnical
 assistance for the development o fpolicies andprocedures o f common use inthe system (including
 those for the development o f the system's information "warehouse") andfor the intercalibration
 o fthe different laboratories that participate indata collection.




                                                      - 6 4 -

                           AdditionalAnnex 13: Policy Framework
            CROATIA: COASTAL CITIES POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT




                HRVATSKE VODE                                     ctlkk01163      07-333 &tl&direktor   011
                                                                  61 51-779 Telefax:         01161 51-793
                                                                                             01/61 la-571
              pravnaosoba za upravljanjevodama
              ZAGREB, Utica grada Vukovara 220


Class: 32504103-041805Off.
No. 374-1-7-03-1Zagreb,
December, 15,2003




To:                     WORLD BANWIFC/MIGA
                        Manuel Marino,Task Team Leader, ECSlE


SUBJECT:        Croatia CoastalCities PollutionControlProject; PolicyFrameworkfor LandAcquisition
                and Resettlement;Letterof Declaration




DearSir!

Hrvatskavodeexpressitscommitmentto theobjectivesofthe CoastalCitiesPollutionControl Projectand
herebydeclarethatthe PolicyFrameworkfor LandAcquisitionandResettlement,as statedindocument
enclosedherewith,shallbeimplementedinallaspectsrelatedtotheland acquisitionandresettlementinthe
areasoftheProject

Yours sincerely,




                                                     - 65 -

                        PolicyFrameworkfor LandAcquisition.andResettlement

Specific sites for investment under the Croatia Coastal Cities Pollution Control Project are not known in
advance. Rather, they will be determined during implementation, based on requests from municipalities,
subject to financial, environmental and social assessment. It is expected that ineach case the installation o f
wastewater and sewage conveyance and treatment facilities will entail land acquisition. The land will be
acquired for rights-ofway for the collector network, including sewer lines, connecting.points, manholes and
tunnels and, in some cases, larger tracts for pumping stations, treatment facilities and conveyance and
outfall pints. It is possible, but highlyunlikely, that privateresidence and structures will be affected, either
temporarily or permanently, causing relocation o f residents. The land acquisition and resettlement caused
by the project will be carried out following well-established procedures specified in Croatian laws and
Statutes relating to purchase and expropriation, which comply with World Bank Operational Policy (OP)
4.12 and Bank Procedures (BP) 4.12. These procedures are specified inthe Program Operational Manual,
which also provides detailed instructions regarding documentation and impact assessment.

For each investment, application documentation will include a LandAcquisitionPlan for the specific site,
which describes steps taken prior to the application and outlines specific steps to be taken during
preparation and implementation to assure compliance with Obligations Act, the Expropriation Act
bublished in the Croatian Official Gazette, Narodne Novine, 9/94, 35/94, 112/00, 114/01), General
Administrative Procedure Act and OP/BP 4.12.

ExpropriationProcedures

In the Republic o f Croatia expropriation is the only exception to the principle o f inviolability and
confinement o f private property that i s determined in the Constitution o f the Republic o f Croatia (Article
48). The process o f expropriation i s specified in detail in the Expropriation Act that enables government
institutions to acquire private property for projects that are deemed to be o f state interest, while protecting
the interests o f those whose assets are expropriated (see Annex A). Three principal provisions guide the
process, which mustbe completedbefore civil works canbe carried out on the site:

 +
 ++       Minimize expropriation
          Substitute land and residences, iffeasible and mutually acceptable
          Provide cash compensation according to market prices.
 Ifnot regulated by a separate law, real property may be expropriated when necessary for construction of
 facilities or carrying out works "inthe interest o f the Republic o f Croatia" and when it i s deemed that the
 real property to be proposed for expropriation will provide higher benefit when used for other purposes
 than the benefits resulting from the prevailing use o f the real property. Real property may be expropriated
 because o f construction works or buildingof economic infrastructure facilities (traffic, telecommunication,
 water management, energy), health, educational or cultural facilities, industrial, energy, traffic and
 telecommunications facilities, facilities to be usedby Croatianjudiciary system, the militaryandthe police,
 as well as for exploration and exploitation o fminerals and other natural resources.

 The expropriation procedure must be carried out within two years from the date the interest o fthe Republic
 o f Croatia has been established.

 Itis carriedout only after settlement negotiations haveprovedunsuccessful.

 There are two types o f expropriation. "The Complete Expropriation" gives a beneficiary the right o f



                                                       - 66 -

ownership on expropriated land. "The Incomplete Expropriation" gives a beneficiary the right o f servitudes
(right o fway and similar rights).

The entire process i s public and transparent.

The establishment "of the Republic o f Croatia interest" may take place either for the specific facilities in
individual procedures hold before the Government o f Croatia or some type o f structures may be declared
being "of the Republic o f Croatia interest" in legislation procedure        - under the law.     Without the
establishment o f "interest o f the Republic o f Croatia", property cannot be expropriated; it can be acquired
only through willing buyerlwillingseller arrangements. Once an investment i s designated or declared under
law as being o f "Republic o f Croatia interest", the public or private entity managing the investment i s
authorized to apply for expropriation according to regulations before the Government Office for the Rights
o f Property (GORPs) local branches. The implementing entity can also commission another entity to
                         -
manage the process on its behalf.

With respect to the Project, "the Republic o f Croatia interest" is already declared inthe laws for the water
structures (including  -  transmission mains, pumping stations, wastewater treatment facilities, etc.) under
the Water Act and for other municipal utilities, under the Municipal Utilities Act. Practically, one step i s
overcome, and the procedures before the GORPs may start.             In each case, the local or MWSC (the
sub-borrower) i s the entity responsible for the land acquisition. It can manage the land acquisition itselfor
contract another agency to act on its behalf.

The process includes the following steps regardless o f outcome:

 1.       Public announcement andpublicationo fplans
2.        Notification o f landowners when the tentative alignment i s set
3.        Compilation o f maps and precise acquisition needs once the alignment is adopted
4.        Preliminary assessment o fthe value o f the required land and structure (land and structures)
5.        Notification o fowners and invitation to negotiate, includingproviding a statement o f owners rights,
          presentation o f altematives, and estimated valuation o f standing crops, trees with economic value,
          and other structures or assets.

 Ifthe negotiationsareconcluded satisfactorily,

          a.      For cash compensation, a contract is drafted and signed, payment i s concluded and the
                  land is transferred and registered
          b.      For exchange, a swap site is agreed, purchased and transferred to the new owner, who
                  transfers the expropriated site

 Ifthe negotiations are not concluded satisfactorily (and the deal is not made), then the utilitysubmits the
 proposal for expropriation o f the real property to the responsible Government administration office that
 enacts the decision on expropriation as requested. If the owner disagrees with the financial offer and the
 amount o f land to be expropriated, he or she can appeal the decision' to the Ministry o f Justice,
 Administration and Local Self-Government within 15 days o f the submission o f the decision on
 expropriation to the owner. Ifthe owner i s dissatisfied with the decision o f the Ministry, the owner has 30
 days to appeal to the County Court, which holds an open hearing before rendering a final Decision.

 1.       Ifthe first Decision is not challenged, it becomes final after 15 days and the property can be
          entered immediately uponpayment.


                                                       - 67 -

2.       If owners are not located, or if co-owners have not agreed among themselves how to share the
         compensation, payment is made to an escrow account and the property can be entered immediately.
3.       Ifthe owner appeals to the Ministryor the County Court, the MWSC will make payment to the
         owner according to the Decision o f the Ministry or the Court, respectively, and can enter the
         property immediately thereafter.

Project Procedures

Inadditionto following and documentingthe expropriationprocedures indicatedabove, each sub-borrower
will carry out two additional steps.

+        First, once the tentative alignment is identified, the sub-borrower will holda public consultationto
discuss the alignment and its implications, to which all property owners whose lands will be affectedby the
alignment will be invitedby mail. The content and results o fthe consultationwill be recordedinminutes
that are maintained inthe file and made available to the social assessment -team and Bank supervision
missions.
+        Second, the sub-borrower will prepare a LandAcquisition Planand submit it prior to effectiveness
o fthe proceeds under the sub-loan agreement. The Planwill include details about any steps taken prior to
the effectiveness o fthe proceeds under the sub-loan agreement, such as notificationor consultation with
owners, and description o f the land acquisition process. This should include the followigg an estimate o f
the amount o f landthat will be acquired, the number o f owners, ifavailable, breakdown o f (i)  freely
acquired lands; (ii) lands subject to Complete Expropriation; and (iii) subject to Incomplete
                                                                         lands
Expropriation, breakdown showing the percentage o f each affectedparcel that will be subject to Complete
Expropriation(to: the extent available), and any substantial assets to be affected, such as homes or
structures; and designation o fpeople and entities responsible for implementing the land acquisition program
and lines o f authority. This will be reviewed bythe financial institutionandsubmitted to the Bank for
review and approval. The Planwill be updated as informationi s available, particularlydata regarding
specific acquisition details and compensation, and monitoredby SPSC o f HV, acting as the implementing
agency, as well as Bank supervision missions.

Ifpossibleresettlement Ifpossible resettlementwillbeidentifiedinanyofsub-projects, aresettlementplan
will be prepared as part o f sub-project documentationwhich will include, as the minimum: (i) o fnumber
persons to be resettledand valuation o fassets; (ii)  description o f compensationandother resettlement
assistanceprovided; (iii)  institutional responsibility for implementation and procedures for grievance
redress; (iv) arrangements for monitoring andimplementation; and(v) timetable and budget.




                                                       - 68 -

                                                                                                       Annex A

The ExpropriationAct

Ifnot regulatedby a separate law, real property may be expropriated when necessary for construction of
facilities or carrying out the works inthe interest o fthe Republic o f Croatia and when it is deemed that real
property to be proposed for expropriation will provide higher benefit when used for other purposes than the
benefits resulting from the use o f the said real property in the present way.           Real property may be
expropriated because o f construction works or building o f economic infrastructure facilities (traffic,
telecommunication, water management, energy), health, educational or cultural facilities, industrial, energy,
traffic and telecommunications facilities, facilities to be used by Croatian judiciary. system, the military
andthe police, as well as for exploration and exploitationo f minerals and other natural resources.

The expropriation procedure must be camed out withintwo years from the date the interest o fthe Republic
o f Croatia has been established.

It shallbe carriedout after settlement negotiations haveprovedunsuccessful.

EXPROPRIATIONPROCEDURE

The expropriation proposal may be submitted by the expropriation beneficiary (condemner) only after the
interest o f the Republic o f Croatia, as regards the construction o f facilities or carrying out the works, has
been established by virtue o f the provisions o fthis or another act.     ,



Prior to submitting the expropriation proposal, the expropriation beneficiary shall be obligated to provide,
through a competent body, the evidence o f the state and the value o f the real property for which
expropriation is being sought (findings and opinion o f experts, etc).

The proposal for expropriation o f real property must include the designation of: (i)          the expropriation
beneficiary; (ii) the real property proposed for expropriation; (iii) owner and possessor o f real property
                                                                       the
for which expropriation is sought, including his address or seat; and (iv) the facility or works that are the
reason for the expropriation proposal.

The expropriation proposal must be submitted together with:

1.        the proof that the beneficiary o f the expropriation has tried to resolve the question o f acquiring the
          ownership rights through a negotiated settlement with the owner o f a given real property (written
          offer, public announcement etc.),
2.        an extract from the land-register books or other public registers in which the ownership o f real
          property is entered and which keep the data on the real property for which expropriation i s sought,
          or cadastral and other data if such books do not exist or the situation on the books does not reflect
          the actual possession,
3.        an extract from the possession document,
4.        the proof o f established interest o f the Republic in buildingfacilities or carrying out the works on
          that particular real property,
 5.        the evidence o fthe state and the value o f real property for which expropriation is sought (findings
          and opinion o f experts, etc.),
 6.       the proof that the expropriation beneficiary has secured and deposited in a bank hnds
          approximately necessary for compensation for the expropriated real property and the costs o f the


                                                       - 69 -

         procedure, or the proof o f having secured another appropriate real property,
7.       the physical planning terms or the expropriation plan for buildingfacilities or for carrying out the
         works for which expropriation is sought.

Pursuant to the expropriation proposal, an entry shall be made ex ofjcio in land-register or other public
register, denoting the expropriation procedure; the competent body shall notify the owner o f the real
property inwriting.

Inthe first instance, the GORPs or the office o fthe City o fZagreb responsible for Rights o fProperty shall
have thejurisdiction; inthe second instance, the Ministryresponsible for Justice, Administration and Local
Self-Government shall decide.

The expropriation order shall be issued by the government office within whose territorial jurisdiction real
property proposed for expropriation falls. Prior to issuingthe expropriation order, the GORPs must inform
the owner o f real property about his right to file a request for the expropriation o f the remainingportion o f
real property.

The order which upholds the expropriation proposal shall comprise, inter alia:

1.       the designation o f the act by virtue o f which the interest o f the Republic o f Croatia has been
         established,
2.       the designationo fthe expropriationbeneficiary,
3.       the description o f real property to be expropriated, accompanied by land- register data or cadastral
         data if real property has not been entered into the land-register or other public register or it does
         not exist,
4.       the designation o f the owner andthe possessoro f the expropriated real property and his address or
         seat,
5.       the description o f facility or works which are the reason for expropriation,
6.       the obligation o f the real property owner to transfer it into possession as well as the deadline for
         transfer into possession,
7.       the obligation o f the expropriation beneficiary regarding the compensation for expropriated real
         property: a detailed description o f an appropriate real property or the cash amount that reflects the
         market value with the deadline for transfer into possession or payment, which may be no more than
          15 days after the expropriation order has become final, or announcement o f settlement if one has
         beenreached,
8.       the obligation o f the expropriation beneficiary to pay legal penalty interest, accrued from the date
         o fthe issuance o fthe expropriation order inthe first instance to the date o fpayment.

An appeal may be filed against the order o fthe GORE%within 15 days. The appeal shall be adjudicated
bythe Ministryo fJustice, Administrationand Local Self-Government.

An appeal may be filed against the second-instance order with the local County Court (within30 days from
the receipt o f the second-instance order). The appeal shall be adjudicated by a Panel o f the County Court
 inopenhearings. The decisiono fthe Panelcannot be appealedor revised.

 The expropriation beneficiary shall assume the right o f possession o f the expropriated property on the day
 the expropriation order has become final, providedhe has bythen compensated the previous owner.




                                                       - 70 -

COSTS AND COMPENSATIONS

The costs o f the expropriation procedure shall be bome by the expropriation beneficiary, except for the
costs incurred duringthe appeal o fthe real property owner that has not beenupheld.

Upon request o f the previous owner o f the expropriated real property, the final expropriation order shall be
revoked if, within two years from the day on which the order has become final or from the day the
possession was assumed, the expropriation beneficiary does not begin buildingthe facility or carrying out
the works for which real property was expropriated.

The compensation for the expropriated real property shall, as a rule, be paid in the form o f another
appropriate real property whose value i s comparable to the market value o f the expropriated real property
inthe same County or city, ensuringthat the owner o fthe expropriatedrealproperty can exercise the same
usage rights as for the expropriated real property. Ifthe owner o f the expropriated real property refuses to
accept another appropriate real property as compensation, or if the expropriation beneficiary cannot offer
such property, the compensation, inthe amount ofthe marketvalue o f real property, shall be paid incash.

Ifreal property is burdened by servitude, the compensation shall be adjusted to reflect the lower market
value o f real property due to servitude.

Ifrealproperty isunder lease, the compensation shallbeequaltothe rentthat canberealizedinthe market.




                                                    -71  -


