                                 Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00001377



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IBRD-72260 TF-54882)



                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 40 MILLION
                      (US$47.54 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF CROATIA

                                       FOR A

              COASTAL CITIES POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT

                  IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE

             COASTAL CITIES POLLUTION CONTROL PROGRAM



                                     May 20, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
Southeast Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective) March 2010

                         Currency Unit = Croatian Kuna (HRK)
                            1.00 HRK = US$0.19
                              US$1.00 = 5.36 HRK

                       FISCAL YEAR (January ­ December)

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL    Adaptable Program Lending               MEPPPC  Ministry of Environmental
BOD    Biochemical Oxygen Demand                       Protection, Physical Planning and
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                     Construction
CCPCP  Coastal Cities Pollution Control        MoF     Ministry of Finance
       Program                                 MRDFWM Ministry of Regional
CPS    Country Partnership Strategy                    Development, Forestry and Water
d.o.o. Limited Liability Company                       Management
       (Croatian)                              MWSC    Municipal Water and Sewerage
EF     Environmental Framework                         Company
EIA    Environmental Impact Assessment         `NIMBY' `Not in my backyard'
EIFF   Environmental Infrastructure            NPV     Net Present Value
       Financing Facility                      O&M     Operation and Maintenance
EMP    Environmental Management Plan           OM      Operations Manual
EU     European Union                          PAD     Project Appraisal Document
FMS    Financial Management System             PDO     Project Development Objective
GA     Grant Agreement                         PE      Population Equivalent
GEF    Global Environment Facility             PIE     Project Implementing Entity
HRK    Croatian Kuna                           PIU     Project Implementation Unit
HV     Hrvatske Vode (Croatian Waters)         PP      Procurement Plan
HVJP   Hrvatske Vode Jadranski Projekt         SA      Social Assessment
       (HV Adriatic Project)                   SEA     Strategic Environmental
IBRD   International Bank for                          Assessment
       Reconstruction and Development          SLA     Sub-Loan Agreement
IFR    Interim Financial Reports               SOE     Statements of Expenditure
ISR    Implementation Status Reports           SPSC    Special Purpose Subsidiary
LA     Loan Agreement                                  Company
LARAP Land Acquisition and Resettlement        SS      Suspended Solids
       Action Plan                             STAP    Scientific and Technical Advisory
LARPF Land Acquisition and Resettlement                Panel
       Policy Framework                        WWTP    Wastewater Treatment Plant

                            Vice President: Philippe Le Houerou
                          Country Director: Peter Harrold
                           Sector Manager: Wael Zakout
                      Project Team Leader: Michael Webster
                         ICR Team Leader: Sanyu Lutalo
                             CONTENTS
         COASTAL CITIES POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT ­ PHASE I


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 17
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 18
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 19
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 20
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 25
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 29
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 32
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 33
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 34
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 44
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 45
  MAP
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Coastal Cities Pollution
Country:                Croatia                  Project Name:
                                                                           Control Project (APL)
Project ID:             P065416                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-72260,TF-54882
ICR Date:               05/20/2010               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                      Borrower:
                                                                           CROATIA
Original Total
                        USD 47.5M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 53.9M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 46.6M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
 Croatia Ministry of Environmental Protection, Physical Planning, and Construction
 Mr. Jadranko Husaric, General Manager, Hrvatske Vode (HV)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process             Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/18/2002     Effectiveness:             12/17/2004         12/17/2004
Appraisal:             02/09/2004     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/01/2004     Mid-term Review:           04/05/2007         03/27/2007
                                      Closing:                   11/30/2008         11/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                 i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     10                  10
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                  5                    5
Sewerage                                                              85                  85


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                                  33                  20
Environmental policies and institutions                               17                  17
Other urban development                                               17                  17
Pollution management and environmental health                         33                  46

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Peter C. Harrold                     Anand K. Seth
Sector Manager:            Wael Zakout                          Sumter Lee Travers
Project Team Leader:       Michael John Webster                 Manuel G. Marino
ICR Team Leader:           Sanyu Sarah Senkatuka Lutalo
ICR Primary Author:        Sanyu Sarah Senkatuka Lutalo


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To improve the quality of Croatia's Adriatic coastal waters to meet EU ambient quality
standards in the participating municipalities, in a financially and operationally sustainable
manner.




                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The project development objective was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                                Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                  approval         Target        Completion or
                                                documents)         Values         Target Years
                Percentage of samples from monitoring bathing and shellfish areas water quality
Indicator 1 :
                complying with EU standards in participating municipalities.
                97.9
                Reliable baseline data
                was not available during
Value           appraisal as the there was
quantitative or no reliable sea water        98                               98.5
Qualitative)    quality monitoring
                system in place at the
                time -- actual value was
                assumed to be lower.
Date achieved 07/01/2004                     11/30/2009                       11/30/2009
                Early in implementation, it was confirmed up to 97.9% samples in
Comments
                bathing/shellfish areas met required standards, rendering this indicator not very
(incl. %
                useful. 98.5 % of samples complied with standards in participating
achievement)
                municipalities, exceeding target.
                Technical and financial situation of MWSC in the participating municipalities as
Indicator 2 :
                indicated by sewerage network coverage rate (average).
Value
quantitative or 56                           65                               68
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2004                     11/30/2009                       11/30/2009
Comments
                The average sewerage coverage rates improved in the participating cities and met
(incl. %
                the target. Five of the cities exceeded the targeted coverage rate.
achievement)
                Technical and financial situation of MWSC in the participating municipalities as
Indicator 3 :
                indicated by operating ratio (average).
Value
quantitative or 0.99                         >1.1                             0.97
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2004                     11/30/2009                       11/30/2009
                Operating ratio is defined as operating revenue divided by operating costs,
Comments
                including adequate maintenance costs. Number presented is average of
(incl. %
                Operating Ratios from 9 MWSCs (one exceeded target, 5 within 10% margin) --
achievement)
                see Annex 2 for individual results
                Technical and financial situation of MWSC in the participating municipalities as
Indicator 4 :
                indicated by debt service ratio (average)
Value
quantitative or 4.7                          >1.5                             8.16
Qualitative)


                                               iii
Date achieved     07/01/2004                 11/30/2009                         11/30/2009
Comments          Number presented is average Debt Service Coverage Ratio for 8 MWSCs with
(incl. %          data available, of which 5 exceeded target and one within 10 % margin.
achievement)      (Individual MWSC results given in Annex 2).
                  Reduced pollution load discharged into coastal area in participating
Indicator 5 :
                  municipalities (measured by reduced BOD/SS in WWTP effluent in tons/year).
Value
                                                                                BOD (122 ton)
quantitative or   No baseline.               No specific target
                                                                                SS (145 ton)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/01/2004                 11/30/2009                         11/30/2009
Comments          This indicator was introduced during implementation and confirmed a reduction
(incl. %          in pollution load to the Adriatic Sea. The baseline is assumed to be zero where
achievement)      no wastewater treatment plants operated before.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                  approval                        Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
                  The Special Purpose Subsidiary Company (SPSC) and the Environmental
Indicator 1 :
                  Infrastructure Financing Facility (EIFF) are established and capitalized.
Value
(quantitative     No.                        Yes.                               Yes.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/01/2004                 12/17/2004                         11/30/2009
Comments
                  The SPSC and the EIFF were indeed established and capitalized before
(incl. %
                  implementation started.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Participating MWSC contribute to Project investments as planned.
Value
(quantitative     No.                        Yes.                               Yes.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/01/2004                 12/17/2004                         11/30/2009
Comments
                  All participating MWSC contributed to Project investments as planned and
(incl. %
                  established tariff surcharges to finance their contributions.
achievement)
                  Percentage of wastewater produced in the coastal area municipalities
Indicator 3 :     participating in the Project that is treated, and disposed of according to EU and
                  Croatian requirements.
Value
(quantitative     6%                         50%                                45%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/01/2004                 11/30/2009                         11/30/2009
Comments
                  Targets were not set at appraisal and were introduced during implementation.
(incl. %
                  Actual performance was slightly below the target.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Percentage of population in participating municipalities able to connect to



                                                    iv
                  adequate wastewater collection and disposal sy stems.
Value
(quantitative     56%                       65%                                 68%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/01/2004                11/30/2009                          11/30/2009
Comments
                  Target was not set at appraisal due to lack of reliable data and was introduced
(incl. %
                  during implementation. Actual performance nonetheless exceeded the target.
achievement)
                  Capacity of the MoE laboratories for environmental monitoring to assess
Indicator 5 :
                  Program impact on coastal waters quality improved.
Value
(quantitative   No.                          Yes.                            Yes.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2004                     11/30/2009                      11/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        The capacity of MoE laboratories was improved.
achievement)
                Number of county laboratories rehabilitated and equipped by the HV central and
Indicator 6 :
                regional laboratories operational and inter -calibrated.
Value
(quantitative   0                            2                               2
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2004                     11/30/2009                      11/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        2 laboratories were rehabilitated and equipped as planned.
achievement)
                Number of participating cities in which seawater quality monitoring system
Indicator 7 :
                operational and baseline indicators in place.
Value
(quantitative   0                            11                              11
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2004                     11/30/2009                      11/30/2009
Comments
                Seawater quality monitoring system is operational, and baseline indicators are in
(incl. %
                place in all the participating cities.
achievement)
Indicator 8 : Km of wastewater collection system constructed (Kilometers).
Value
(quantitative   0                            101                             102
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2004                     07/01/2004                      11/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        The targeted length of sewer (km) was exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 9 : No. of wastewater treatment plants commissioned (Number)
Value
(quantitative   0                            6                               6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2004                     11/30/2009                      11/30/2009


                                                  v
Comments
(incl. %       All planned wastewater treatment plants were constructed and commissioned.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
        Date ISR
No.                            DO                             IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1    06/29/2004        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    08/30/2004        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  3    11/29/2004        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  4    05/22/2005        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.64
  5    10/06/2005        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     3.17
  6    06/02/2006        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     5.62
  7    12/24/2006        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     9.64
  8    05/04/2007        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   11.54
  9    11/14/2007        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   17.10
 10    04/04/2008        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   24.38
 11    12/24/2008        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   35.33
 12    06/19/2009        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   44.58
 13    11/21/2009    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            50.08


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                               vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Adriatic coastline is one of Croatia's most valuable economic and environmental
assets given the importance of water as a natural resource and its importance to the
tourism and fisheries sector. In contrast to water supply, wastewater management in
Croatia was and remains deficient, and water pollution due to inadequate wastewater
treatment and/or disposal constitutes a problem in a number of Croatia's coastal
municipalities.

Issues. In 2004 when the Coastal Cities Pollution Control Program was appraised, only
around 40% of households and 40% for industry were connected to a sewerage system
and less than 12% of all collected wastewater was being treated in the country. About
56% of the households in the Project area were connected to a sewerage system and only
6% of wastewater was treated. A total of 82 wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) were
in operation countrywide but most of them suffered from operation and maintenance
(O&M) problems and needed to be upgraded to meet EU environmental standards. The
pollution of seawater quality in some parts of Croatia due to the inadequate discharges of
raw sewage had resulted in visible problems, such as localized eutrophication and
phytoplankton blooms, as well as less-visible contamination of the marine life by organic
and non-organic micro-polluting substances. Although efforts were already underway to
address the problem in some cities such as Dubrovnik, Split / Kastela Bay and Pula, little
had been done in many others. The cost of inaction would have serious consequences for
growth in the tourist industry, on which Croatia's development depends to a great extent,
and for other related industries such as aquaculture. More importantly, as part of
Croatia's EU accession agreement, the Government intended to meet EU environmental
directives, which require much higher levels of wastewater service than currently exist.

Background. The Project was the first phase of a three-phase Adaptable Program Loan
(APL) operation to be implemented over a period of ten years, designed to support
Croatia's comprehensive Program to improve the provision of efficient and sustainable
sanitation services in its coastal cities in order to improve coastal water quality along the
Adriatic coast. The Government chose to use an APL to provide a framework for a
medium-term investment program to assist the Croatian Water Agency, Hrvatske Vode
(HV), to comply with requirements for EU accession. An APL allowed HV to take a
phased approach to identifying funding sources, while building the necessary regulatory,
monitoring and management capacity. Phase I (for purposes of this ICR hereafter
referred to as the Project) was intended to be implemented in four years while the other
two phases were envisaged to be implemented in three years each. The Loan Agreement
between the Bank and the Government for the Project was signed on July 2, 2004. The
total cost of the Project was Euro 80 million, financed through an IBRD loan of Euro 40
million with a 15-year maturity (5 years' grace period, 10 years' maturity), with
commitment-linked repayment, and the remainder financed through a combination of
resources from the HV water protection fees, end users through specific Project



                                             1
surcharges, contributions from the municipalities and utilities, and government budget
transfers.

Triggers for second Phase. The following were the triggers agreed upon for proceeding
from Phase I to Phase II of the APL:

 (i)    Disbursement and commitments reaching 40% and 70% of Component 1,
        respectively;
(ii)    The performance indicators for Phase I efficiency show that improvements targets
        have been met, including sewerage and wastewater treatment coverage;
(iii)   The upgraded monitoring system is in place and functional;
(iv)    The Government has adapted legislation concerning the treatment and discharge
        of municipal wastewaters in coastal areas to the relevant EU Directives and issued
        the declaration of `sensitive' and `less sensitive' areas;
 (v)    A Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) that deals with regional cumulative
        effects has been completed; and.
(vi)    Each Municipal Water and Sewerage Company (MWSC) seeking investment
        under the first year of Phase II complies with similar eligibility conditions as of
        Phase I.

Program Objective and Phases. The objective of the overall Program is the
improvement of Croatia's ambient coastal water quality to meet the applicable EU
standards in participating municipalities. The objective was to be achieved through
technical assistance and investments in wastewater collection, treatment and disposal
systems in municipalities participating in the Project. The Government and the Bank
selected the sub-projects from a total of 163 sub-projects on the coast that would serve a
population of just over one million people or 3.2 million population equivalents as far as
wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) design is concerned. Eligibility was based on
several criteria, such as pollution load, sensitivity of receiving waters, potential negative
impact on tourist development, and readiness of design documentation. A total of 47
subprojects were selected for the program (representing a total of 477,000 people and
population equivalent of 1.22 million) and total investment value of Euro 280 million.

The key elements of the Program's first phase, the current project, were (i) expansion of
sewerage networks, adequate treatment and disposal of municipal wastewaters;
(ii) enhanced operation and management of Municipal Water and Sewerage Companies
(MWSCs); (iii) expanded and improved monitoring of coastal water quality and
wastewater discharges; (iv) reform of Croatia's financing and control instruments for
wastewater management infrastructure at the regional level; and (v) sector reform for EU
accession. In subsequent phases, the proposed APL Program would aim at expanding
and consolidating the results of the first phase through: (vi) improvement of sector
management through the establishment of financially viable water and sewerage
companies with significant participation of the private sector; and (vii) further
development of sewerage coverage and treatment levels, including the reuse of
wastewater. Implementation of Phase I started in 2005. Eleven municipalities including
Pula, Opatija, Rijeka, Novigrad, Zadar, Biograd, Rogoznica, Omis, Dugi Rat, Makarska,



                                             2
and Opuzen, participated in this Phase through a total of 11 (eleven) Subsidiary Loan
Agreements and Subproject Agreements.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The Project development objective (PDO) as presented in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) was to improve the quality of Croatia's Adriatic coastal waters to meet
EU ambient quality standards in the participating municipalities, in a financially and
operationally sustainable manner. The PDO, as defined in the Loan Agreement, was to
improve the quality of the Borrower's Adriatic Coastal Waters. There is some
discrepancy in the wording of the PDOs in the PAD and Loan Agreement. The definition
in the latter did not mention financial and operational sustainability nor the EU ambient
quality standards per se, which according to the wording in the PAD specifies should be
achieved. The PDO was to be achieved through (i) support for strengthening the
institutional arrangements for financing and management of wastewater management in
Croatia; and (ii) financing of wastewater collection, treatment and disposal infrastructure
in selected coastal municipalities.

Key performance indicators: The key Project performance indicators were
(i) percentage of wastewater produced in the coastal area municipalities participating in
the Project that is collected, treated, and disposed of according to EU requirements;
(ii) percentage of population in participating municipalities with adequate wastewater
collection and disposal systems; (iii) percentage of samples from bathing and shellfish
areas in participating municipalities complying with EU water quality standards; and
(iv) the technical and financial situation of MWSCs in the participating municipalities, as
indicated respectively by their level of unaccounted for water (where applicable) and
sewerage network coverage rates and by their operating and debt service ratios.

1.3 Revised PDO

The Project development objectives were not revised during implementation of Phase I.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary beneficiaries of the Project were the population in the Project areas in the
participating cities, totaling about 300,000 permanent residents as well as seasonal
tourists bringing the total to about 850,000 people during peak periods, who would
benefit from the improved wastewater services and the associated impacts such as
environmental improvements and reduced risks to public health. Project benefits were
also expected to reach beyond the participating municipalities to the broader regional and
national economic sector, as improved environmental conditions would enhance
prospects for the growth of tourist and fishing activities and improve prospects for the
multiplier-effect growth and private sector investment which would accompany growth in
the tourism sector. Government authorities involved in the sector were also expected to
benefit from the Project in terms of implementation of their long-term vision for the
rehabilitation and efficient provision of water services by sustainable local utilities.



                                            3
Additionally, the municipalities would benefit since the opportunity to connect new areas
to the sewerage network would facilitate municipal urban expansion, increase the land
value of connectable areas and reinforce the potential for economic development of the
municipality. Finally, the Project was expected to enhance the capacity of local
authorities to finance and manage water sector infrastructure during Project
implementation and beyond, directly impacting the viability of local utilities in the sector.

1.5 Original Components

Component 1: Coastal Environmental Infrastructure Component (Euro 61.65
million; US$73.25 million equivalent), was to finance investments in the construction
and expansion of sewerage networks, main collectors, pumping stations, wastewater
treatment plants and submarine outfalls. Investments would be financed by HV through
the Special Purpose Subsidiary Company (SPSC), using a combination of loan, resources
from the HV Water Pollution fees, specific Project surcharges, contributions from the
municipalities and utilities, and government budget transfers.

Component 2: Institutional Strengthening and Program Management Component
(Euro 4.67 million; US$5.55 million equivalent), was to finance equipment, technical
assistance, training and studies to: (a) devise and implement an institutional framework
for water pollution control; (b) complete engineering designs and environmental and
social assessments for investments after the first year of the Program and supervise
Project investments; (c) ensure the capacity of the SPSC for Project implementation,
evaluation and monitoring, including financial management; and (d) strengthen and bring
utilities to reasonable levels of management, operational efficiency and financial viability
and potentially facilitate private sector participation. Technical assistance for the
strengthening of municipal water utilities would be provided on a grant basis by HV
through the SPSC.

Component 3: Strengthening of the Coastal Waters Monitoring Network (Euro 7.68
million; US$9.12 million equivalent) was to finance equipment, civil works and
technical assistance to: (a) improve the capacity of the Ministry of Environmental
Protection, Physical Planning and Construction (MEPPPC) network of laboratories for
environmental monitoring to assess the impact of the Program on coastal waters quality;
and (b) improve the capacity of HV's laboratories to assess the individual discharges of
municipalities and industries, determine the overall pollutants load contributed by Croatia
to the Adriatic sea and evaluate and control the efficiency of the financed infrastructure.
The first part of this Component, to be implemented by MEPPPC, would be financed on
a grant basis from Government funds and loan proceeds, through direct budgetary
transfers from the Ministry of Finance. The second part of the Component would be
implemented by the SPSC on behalf of HV.

Implementation arrangements: HV was responsible for implementation of Components
1, 2 and 3a. This was done through the SPSC known as HV Jadranski Projekt (HV
Adriatic Project, or HVJP d.o.o) established within HV during preparation of the
Program. During preparation of Phase I, HVJP was envisaged to become an autonomous
limited liability (d.o.o) agency that could become a financial intermediary for both public


                                             4
and possibly even private funds to MWSCs. During the implementation however, HVJP
did not become an intermediary for funds outside of the Project due to lack of support for
this concept from HV and the government as a whole. The Ministry of Environmental
Protection, Physical Planning and Construction (MEPPPC) was responsible for
implementation of Component 3b.

1.6 Revised Components

The Project components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

Closing date extension: The Project closing date was extended by one year from
November 30, 2008 to November 30, 2009 to allow sufficient time for completion of
investments after some of the sub-projects experienced implementation delays due, in
addition to the seven-month delay in loan effectiveness, to issues such as time lost in
securing location permits, resolution of property rights issues, unearthing of
archaeological sites, and cessation of construction during the summer tourist season in
some cities.

Re-allocation of loan financing: Due to the financial crisis, the Croatian government
faced budget constraints in 2009, resulting in insufficient budget allocation to cover its
financial obligations under the Project. It requested the Bank to increase the financing
percentage from the loan, to provide bridge financing and therefore ensure timely
payments until the Project closing date. The Bank agreed to increase the portion of loan
financing from 50% to 72% provided that the government financed 100% of remaining
works.

Changes in the Results Framework: Some modifications to the results framework were
made during the course of implementation. The changes involved addition of an outcome
indicator on "reduced pollution load discharged into coastal area in participating
municipalities (measured by reduced BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand) /Suspended
Solids (SS) in wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) effluent)", in order to better capture
the impact of the Project. This change was introduced after monitoring of the bathing
water in the Sea in the eleven cities during implementation confirmed that the water
quality was already good (97.9% of samples met required standards) and that the baseline
of about 60%1 originally assumed was inaccurate. In addition, during the mid-term
review mission, the Interest Coverage Ratio was replaced with Debt Service Coverage
Ratio. A decision was however made in consultation with Management not to restructure
the Project to reflect the changes because it was considered too close to the closing date
for Phase I and preparation of Phase II provided an opportunity for incorporating the
changes. The Project could have benefitted from these issues having been raised earlier
during implementation in order to be able to allow for restructuring of Phase I earlier on.

1
  At appraisal there was no reliable sea water quality monitoring system in place and information on sea
water quality was largely anecdotal. Consequently the Project design included a component primarily
focused on strengthening the coastal water quality monitoring framework.


                                                     5
Changes in the triggers: Two of the triggers for progressing from Phase I to Phase II of
the Program were amended during the mid-term review. (i) The trigger concerning "The
upgraded monitoring system is in place and functional" was amended to "set the baseline
for wastewater discharged for the 11 municipalities participating in Phase I"; (ii) The
trigger concerning "The government has adopted legislation concerning the treatment
and discharge of municipal wastewaters in coastal areas to the relevant EU directives
and issued the declaration of `sensitive' and `less sensitive' areas" was amended to "HV
endorses the Sea Sensitivity Stud"'. The latter amendment was agreed as the process of
adopting the said legislation is beyond the scope of the Project and is politically complex
since it is linked to EU accession negotiations that would only be finalized at a much later
stage.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The strategic APL approach adopted ensured that there was room for addressing any
shortcomings identified in the first phase and improving them in subsequent phases of the
Program. The Project was relevant and its objective (as defined in the Loan Agreement)
was responsive to Croatia's development priorities and the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for the country. The rationale for the Bank's involvement was sound
given its previous involvement with the Coastal Areas Management Programme within
the framework of the Mediterranean Action Plan in other parts of Croatia such as Split
and Eastern Slavonia, and its experience in environmental management and urban water
supply and wastewater treatment projects in other countries. Project preparation and
design was based on sound analysis for purposes of investment lending of the technical,
environmental, institutional, economic and social issues related to Croatia's Adriatic
Coastal waters. Detailed preparatory work including engineering and technical designs
for the first year of the Project, including environmental and social assessments, financial
models, and tariff schedules were completed before appraisal and agreed upon with the
respective municipal officials. The Borrower, through HV, was closely involved in
Program/Project preparation and the Government demonstrated its commitment through
the implementation of supportive sector reforms and allocation of about Euro 1 million
from its budget for project preparation. Critical risks to the Project successfully meeting
its objectives were identified and rated overall as moderate, and appropriate measures to
mitigate them were identified during preparation.

The main shortcoming in the quality at entry of the Project related to the formulation of
the development objective as stated in the PAD and its alignment with the relevant key
outcome indicator in the Results Framework. The objective as stated in the PAD was
somewhat ambiguous because there were no clear EU2 ambient quality standards for the

2
  EU standards apply only to bathing areas, which are not much affected by the wastewater discharges
(before or after the Project). It was agreed to keep the existing indicator to measure the quality of the
bathing water (which needs to be maintained), and add another indicator to better capture the actual impact
of the Project. The additional indicator was: "reduced pollution load discharged into coastal area in
participating municipalities (measured by reduced BOD/SS in wastewater treatment plant (WWTP)
effluent)".


                                                     6
Sea in general at the time. EU standards apply only to bathing areas, hence the outcome
indicator on "% samples from monitoring bathing and shellfish areas water quality
complying with EU standards in participating municipalities" was not well suited for
measuring sea water quality improvements in most of the municipalities because the
investments made through the Project typically impacted parts of the Sea other than the
bathing and shellfish areas. In the said bathing and shellfish areas, water quality was in
fact found to be high during implementation. It should be pointed out however that the
definition of the PDO in the PAD, which did not refer to EU ambient quality standards,
was more appropriate. During implementation the team brought these issues to the
attention of Management to explore remedies, including the possibility of restructuring
the Project to address them. It was agreed that the benefits of restructuring would not
outweigh the transaction costs nor substantively change implementation of Phase I, which
at the time was due to close within the year. Therefore to address the identified
weaknesses, the Results Framework was strengthened by adding relevant indicators that
would better capture the impact of the Project. Given the adaptable nature of the APL, the
lessons were incorporated in the design of Phase II and both the development objective
and relevant indicators were revised. In light of these shortcomings the ICR rates the
quality at entry for Phase I of the program as moderately satisfactory.

2.2 Implementation

Physical Cultural Safeguards Issues: Several sites of important archaeological value
dating as far back as the Roman empire were excavated during construction of
investments in some towns such as Pula. Although adequate procedures for addressing
these issues were in place under the Project, their resolution resulted in loss of time, in
some cases up to a year.

Delays in obtaining construction permits and property rights issues: Significant
delays were encountered in implementation of construction works in some towns such as
Opatija due to delays in obtaining construction permits from relevant local and central
government authorities. Resolution of property rights issues including processing of
expropriation also resulted in additional loss of time. Most of the delays in construction
were the result of the lengthy process required to establish rights in the maritime domain
or to transfer land from one government unit to another.

Location of sites: There were difficulties in securing the location of suitable sites for
WWTPs in some cities due to the `not in my backyard (NIMBY)' thinking3, which is a
common problem in securing sites for WWTPs.

Asset Ownership Issues: Completion and commissioning of the WWTP in Biograd was
seriously delayed because the Mayor denied the contractor permission to make the


3
  The so-called `NIMBY' (not in my backyard) syndrome reflects the propensity of local citizens and
officials to insist on siting unwanted but necessary facilities such as those considered to have a potential for
adverse impacts on the environment, anywhere but in their own community.



                                                       7
electrical connection to the plant pending resolution of ownership issues with the other
three municipalities to be served by the Plant. This issue was later resolved through
discussion and negotiation with all stakeholders, with support from the Bank team and
Government.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
HV through the SPSC was responsible overall for M&E of the sub-projects against the
performance indicators while the MWSCs through the sub-loan and implementation
agreement with the SPSC were responsible for M&E in their respective sub-projects.
M&E arrangements under the Project were adequate, with moderate shortcomings mainly
stemming from the issues already discussed regarding the Results Framework, which
were remedied in design of Phase II. Another monitoring weakness related to the lack of
reliable baseline data with respect to several indicators. On balance the Project design
addressed this issue by designing Component 3 primarily to strengthen Croatia's coastal
waters monitoring network. Moreover at appraisal specific targets were not set for the
performance indicators given the financial intermediary approach whereby some of the
participating cities were yet to be confirmed and baseline data was not fully available. In
these cases targets were introduced during implementation.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environmental Assessment: Project design took into account the Bank's safeguards
policies and included procedures and implementation arrangements to ensure full
consideration of environmental safeguards in accordance with OP 4.01. The Project was
rated Financial Intermediary (FI) given that specific physical investments to be financed
were to be defined during the course of implementation on the basis of the sub-projects in
participating cities. Overall, in most towns management of the Environmental
Assessment (EA) process was carried out in a satisfactory manner in accordance with the
agreed arrangements during implementation although there were shortcomings in
environmental monitoring in some cities such as Opuzen and Rogoznica, which were
later rectified on the advice of the Bank team.

Involuntary Resettlement and Physical Cultural Resources: Both safeguards were
triggered in Phase I. A Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework (LARPF)
was prepared based on existing requirements and standard practices in Croatia and
approved by the Bank prior to appraisal and the Operations Manual contained provisions
for managing chance finds. The LARPF required a simple land acquisition plan for each
sub-project, which had to be approved by the Bank. In practice, there was little
acquisition of private land and only one instance of expropriation in the Phase I
investments and little acquisition of right of way through private property. Most rights of
way were granted without direct compensation, or residential connections were provided
in lieu of compensation. HVJP obtained the services of a lawyer to advise municipalities
on land acquisition issues as needed even though many municipalities already had
experience with land acquisition and did not need additional support. The Ministry of
Culture identified possible sites of historical value during the final design stage and
oversaw construction in those areas. Croatian laws and regulations dealing with physical



                                            8
cultural resources are fully consistent with OP 4.11. County offices of the Ministry of
Culture and local archaeological museums investigated and managed chance finds
professionally, as demonstrated by their response to discoveries in Pula that triggered the
policy.

International Waterways: During project preparation, procedures for notification of
riparians of the Adriatic Sea about the Project were adhered to in accordance with OP
7.50. The Government informed the riparian countries of the Program content and
proposed investments even though they were not expected to result in any adverse
effects. No objections were received.

Procurement Compliance: Procurement arrangements under the Project were reviewed
periodically as part of Bank supervisions and were found to be satisfactory. HVJP has
competent and well-educated staff with adequate procurement skills and experience.
Bank post-reviews of procurement documentation revealed no serious deviations or
issues of concern.

Financial Management (FM) Compliance: The FM arrangements under the Project
were reviewed periodically as part of Bank supervisions and also found to be satisfactory.
HVJP has well-trained, competent FM staff with experience in managing Bank projects.
Adequate control procedures were in place and interim un-audited financial statements
(IFRs) acceptable to the Bank were submitted to the Bank regularly. No significant
inconsistencies were identified and any discrepancies were corrected in due time. All
audits of financial statement reports were unqualified.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The triggers for proceeding from Phase I to Phase II of the APL were substantially
achieved and lessons learned from Phase I were incorporated in the design of Phase II.
The latter was prepared and approved by the Bank's Board on December 11, 2008 and
became effective on June 4, 2009. Phase II is supported by an IBRD loan for Euro 60
million and a GEF grant of US$6.4 million and is being implemented under the same
loan terms as Phase I. Phase II will be implemented over a period of five years and will
scale up the number of cities participating in the Project from 11 to 30 using the same
financing structure as for Phase I. Five of the eleven participating Municipal Water and
Sewerage Companies (MWSCs) will likely take further sub-loans in Phase II of the
Project (including the larger towns of Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, and Opatija.)

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: High

The relevance of the PDO of improving the quality of Croatia's Adriatic coastal waters as
defined in the Loan Agreement4 is rated high, as it not only reflects Croatia's

4
    Refer to Section 1.2 on the discrepancy between the PDO in the PAD and Loan Agreement.


                                                    9
development priorities at appraisal which focused on fostering growth and creating
conditions for competitiveness through maintaining existing infrastructure and protecting
the environment, especially in the coastal area, but also supports one of the goals in the
FY09-12 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) dated August 8, 2008, to support the
completion of Croatia's EU accession process. Improving wastewater collection and
treatment is considered a high priority in achieving this goal.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The ICR assesses achievement of the PDO as moderately satisfactory considering its
efficacy on the basis of the definition of the PDO in the Loan Agreement, which refers
simply to improving Croatia's Adriatic coastal waters, as well as the extent to which the
MWSCs achieved operational and financial sustainability as measured by the relevant
performance indicators. Table 1 below and Annex 2 provide a summary of results in the
eleven cities.

Overall, coastal water pollution in the Adriatic Sea adjacent to the participating cities was
reduced, resulting in improved water quality due to the Project. While the first outcome
indicator on the percentage samples from monitoring bathing and shellfish areas water
quality complying with EU standards does not adequately reflect achievement of the
Project objective, the second indicator shows significant reduction in pollution loads
entering the Adriatic Sea from untreated wastewaters in the Project cities by an average
of 122 tons of BOD (64%) and 145 tons of Suspended Solids (65%) per year. It is also
evident from the increase in the percentage of wastewater produced in the coastal
municipalities participating in the Project that is treated and disposed of according to EU
and Croatian requirements (from 6% to 45%) and in the increase in the population that is
able to connect to a wastewater collection system (from 56% to 68%), that there is a
significant improvement in the quality and coverage of wastewater services in the
participating municipalities. This not only contributed to overall environmental quality
and sustained potential for associated indirect economic benefits such as tourism and
aquaculture, but also represented progress towards Croatia's meeting EU environmental
requirements related to wastewater management.




                                             10
Table 1: Summary of Results based on achievement of aggregated key performance targets
                                                                                                        End of
                                                                                Baseline    Current
                                                                                                        project
        Objective                     Key Performance Indicators                 (May        (Nov
                                                                                                         (Nov
                                                                                 2004)       2009)
                                                                                                         2009)
  Project Development
                                      Outcome/Impact Indicator                               Actual     Target
         Objective
Improve the quality of       Percentage of samples from monitoring                97.9%       98.5%           98%
Croatia's Adriatic coastal   bathing and shellfish areas water quality
waters to meet EU            complying with EU standards in participating
ambient quality standards    municipalities.
in the participating         Reduced pollution load discharged into               None        BOD
municipalities, in a         coastal area in participating municipalities        (target    (122 ton)
financially and              (measured by reduced BOD/SS in WWTP                introduc        SS
operationally sustainable    effluent)5                                         ed later)      (145
manner                                                                                        tons)
                             Technical and financial situation of MWSCs:
                             · Unaccounted for water                               32%        30% 6      <35%
                             · Sewerage network coverage rate                      38%          68%        65%
                             · Operating Ratio                                     0.99        0.977       >1.1
                             · Debt Service Coverage Ratio                         4.73        8.168       >1.5
     Project Outputs                       Output Indicators                    Actual       Actual     Target
Strengthened institutional   The SPSC and the EIFF are established and              No           Yes        Yes
arrangements for finan-      capitalized.
cing and management of       Participating MWSCs contribute to project                No         Yes          Yes
wastewater treatment in      investments as planned.
Croatia
Improved and expanded        Percentage of wastewater produced in the                6%         45%           50%
wastewater treatment         coastal area municipalities participating in the
infrastructure in selected   Project that is treated and disposed of
coastal municipalities       according to EU and Croatian requirements.
monitoring system in
place                        Percentage of population in participating              56%         68%           65%
                             municipalities able to connect to adequate
                             wastewater collection system.
                             Km of wastewater collection systems                        0        102          101
                             constructed.
                             No. of WWTPs commissioned.                                 0          6            6
Monitoring System in         HV central and regional laboratories                       0          2            2
place                        rehabilitated, equipped, operational and inter-
                             calibrated.
                             Number of participating cities in which                    0         11           11
                             seawater quality monitoring system
                             operational and baseline indicators in place.
Highlighted results met requirement or exceeded targets.


5
  Indicator added in final year of the project to strengthen the DO, thus no end-of-project target was set.
6 The UFW figure is the average of data from six MWSCs with reliable data, for which five met the target.
7
  Number presented is average of Operating Ratios from nine MWSCs of which one exceeded target and
five were within a 10% margin.
8
  Number presented is average Debt Service Coverage Ratio for 8 MWSCs with data available, of which 5
exceeded target and one within 10 % margin.


                                                     11
Operational Sustainability: In addition to supporting project management, the Project
through implementation of the Institutional Strengthening components sought to
strengthen and bring utilities to reasonable levels of management, operational efficiency
and financial viability. Operational sustainability of the MWSCs in the participating
cities was assessed on the basis of indicators such as the levels of Unaccounted for Water
and Sewerage network coverage rate. While results varied from one MWSC to another
they showed an overall improvement in operational performance. The average increase
in sewerage network coverage rate from 56 to 68% in the participating cities exceeded
the target, although coverage within individual cities varied. Data on the levels of
Unaccounted for Water (UFW) from the MWSCs ranged between 20 and 30% with one
outlier (Opuzen which reduced from 63 to 53%), however on average it improved slightly
from 32% in 2004 to 30% in 2008. A detailed breakdown of the operational performance
indicators by city is presented in Annex 2.

Financial Sustainability: Overall, there are still significant differences among
participating MWSCs and although the trend remains positive several participating
utilities have not yet achieved desired financial sustainability. Achievement of financial
sustainability in the participating MWSCs was assessed through several indicators:
(i) Operating Ratio9 greater than 1.1; (ii) Current Ratio10 greater than 1.2; and (iii)
Interest Coverage Ratio11 greater than 1.5. During the mid-term review mission, the
Interest Coverage Ratio was replaced with Debt Service Coverage Ratio12, with a target
of above 1.5. Financial indicators were monitored by the team on a regular basis. A
breakdown of the financial performance indicators by city is presented in Annex 2. A
detailed assessment of the MWSCs financial performance undertaken in May 200913
indicated that in most MWSCs, the collection ratio, debt service coverage ratio and
current ratio were at satisfactory levels, and improved during the Project implementation
period. Most of the utility companies however were out of compliance with the Operating
Ratio target. Out of 10 monitored MWSCs, only Novigrad was able to meet the target of
1.1 in 2008. Other MWSCs had about equal operating revenues and expenses, resulting in
operating ratio around 1. This was mostly attributed to the fact that the water and
wastewater tariffs are not keeping up with the increased costs of operation and
maintenance (O&M), which will further increase now that project-financed investments
are completed. It should be noted that overall tariffs in the participating cities are quite
high already (>Euro 1.0/cubic meter and in some as high as Euro 3.0/cubic meter). While
a few utilities such as Rijeka adjusted their tariffs, most of the other utilities were not
immediately planning to do so, which will affect their financial sustainability. Average
Current Ratio (current assets/current liabilities) for the 10 listed municipal water
companies in 2008 was 1.36, above the 1.2 target. However, according to data provided,
five MWSCs were below that target. All of the MWSCs had satisfactory debt service

9
   Operating Ratio is equal to Total Operating Revenue divided by Total Operating Expense.
10
    Current Ratio is equal to Current Assets plus Paid Future Expenses and Deferred Income divided by
Current Liabilities and Deferred Payments and Future Period Income.
11
   Interest Coverage Ratio is measured as Earnings before Interest and taxes divided by Interest expenses.
12
   Debt Service Coverage Ratio equals to Internal Cash generation divided by Debt Service obligations.
13
   Data for November 2009 has been availed based on provisional accounts data for the year. 2008 data
however is based on audited accounts.


                                                    12
coverage ratio, with the exception of Opuzen and Rijeka. Finally, the average collection
ratio of the listed companies has been increasing, from an average of 77% in 2004 to 87%
in 2008.

Other impacts: Other impacts of the Project relate to assisting Croatia in carrying out
preparatory work for EU accession discussions with respect to the wastewater sub-sector.
The Project undertook a number of significant environmental studies that will assist with
EU accession negotiations. The most salient are: (i) a classification of the sensitivity of
the sea to define the level of treatment required as per EU directives; (ii) a Strategic
Environmental Assessment to assess the cumulative environmental impacts of the
Project; and (iii) consulting services to monitor the seawater quality of the coast, both at
the point of discharge from the WWTP and modeling of the pollution in the Project sites.

3.3 Efficiency

During appraisal, economic and financial analyses were conducted for the investments in
four of the eleven cities: Novigrad, Opatija, Biograd and Zadar participating in the
Project. The economic rates of return (ERR) were substantively positive and ranged from
11-24%, confirming that the sub-projects in all the cities were economically feasible.
The PAD did not present the methodology used for the cost-benefit analysis, which made
it difficult to replicate the analysis in the ICR. Failure to properly document and file this
methodology was a shortcoming in the presentation of the PAD. Nonetheless the ICR
has attempted to assess the efficiency of three of the four sub-projects that were identified
at appraisal, based on other methods such as cost effectiveness criteria. A summary of
the per capita costs at appraisal compared with the final costs is given in Table 2 below.

         Table 2. Summary of the per capita investment costs in three cities
                              Appraisal Cost       Appraisal                     Final per
                 Population
      City                      Estimate           Per capita    Final Cost       capita
                   served
                              (Euro millon)       Investment                    investment
1   Opatija        29,000         24.4                841           21.5            741
2   Biograd        10,500          9.9                942           10.7           1019
3   Zadar          75,000         17.7                236           15.2            203

Out of the three MWSCs reviewed, the final per capita investment costs for two of the
MWSCs, Opatija and Zadar are lower than the appraisal per capita investment cost
estimates. In light of the successful completion of the sub-projects in these towns at
lower actual investment costs than appraisal, it is assumed that the benefits materialized
and that investments financed under the respective sub-projects were feasible. Only in
the case of Biograd did the final per capita cost estimate of EUR 1,019 exceed the
appraisal per capita cost estimate of EUR 942. According to the sensitivity analysis
conducted at appraisal sub-projects would be economically feasible if cost overruns were
less than 10%, so it may be argued that even the investment in Biograd was economically
feasible.

Although a similar analysis has not been carried out for the remaining towns which had
not been confirmed at appraisal, the per capita investment costs vary widely from a low


                                             13
of HRK 390 (or US$70) for Makarska to a high of HRK 14.450 (US$2,650) for
Rogoznica, with a median value of HRK 2,640 (US$480). Such variations are to be
expected given the large range of population size of the Project towns. It is symptomatic
to find the highest per capita investment in the smallest town, Rogoznica, with only 1,100
permanent inhabitants. The reason for such a wide range of per capita investment costs
are the considerable economies of scale in this type of investments. It should be noted
that one of the guiding principles of sub-project evaluation and eligibility included
confirmation that the option considered was the least-cost option.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall outcome rating for the Project is moderately satisfactory in light of its high
relevance, moderately satisfactory efficacy and moderate efficiency with respect to
achievement of its objectives.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Not applicable.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The Program supported the consolidation of HV as the key institution for the
management of wastewater services in Croatia resulting in more efficient management of
these services. It also supported the Government's efforts to put in place an independent
environmental monitoring and evaluation capacity in the MEPPPC. The Program was
also designed to support technical and managerial capacity building at the local level
through HV and to support the institutional reform needed to create a favorable
environment for private sector participation as a mechanism for enhanced management
and for the mobilization of additional financial resources.

The SPSC was created as a subsidiary company within HV to manage and supervise
project implementation, reporting, procurement and disbursements, controlled by HV's
Department of Wastewater Management in cooperation with the respective water
utilities. However the expanded role of HVJP, d.o.o as a financial arm for the sector
envisaged in Phase I did not materialize as planned. An assessment of the efficacy of this
unit carried out in 2007 revealed that the SPSC had no employees of its own. It relied
entirely on loosely seconded Hrvatske Vode staff who work in the SPSC. Staff were
seconded without formal contracts as to the duration of their tenure within SPSC and
without any salary supplement for their demanding work within SPSC. Such an
arrangement limited the de facto autonomy of the SPSC and placed great demands on the
drive and self-motivation of SPSC staff and on its Director's ability to motivate them.

In spite of the formal differences in governance structure it would appear that the SPSC
productivity and quality of work is fairly comparable to the performance of the Project
Implementation Unit in Hrvatske Vode that was used under the Bank-financed Eastern



                                           14
Slavonia project. SPSC has been responsible for a large amount of the procurement-
related tasks under the Project. From November 2005 to March 2007 (a span of about 18
months) the SPSC staff of 10 professionals managed all such aspects for about 35 ICB
bids, and another 35 bids with National Competitive Bidding (NBC). As a comparison,
Hrvatske Vode with about 500 professional staff manages about 1,500 contracts annually,
of which about 500 contracts were under competitive procurement. In truth, Hrvatske
Vode has a wide range of activities but the relation between the number of competitive
bids and staff shows the large effort made by SPSC to implement the Project
successfully.

The quality of the SPSC implementation could have been further improved if its Director
had received additional advice and support as intended from a Supervisory Board or an
analogous body of experts. Article 14 of the SPSC Founding Statement provides details
on the Board of Supervisors where most of the members are nominated for five years.
The composition of the Board of Supervisors suffers from the peculiarity that only one of
the seven members is from Hrvatske Vode although HV owns the totality of shares in
HVJP. In the event, the Board of Supervisors, represented by its chairman, elected not to
meet more than twice: in September 2005 and in January 2006, respectively. The
infrequency of meetings deprived the SPSC director of the guidance and support that a
Supervisory Board brings, apart from sharing the responsibility for implementation.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
As a result of the wastewater investments in cities such as Pula and Rijeka there have
been positive improvements in the land-based environmental conditions in areas
impacted by the investments, which is expected to impact property values.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low

The risk to development outcome of the Project is low given the technical quality of the
investments, high capacity for implementation, and commitment from all levels of
government and stakeholders. This is evidenced by the strong demand for the Project
and the willingness to contribute financially to the investments, particularly from local
government, local utilities and citizens. All the MWSCs levied and collected adequate
surcharges to the tariff to contribute to the investments. Sustainability is also
strengthened by the programmatic approach of the Program and the coverage of a
cohesive area of the Adriatic Sea, with a long-term view that is shared by local
participants to improve their own environments and health, coupled with the objective to
protect and enhance the local tourism industry and economy. In addition, the long-term
objective is supported at higher levels with the ambition to meet agreed EU directives on
the quality of Adriatic Sea. In Phase I, HVJP acquired the capacity to solicit and prepare
sub-projects and implement them in accordance with Croatian and Bank requirements.



                                           15
Experience acquired in Phase I strengthens the sustainability for Phase II and the overall
Program. Mid-term and final assessments of Phase I were undertaken and lessons
learned were incorporated into the design of Phase II. The Program has also increased
awareness and participation by local governments and their MWSCs to decrease reliance
on central government funding.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Overall, Bank allocation of staff and resources were adequate and substantial preparatory
analytical work was carried out to facilitate sound preparation and appraisal of the
Program. Preparatory activities were consistent with the Bank's fiduciary and safeguards
requirements. The Bank team had very fruitful dialogue with relevant central and local
government officials which contributed to the appreciation of the concept and strong buy-
in to the Program by the participating cities as well as relevant policy reforms to facilitate
it. Further detail on the preparation is given in Section 2.1 above. There were however
shortcomings primarily related to formulation of the Project development objective and
selection of the relevant outcome indicator as discussed above, which affected the
Project's overall quality at entry. On balance however, the team identified the significant
weaknesses in the existing Sea Water monitoring system, including inter alia lack of
reliable baseline data, and Component 3 of the Project was specifically designed to
strengthen this system. Furthermore, it may be argued that the Project design, through
the adaptable nature of the APL, was designed to allow for learning and subsequent
remedy of the weaknesses from Phase I in subsequent phases.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
Overall, the quality of Bank supervision is rated satisfactory. Adequate budget and staff
resources with an appropriate skill mix were allocated throughout the Project
implementation period. Project supervision was carried out in a satisfactory manner, with
Washington-based staff and country-based staff complementing each other. In addition
to day-to-day coordination of activities, supervision missions covering overall
implementation progress, fiduciary aspects including procurement and financial
management and safeguards aspects were carried out at least twice a year. Mission aide-
memoires and Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs) were comprehensive
and candid, and they adequately reflected the performance in terms of both achievement
of objectives and implementation progress. Weaknesses in the design were identified and
addressed in a proactive manner, albeit, not as early as could have been, and the team was
instrumental in the dialogue and preparatory work that led to approval and
commencement of implementation of Phase II of the Program in a timely manner.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory



                                             16
The ICR rates the overall Bank performance as moderately satisfactory, considering the
moderately satisfactory rating for performance in ensuring quality at entry and
satisfactory quality of supervision that led to successful project implementation and
outcomes, as well as to an improved quality at entry for the second Phase.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Borrower performance is rated satisfactory on the basis of the Government's strong
supporting role during project preparation and implementation. There was close
coordination and dialogue between relevant government entities and the Bank at all
times, and the Government demonstrated its commitment to the program through sector
reforms including redefinition of responsibilities for HV and the MoE and establishment
of the SPSC as well as timely passing of the Water Act. In addition to providing timely
counterpart funding for implementation most of the time,14 government was able to
contribute Euro 1 million for project preparation.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The ICR rates the performance of the main implementing agencies as satisfactory. As
the main institutional player in the provision and management of wastewater services in
Croatia in addition to being the main implementing agency during preparation, HV was
closely involved in the Program/ Project preparation process. Through its SPSC (HVJP),
it was able to handle the overseeing of subprojects and TA activities under the Project
effectively. The envisaged organizational scheme did not quite function as originally
planned for most of the implementation period because most of its staff who were
seconded from departments within HV maintained their old responsibilities and
compensation arrangements. Consequently, the unit was understaffed and staff, although
competent and dedicated, were overstretched. Nonetheless they were able to adequately
carry out all technical, fiduciary, legal and safeguard responsibilities with respect to the
Project under the difficult circumstances. In light of the increased number of sub-projects
under Phase II it was recommended to increase the number of staff.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Overall Borrower performance takes into consideration both the Government and the
Implementing Agency's performance during preparation and implementation. On the
basis of justification provided above, the Borrower's overall performance is rated
Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned


14
  Counterpart funds were timely except in 2009 when the Government requested the Bank to increase its
percentage of financing on all expenditure categories from 50% to 72%, due to fiscal constraints caused by
the global financial crisis.


                                                    17
The following lessons have been learned from the Project. Several of these lessons have
been taken into consideration in the design of Phase II of the APL.

 (i)    As in all projects, a high level of Borrower commitment and capacity is essential
        for successful project implementation and ensuring sustainability.

(ii)    Adaptable Program Loans are suitable for reaching long-term objectives in sectors
        such as wastewater management through a measurable phased approach and
        subsequent phases provide the Bank and the Government with the opportunity to
        improve project design and performance.

(iii)   Performance monitoring indicators should be carefully selected to be able to fully
        capture achievement of the Project/program development objectives and the
        Results Framework should be aligned with the objective.

(iv)    The creation of the Special Purpose Subsidiary Company (SPSC) was an
        interesting departure from the tradition of relying on project implementation units
        within the Borrower. However, it might have functioned better had it been given
        the necessary support to achieve autonomy such as: (a) sufficient staff designated
        exclusively to the SPSC with adequate incentives; (b) an operational Board to
        provide the SPSC management with guidance; and (c) an ability to earn a margin
        on its financing extended in order to gradually build up equity. On balance, the
        added value of this approach appears to have been limited.

 (v)    Users are willing to pay higher costs (in this case over 50% of the capital costs)
        for sewerage where there is a specific economic interest such as in this case,
        protecting of tourist markets.

(vi)    Investment surcharges from users can be an effective means to reveal demand and
        improve sustainability of investments. However, as in many places, increasing
        tariffs to achieve financial sustainability is often a challenge.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
None.

(b) Cofinanciers
None.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
None.




                                            18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                 Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                                                 Percentage of
         Components           Estimate (USD Estimate (USD
                                                                  Appraisal
                                 millions)        millions)
 1. COASTAL
ENVIRONMENTAL                       73.25             92.66          127
INFRASTRUCTURE
 2. INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING AND                     5.55             5.81          105
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT
 3. STRENGTHENING OF
THE COASTAL WATERS                    9.12             9.87          108
MONITORING NETWORK
 UNALLOCATED                          7.13


         Total Baseline Cost           95.05           108.34        114
Physical Contingencies                  0.00
Price Contingencies                     0.00
          Total Project Costs          95.05
Front-end fee PPF                       0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                      0.00
   Total Financing Required            95.05           108.34        114



(b) Financing
                                             Appraisal Actual/Late
                                  Type of     Estimate st Estimate Percentage
        Source of Funds
                                Cofinancing     (USD        (USD    of Appraisal
                                              millions)   millions)
                                Loan
Borrower                                    47.51       54.3        114
International Bank for         Loan
                                               47.54      54.1      114
Reconstruction and Development




                                         19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1 ­ Coastal Environmental Infrastructure. The main outputs of the
Project are summarized in Table A2.1 below.

                      Table A2.1 Component 1 - Summary of investments
              Combined water
                                                                                        Sub-marine
               and sewerage                                Wastewater
                                  Sewers     Pumping                      Population      outfall
 MWSC        company (WS) or                                treatment
                                   (km)      Stations                     equivalent     (length,
             separate sewerage                                 plant
                                                                                          depth)
               company (S)
Biograd             WS               19         5        Mechanical1         27,000     3.6km/30m
Dugi Rat            WS                2         2        Mechanical2         30,000         -
Makarska            WS                0         0        Mechanical          50,000         -
Novigrad             S                7         1        Mechanical3         33,000     1.5km/23m
Omis                WS                4         5        Mechanical2      (see Dugi         -
                                                                           Rat)
Opatija            WS                 52         17         -                  -              -
Opuzen             WS                  2          0         Mechanical        9,000           -
Pula                S                  3          3         Mechanical4     50,000            -
Rijeka             WS                  7          3         -                  -              -
Rogoznica          WS                  6          4         -                  -              -
Zadar               S                  0          0         Biological      100,000       4.1km/31m
TOTAL                                102         40         7               299,000
1
  Biograd WWTP is completed but not connected to electric grid
2
  Dugi Rat and Omis have a joint Mechanical Wastewater Treatment Plant serving both cities
3
  Novigrad WWTP is under construction but will be completed in Phase II of the Program
4
  Pula WWTP is only being rehabilitated and part of the equipment replaced


Tables A2.2 and A2.3 present a summary of the technical and financial results indicators in the
participating cities.




                                                 20
                                         Table A2.2. Sewerage network coverage and wastewater disposal coverage rates
                                Population able to    Population with Population able Population with
                   Population                                                                                           BOD      BOD       SS      SS
                                    connect to            adequate      to connect to     adequate    Unaccounted
    MWSC            number                                                                                            produced removed produced removed
                                    wastewater         collection and    wastewater    collection and  for water (%)
                     (2001)                                                                                              * (t)   ** (t)   * (t)   ** (t)
                                      network         disposal system    network (%) disposal system
                                Baseline Mar-10      Baseline Mar-10 Baseline Mar-10 Baseline Mar-10 Baseline 2008     Oct-09 Oct-09     Oct-09  Oct-09
Biograd              13,305        2,100     4,515       -        4,515 16%      34%    0%       34%     27%      27%     9.9     0.5     11.5     0.6
Dugi Rat              3,507          -         365       -          365  0%      10%    0%       10%     30%      27%     0.8     0.0      0.9     0.0
Makarska             13,033      12,040 13,033           -      13,300 92%      100%    0%      102%     25%      25%    29.1     2.9     34.0     3.4
Novigrad              5,004        3,000     3,400       -          -   60%      68%    0%        0%                      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Omis                  9,663        2,470     2,990       -        2,990 26%      31%    0%       31%     30%      26%     6.5     0.3      7.6     0.4
Opatija              25,088      13,630 20,300           -          -   54%      81%    0%        0%                      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Opuzen                5,163          320     1,280       -        1,280  6%      25%    0%       25%     63%      53%     2.8     0.1      3.3     0.2
Pula                 62,984      45,708 46,880        12,300    17,580 73%       74%    20%      28%                     11.6     1.2     13.5     1.3
Rijeka (Grobnik)     12,000          -       3,600       -        3,600  0%      30%    0%       30%     19%      20%     7.9     0.8      9.2     0.9
Rogoznica             2,324          -         385       -          385  0%      17%    0%       17%                      0.8     0.0      1.0     0.0
Zadar                71,468      45,000 56,250           -      56,250 63%       79%    0%       79%                    123.2    117.0   143.7    139.4
Total               223,539     124,268 152,998       12,300 100,265                                                    192.6    122.9   224.8    146.3
Average                           56%       68%        6%        45%    35%      50%    2%       32%     32%      30%    0%      64%       0.0       65%




                                                                                         21
                    Table A2.3. Summary of Financial Indicators (2004-2009)
                               2004           2005          2006           2007          2008           2009*
Operating Ratio
Biograd                         1.13          0.93           0.88          0.87           0.86           0.88
Makarska                        1.00          1.01           0.99          0.96           0.99           1.09
Omis (+Dugi Rat)                1.00          1.00           0.97          1.00           1.00           1.00
Opatija                         0.98          0.98           0.99          0.98           0.99           1.00
Opuzen                          0.80          1.02           1.08          1.02           0.94           0.96
Pula                            0.94          0.97           0.87          0.94           1.00           0.99
Rijeka                          0.89          0.79           0.87          0.86           0.81           0.74
Sibenik (Rogoznica)             1.08          0.98           1.04
Umag (Novigrad)                 1.02          1.00           1.21          1.11           1.11           1.10
Zadar                           1.00          1.20           0.95          0.87           0.94           1.00
              Average           0.99          0.99           0.98          0.96           0.96           0.97
Current Ratio
Biograd                         2.54          1.04           1.81          1.92           1.14           1.44
Makarska                        3.70          3.21           1.72          1.87           2.69           2.57
Omis (+Dugi Rat)                1.25          1.65           1.37          1.39           1.26           1.17
Opatija                         1.59          1.56           1.76          1.41           1.71           0.73
Opuzen                          1.13          1.19           1.34          0.99           0.90           0.92
Pula                            4.31          3.36           2.96          2.77           2.49           2.55
Rijeka                          1.63          1.48           1.61          1.32           1.04           0.00
Sibenik (Rogoznica)             2.44          1.84           1.80
Umag (Novigrad)                 1.25          0.80           1.34          0.81           0.69           0.71
Zadar                           3.76          1.93           0.60          0.36           0.28           0.36
              Average           2.36          1.81           1.63          1.43           1.36           1.30
Collection Ratio
Biograd                         80%           80%            83%            88%          78%             81%
Makarska                        76%           80%            78%            99%          95%             95%
Omis (+Dugi Rat)                77%           75%            78%            79%          77%             76%
Opatija                         84%           87%            86%            89%          85%             87%
Opuzen                          70%           71%            72%            66%          92%             92%
Pula                            50%           52%            67%            73%          77%             80%
Rijeka                          85%           85%            85%            86%          85%             85%
Sibenik (Rogoznica)             51%           57%            62%
Umag (Novigrad)                 98%           96%            98%            94%          93%             97%
Zadar                           98%          105%           103%          104%           99%             96%
              Average           77%           79%            81%            86%          87%             88%
 Debt service coverage ratio
Biograd                         4.78          5.61            3.75          4.18          3.88           1.79
Makarska                      17.32          19.89          21.44       1363.75         86.55           49.50
Omis (+Dugi Rat)                2.19          2.17            1.58          2.78          3.32           1.42
Opatija                         4.97          6.58          21.58           1.67          5.15           5.37
Opuzen                          0.00          0.71            0.46          1.22          0.61           0.56
Pula                            4.74          3.05            4.51          3.73          4.65           3.70
Rijeka                          1.35          0.95            1.48          2.36          1.03           1.09
Sibenik (Rogoznica)             1.12          0.93            2.31
Umag (Novigrad)                 1.41          0.75            1.25          2.38          1.73           1.87
Zadar
              Average           4.73          4.52            6.48          2.62        13.37            8.16
*All 2009 financial data based on projection at project closing since audited data was not available.




                                                     22
Component 2: Institutional Strengthening and Program Management. All activities
envisaged under this component including the following, were carried out:
  (i) Supply and installation of information technology equipment.
 (ii) Development of water pollution control institutional framework.
(iii) Final designs, associated Environmental and Social assessments and supervision
       of investments financed under approved sub-projects.
(iv) Technical Assistance to the SPSC for project implementation and evaluation,
       monitoring and financial management.
 (v)   Technical assistance for the strengthening of municipal water utilities.

Although the above activities were completed in a satisfactory manner, the impact on the
improvement of the performance of the participating MWSCs was limited. Therefore,
this component has been redesigned in Phase II, with the aim to improve planning and
targeting of institutional strengthening activities.

Results for Indicators15 of Financial Sustainability. As stipulated in the Project Appraisal
Document (main loan conditions), the participating MWSCs should maintain (i)
 operating ratio16 greater than 1.1; (ii) current ratio17 greater than 1.2; and (iii) interest
coverage ratio18 greater than 1.5. During the mid-term review mission, the interest
coverage ratio was replaced with debt service coverage ratio19, with the target above 1.5.
The results of the above as well as the collection ratio of these 10 municipal companies
are presented below.

Operating Ratio. Out of 10 monitored MWSCs, only Novigrad was able to meet the
operating ratio target of 1.1 in 2008. Other MWSCs have about equal operating revenues
and expenses, resulting in operating ratio around 1. The input data are transferred from
companies' official financial statements, and in some cases include the municipal
subsidies.

Component 3: Strengthening of the Coastal Waters Monitoring Network.

Component 3a. HV Monitoring: The objective of this sub-component was to assess the
impact of wastewaters entering the sea by activities financed by the Project. Because the
majority of outfalls were not operational in 2008 (the period of monitoring) and for those
in operation a relatively small number of Population Equivalent was connected, the
nutrient load at sampling sites was minimal. As a consequence, the number of sampling
points was decreased. The results of this work can potentially feed into: (i) flow data for
future monitoring when the outfalls are operational, though the hydrodynamics may
change by the discharge plume; and (ii) model calibration performed by Component 3b
of the Project.
15
   Results for 2009 are based on provisional unaudited accounts data.
16
   Operating ratio is equal to total operating revenue divided by total operating expense.
17
   Current ratio is equal to current assets plus paid future expenses and deferred income divided by current
liabilities and deferred payments and future period income.
18
   Interest coverage ratio is measured as earnings before interest and taxes divided by interest expenses.
19
   DSCR equals to internal cash generation divided by debt service obligations.


                                                     23
Component 3b. MEPPPC monitoring: The objective of this work was to assist MEPPPC
in the development of a monitoring network and compliance with EU directives. This
subcomponent produced: (i) a final report, (ii) model results based on field calibration
and the associated data set; and (iii) working models delivered to MEPPPC.




                                          24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

In the case of Croatia the main driver for investments in wastewater management is the
convergence with the directives of the European Union for which Croatia has accession
status. Specifically, Croatia is implementing wastewater projects to enable compliance
with the EU Wastewater Directive. Specifically, the EU Wastewater Treatment Directive
91/271/EEC requires:

   ·   The Collection and treatment of waste water in all agglomerations of > 2,000
       population equivalents (p.e.);

   ·   Secondary treatment of all discharges from agglomerations of > 2,000 p.e., and
       more advanced treatment for agglomerations >10,000 population equivalents in
       designated sensitive areas and their catchments;

   ·   A requirement for pre-authorization of all discharges of urban wastewater, of
       discharges from the food-processing industry and of industrial discharges into
       urban wastewater collection systems;

   ·   Monitoring of the performance of treatment plants and receiving waters; and

   ·   Controls of sewage sludge disposal and re-use, and treated waste water re-use
       whenever it is appropriate.

Accordingly, the decision has been taken to offer participating municipalities financial
incentives to comply with the EU Wastewater Treatment Directive. In the case of the
municipalities on the Adriatic Sea the financial incentives are coupled with the incentives
to create the conditions for a sustainable environment in view of the economic
importance of the tourism industry. The fact that Croatia is striving to attract upscale
tourism makes it all the more important to offer a clean and sustainable marine
environment.

Those making the decisions to invest in wastewater management can then focus on how
to comply with the Wastewater Treatment Objective as cheaply as possible through least-
cost analysis. To this end, Hravatske Vode has attempted to minimize the investment
costs through complementing the already existing wastewater infrastructure. Participating
municipalities have generally been able to finance the first two stages of the wastewater
sequence: (i) the individual household connection to (ii) the secondary sewers that are
laid in the streets of the towns. On occasion, some municipalities may have built trunk
sewers to intercept the wastewaters collected and running in the secondary sewers, or
even submarine outfalls. The economic investment criterion has then attempted to
complete all the five steps of wastewater management: (i) household connections:
(ii) secondary sewers; (iii) intercepting trunk sewers that convey collected wastewaters to
the treatment plants; (iv) wastewater treatment plants; and (v) submarine outfalls through
which the treated effluents are disposed. The table at the end of this annex shows the
results of this optimality analysis for the 11 municipalities.


                                            25
The per capita investment costs vary widely from a low of HRK 390 (or US$70) for
Makarska to a high of HRK 14.450 (US$2,650) for Rogoznica and with a median value
of HRK 2,640 (US$480). Such variations are to be expected given the large range of
population served. It is symptomatic to find the highest per capita investment in the
smallest town, Rogoznica, with only 1,100 permanent inhabitants. Although the per
capita costs are high, they would have been still higher for towns with investments
required for: (i) house connections; (ii) secondary sewers; (iii) interceptors;
(iv) wastewater treatment; and (v) submarine outfalls. Instead, without exception the
Project towns had already investments in two or more of the five stages and some, such
as Rogoznica and Omis, already had four of the five stages resolved before the Project.

Cost effectiveness evaluation. Out of the three MWSCs reviewed, the final per capita
investment costs for two of the MWSCs are lower than the appraisal per capita
investment cost estimates. The appraisal per capita investment costs for Opatija was
EUR 841, while the final per capita investment cost is only EUR 741. The appraisal per
capita capital investment cost estimate for Zadar was EUR 236, while the final per capita
cost is EUR 203. Only in the case of Biograd did the final per capita cost estimate of
EUR 1,019 exceed the appraisal per capita cost estimate of EUR 942, but it is still within
10% margin defined at appraisal.

Financial Sustainability Evaluation. Achievement of financial sustainability in the
participating MWSCs was assessed through several indicators: (i) Operating Ratio greater
than 1.1; (ii) Current Ratio greater than 1.2; and (iii) Interest Coverage Ratio greater than
1.5. During the mid-term review mission, the Interest Coverage Ratio was replaced with
Debt Service Coverage Ratio, with the target above 1.5. A detailed assessment of the
MWSCs financial performance undertaken in May 2009 indicated that in most MWSCs,
the collection ratio, debt service coverage ratio and current ratio were at satisfactory
levels, and improved during the Project implementation period.

Operating ratio. Most of the MWSCs have been out of compliance with the Operating
Ratio target. Out of 10 monitored MWSCs, Novigrad was able to meet the Operating
Ratio target of 1.1 in 2007 and 2008, which was an improvement from its 2004 level of
1.02. Opatija, Omis, and Makarska did not experience substantial change in their
Operating Ratios over the Project years and their Ratios stayed very close to 1. The
Operating Ratios for most other MWSCs declined slightly but most MWSCs still have
about equal operating revenues and expenses, resulting in Operating Ratios of around 1.

Current Ratio. Six out of nine MWSCs reviewed have had Current Ratios over the
Project years that are at or above the targeted value of 1.2. Some MWSCs, such as Pula,
Opatija, and Makarska, exceed the target indicator by substantial margin with 2.49, 1.71,
and 2.69 Current Ratios in 2008, respectively. Average Current Ratio for the 10 listed
municipal water companies in 2008 was 1.36, above the 1.2 target.

Debt Service Coverage Ratio. All but one MWSCs have maintained Debt Service
Coverage Ratios above the target of 1.5 for most of the Project years. Most MWSCs,



                                             26
namely Pula, Opatija, Biograd, Omis, and Makarska, have had Debt Service Coverage
Ratios that have substantially exceeded the targeted 1.5 level throughout the review
period. Only Rijeka and Opuzen did not meet the Debt Service Coverage Ratio target,
although the former's coverage level declined below the target only in 2008. Average
Debt Service Coverage Ratio for the 10 listed MWSCs in 2008 was 13.37, well above the
1.5 target.

Collection Ratio. The Collection Ratio of the listed companies has been increasing, from
an average of 77% in 2004 to 87% in 2008. Virtually all of the MWSCs either improved
their Collection Ratios or maintained the same level they had at the beginning of the
review period.      Some of the MWSCs improved their collection performance
substantially. For example, Pula's Collection Ratio improved from 50% in 2004 to 77%
in 2008. Makarska improved its Collection Ratio from 76% to 95%, and Opuzen
improved it from 70% to 92% over the same period.




                                          27
                                                Table A3.1. Waastewater (WW) System Components and Costs
                                                                 Investment (HRK million)                               Per capita cost (HRK)
                              WW                                                                              WW
                                          WW              WW                                                              WW         WW          Total
  Town        Population     House                                     WW Treatment          WW Disposal    Intercep-
                                        Collection    Interception                                                      Treatment   Disposal    Project
                           connection                                                                          tion

Biograd         10,500        ENP         ENP        CCPCP     66.6     CCPCP         13.8   CCPCP    8.9      6,340        1,310        850      8,500
Dugi Rat         7,300        ENP         ENP        CCPCP     14.0     CCPCP          5.7     ENP             1,920          780                 2,700
Makarska        14,000        ENP         ENP        CCPCP      0.5     CCPCP          4.9     ENP                40          350                   390
Novigrad         4,000        ENP         ENP        CCPCP      6.2     CCPCP         13.2   CCPCP    5.8      1,550        3,300       1,450     6,300
Omis             6,500        ENP         ENP        CCPCP     16.4       ENP                  ENP             2,520                              2,520
Opatija         29,000        ENP         ENP        CCPCP    111.6    CCPCP II                ENP             3,850                              3,850
Opuzen           3,200        ENP         ENP        CCPCP      4.8     CCPCP         2.7      ENP             1,500          840                 2,340
Pula            58,600        ENP         ENP        CCPCP     48.8     CCPCP         2.7      ENP               830           50                   880
Rijeka          12,000        ENP         ENP        CCPCP     31.7       ENP                  ENP             2.64-                              2,640
Rogoznica        1,100        ENP         ENP        CCPCP     15.9       ENP                  ENP            14,450                             14,450
Zadar           75,000        ENP         ENP        CCPCP      5.1     CCPCP         91.5   CCPCP   26.3         70        1,220        360      1,640

Notes:   CCPCP=Croatia Coastal Cities Pollution Control Project Phase 1
         CCPCP II=Croatia Coastal Cities Pollution Control Project 2 (Phase II)
         WW=wastewater
         ENP=existing, sunk cost, not financed by CCPCP
         WW house connections were not eligible to be financed by CCPCP
         WW collection, secondary sewers, were not eligible to be financed by CCPCP
         WW interception, interceptors and trunk sewers, were financed by CCPCP
         WW treatment was financed by CCPCP
         WW disposal, submarine outfalls, were financed by CCPCP




                                                                           28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                  Responsibility/
          Names                     Title               Unit
                                                                    Specialty
Lending
Name
Manuel G. Marino         Team Leader, Lead Water       ECSIE Engineer,
                         and Sanitation Specialist           Environmental
David N. Sislen          Co-Team Leader                ECSIE Economist
Stjepan Gabric           Water and Sanitation          ECSIE Water and Sanitation
                         Specialist
Stan Peabody             Senior Social Specialist      ECSSD Social Safeguards
Rita Klees               Senior Environmental          ECSSD Environmental
                         Specialist                          Assessment
Xavier Chauvot de        Engineer                      ECSIE Engineer
Beauchene
Takao Ikegami            Sanitary Engineer             ECSIE Engineer
Salim Benouniche         Procurement Specialist        ECSPS Procurement
Mike Gascoyne            Financial Management          ECSPS Financial Management
                         Specialist
Irina L. Kichigina       Senior Counsel                LEGEM Lawyer
Menahem Libhaber         Senior Water and Sanitation   LCSSD Peer Reviewer
                         Specialist
Louis Saliba             Environmental Health          ECSSD Peer Reviewer
                         Specialist
Michael Schaeffer        Consultant                    ECSIE   Financial
Stanislav Tedeschi       Consultant                    ECSIE   Water and Sanitation
Carlos Orsini            Consultant                    ECSIE   Institutional
Domagoj Racic            Consultant                    ECSIE   Economist
Vladimir Skendrovic      Consultant                    ECSIE   Engineer
Maria Teresa Lim         Program Assistant             ECSIE   Team Support




                                        29
Supervision/ICR
Michael Webster          Senior Water and Sanitation   ECSS6   Task Team Leader
                         Specialist
Lynette Alemar           Senior Program Assistant      ECSSD   Team Support
Maha J. Armaly           Senior Urban Finance          ECSS6   Urban Finance
                         Specialist
Salim Benouniche         Lead Procurement Specialist   MNAPR   Procurement
Ljiljana Boranic         Team Assistant                ECCHR   Team Support
Sandy Chang              Consultant                    SASDU   Consultant
Xavier Chauvot De        Senior Water & Sanitation     MNSWA   Water & Sanitation
Beauchene                Specialist
Majed El-Bayya           Lead Procurement Specialist   ECSC2 Procurement
Stjepan Gabric           Senior Operations Officer     ECSS6 Operations
Hana Huzjak              Operations Analyst            ECSS6 Operations
Henry Laino              Consultant                    LCSUW Consultant
Lamija Marijanovic       Financial Management          ECSC3 Financial
                         Specialist                          Management
Philippe Marin           Senior Water & Sanitation     MNSWA Water & Sanitation
                         Specialist
Manuel G. Marino         Lead Water and Sanitation     ECSS6   Water & Sanitation
                         Spec
Mirela Mart              Consultant                    ECSPS   Consultant
Shelley Mcmillan         Water Resources Spec.         AFTWR   Water Resources
Kishore Nadkarni         Consultant                    EASCS   Consultant
Norval Stanley Peabody   Consultant                    ECSSD   Consultant
Klas B. Ringskog         Consultant                    ECSSD   Consultant
Sudipto Sarkar           Sector Leader                 EASIN   Sector Leader
David N. Sislen          Sector Leader                 LCSSD   Sector Leader
Natasa Vetma             Operations Officer            ECSS3   Operations
Antonia G. Viyachka      Procurement Specialist        ECSC2   Procurement
Iwona Warzecha           Senior Financial              ECSC3   Financial
                         Management Specialist                 Management
Amelito Velasco          Procurement Assistant         ECSC2   Procurement
Klas Ringskog            Consultant                    ECSSD   ICR Co-Author
Sanyu Lutalo             Environmental Engineer        ECSS6   ICR Primary Author




                                        30
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                  USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                        travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                    2                          7.73
  FY01                                    7                         49.67
  FY02                                   11                         96.39
  FY03                                   17                         84.18
  FY04                                   39                        220.48
  FY05                                                              -2.05

                          Total:         76                        456.40
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                   20                         93.65
  FY06                                   22                        110.85
  FY07                                   20                        112.18
  FY08                                   20                         74.86
  FY09                                   23                          0.00

                          Total:        105                        391.54




                                       31
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

A beneficiary survey was not carried out.




                                            32
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A stakeholder workshop was not held for Phase I.




                                            33
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR




       HRVATSKE VODE
       Coastal Cities Control Pollution Program




                                     Coastal Cities Control Pollution Project 1

                  Borrower's Evaluation Report Summary


                                                             November 2009




                                      34
I)      Assessment of the Program and Project Objectives, Scope, Implementation and Operation
        Experience

Program objectives
The Adriatic coast is one of the most important "resources" of Republic of Croatia, which generates
considerable portion of national income. Except for a few isolated spots, the environment is still
capable to mitigate the negative impact of economic activities. However, the more frequent repetition
of "natural" incidents like flourishing of the see indicates that system is becoming more sensitive, easy
to be pushed out of balance and probably very close to the edge of its receiving capacity.

On the other hand, the development of the region rely upon the fact that the Adriatic coast is and will
be healthy environment for living and relaxation and assumes intensification of economical activities
especially tourism, shipyards and fishery. The investment in expansion of touristic capacities will
surely be followed with development of transportation, agriculture and trading, as well as with
intensifying of real estate investments.

The basic objectives of the Program are:
          ¨ first to preserve and to protect the existing environment before the permanent damage
              to the quality of environment can be done,
          ¨ second to provide the basis for safe and environmentally acceptable economy
              development, and
          ¨ third to improve the existing quality of the environment.
          ¨
In order to achieve these goals this Program will give technical and financial support to all activities
streamed into improvement of efficiency of water quality protection and water pollution control sector
such as:
            f construction of the wastewater collection and treatment facilities,
            f regulatory and institutional strengthening
            f development of monitoring
            f promoting active public involvement
            f mobilizing joint technical, professional and financial resources on a local and national
                 level.

In general, the Program is of a long-term nature, and first ten/fifteen years activities that will be
supported by the World Bank should be used as beginning of the long-term commitment to
continuous, well planed, self supported, socially and economically acceptable investment into
environment protection.

Program scope
The Program activities are systematized into 3 general groups:
           ¨ Investment into improvement of the wastewater collection and treatment facilities
           ¨ Investments into improvement of regulatory and institutional framework of the sector,
               and
           ¨ Investment into improvement of communal services efficiency.
Due to limited financial possibilities of the area that are available for this purpose, it is necessary to
identify, mobilize and channel all possible sources of financing towards the Program:
           TM available funds of the Republic of Croatia (National Budget, Islands Development Fund,
               funds of Hrvatske vode for water protection, etc.)
           TM corresponding EU funds,
           TM international financial institutions,
           TM private sector.
The remaining part of the funds has been financed by the proceeds of IBRD loan, which would be
repaid by final beneficiaries of the loan.

                                                   35
         TM municipal companies, through water tariff
         TM Hrvatske vode, from water protection charge.

Implementation of the Program is planned in three stages, and the first stage of the Program has been
implemented in the period of five years (from 2005 to 2009). The total estimated cost of realization of
the Program is ca 280 million, and the value of the first stage is ca 80 million.

The Loan Agreement for the implementation of Phase I of the Program was signed with the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in Zadar on July 2, 2004, in the amount of
40 million, which, together with the local funds (State Budget, local authorities and Hrvatske vode)
makes the total amount of 80 million.

The possibility of ensuring funds for the implementation of Phases II and III of the Program was also
arranged (Phase II: 60+60= 120 million, Phase III: 40+40=          80 million) upon fulfilling of two
conditions: contracting of 80% of the total amount and disbursement of 40% funds of the loan for the
previous phase.

Consistent with the scope and objectives identified above, the Program has three components:
  I. Coastal Environmental Infrastructure component to be financed according to the following
      principles:
               - The wastewater treatment and discharge systems
               - Sewerage and like infrastructure
 II. Institutional Strengthening and Program Management Component to finance equipment,
      technical assistance, training and studies to:
               - Devise and implement an institutional framework for water pollution control;
               - Complete engineering designs and environmental and social assessments for
                   investments after the Phase I of the Program and supervise Project investments;
               - Ensure the capacity of the PIU for Project implementation, evaluation and
                   monitoring, including financial management;
 III. Strengthening of the Coastal Waters Monitoring Network to finance equipment, civil works and
      technical assistance to:
               - Improve the capacity of the Ministry of Environment network of laboratories for
                   environmental monitoring to assess the impact of the Program on coastal waters
                   quality;
               - Improve the capacity of laboratories of Hrvatske vode to assess the individual
                   discharges of municipalities and industries, determine the overall pollutant load
                   contributed by Croatia to the Adriatic, and evaluate and control the efficiency of the
                   financed infrastructure;
               - Give the decision-makers a decisive and reliable tool for achieving concordance of
                   Croatian coastal waters quality monitoring with the relevant EU standards and
                   adaptation of the degree of wastewater treatment so as to achieve concordance
                   through target investments implemented in phases.

Phase I - Coastal Cities Control Pollution Project 1
         1.3.1 The objectives of the project implementation

One of the basic principles of the Project is that financing had been available to technical solutions
which are:
      ¨     technically rational
      ¨     socially and economically feasible and
      ¨     acceptable from the environmental standpoint.

Therefore, the Project favorites the technical solutions that allows gradual construction (in phases),
with regard to financial possibilities of the particular area or region.
The next, for Project implementation, very important principle is that the Project is of the regional
nature, balancing:

                                                   36
       ¨               the requirements and possibilities,
       ¨               priorities and potentials,
but also promoting the development of minor, less developed communities.

The guiding principles for evaluation of subprojects and determination whether they meet the criteria
from the subprojects included the following:
      ¨       Technical and environmental feasibility, least-cost and in compliance with environmental
          requirements of the proposed civil works and goods
      ¨ Decision on capital cost contribution (Financial analysis, taking into account all sources of
          financing, demonstrating whether the funds will be sufficient to cover the costs of
          construction, loan repayment, and depreciation)
      ¨ Procedures for O&M and tariff collection

Implementation of Phase I of the Project started in 2005. Eleven municipalities participated in the first
phase of the Coastal Cities Pollution Control Program, Phase 1. A total of 11 (eleven) Subsidiary
Loan Agreements and Subproject Agreements were signed (for 11 subprojects): Pula, Opatija, Rijeka,
Novigrad, Zadar, Biograd, Rogoznica, Omis, Dugi Rat, Makarska and Opuzen. This included some of
the largest municipalities, with the exception of Split.
In table no.1 total contracted values are presented for each component of the Project.

Table no. 1      Contracted values for each component of the Project

         PHASE I OF PROJECT
                                                                Domestic     IBRD
                                                                                         Total
                                                               component   component
         Components                                                                      mil
                                                                  mil        mil
                                                                                          (%)
                                                                  50%        50 %
                                o         Wastewater
         Component I:
                                    treatment plants
         Coastal
                                o         Submarine outfalls     34,3        34,3        68,6
         Environmental
                                o         Sewerage network                             85,75 %
         Infrastructure
                                    expansion
                                o         IT equipment
         Component II:
                                o         Studies for sector
         Institutional
                                    development and
         Strengthening and                                       2,11        2,11         4,22
                                    Project management
         Program                                                                         5,27 %
                                o         Final solutions
         Management
                                    and supervision services
         Component III:
                                o         MEPPPC (MOE)
         Strengthening of the
                                    laboratory                   3,59        3,59         7,18
         Coastal Waters
                                o         HV laboratory                                  8,98 %
         Monitoring Network

                                                    TOTAL        40,0        40,0        80,0
                                                                                       100,00 %

Necessary funds are ensured from loans and current revenues in the ratio of 50%-50%.

During construction, the funds from current revenues are ensured from:

          State Budget - 22%
          Hrvatske vode - 9% and
          Final beneficiary/municipalities - 19%.

Component I
Following Environmental Infrastructure were financed with the funds from Component I:
    · Zadar (100.000 PE) ­ waste water treatment plant and submarine outfall
    · Biograd Rivijera (32.000 PE) - waste water treatment plant, submarine outfall, pump stations
        and pressure-gravitational pipelines



                                                        37
    ·   Rogoznica - pump stations and pressure-gravitational pipelines
    ·   Dugi Rat - pump stations and pressure-gravitational pipelines
    ·   Omis (30.000 PE) - waste water treatment plant, submarine outfall, pump stations and
        pressure-gravitational pipelines
    ·   Makarska (50.000 PE) - pump stations and pressure-gravitational pipelines
    ·   Opuzen (9.000 PE) - waste water treatment plant and gravitational pipelines
    ·   Rijeka - pressure-gravitational pipelines
    ·   Opatija (58.000 PE) - waste water treatment plant, pump stations and pressure-gravitational
        pipelines
    ·   Novigrad (33.000 PE) - waste water treatment plant, submarine outfall, pump stations and
        pressure-gravitational pipelines
    ·   Pula (100.000 PE) - reconstruction of the waste water treatment plant, pump stations and
        pressure-gravitational pipelines

Component II
Institutional Strengthening and Program Management Component was implemented through two
categories :

    o   Goods: purchasing the IT equipment and special vehicles for sewerage maintains
    o   Consultant services: technical assistance, training and studies to:
           · Devise and implement an institutional framework for water pollution control;
           · Complete engineering designs and environmental and social assessments
           · Ensure the capacity of the PIU for Project implementation, evaluation and monitoring,
               including financial management;

The objective of the Study for the Institutional strengthening of HVJP is to strengthen the Special
Purpose Subsidiary Company. The Consultant developed a framework and strategy for strengthening
the SPSC (HVJP), in line with the goals of the Project and recommended follow-up action to carry
through the reforms, and define the support necessary to transform the SPSC into effective and
efficient organization.

The objective of the Study for the Institutional strengthening of utility companies is to strengthen Water
Supply & Wastewater Utility Enterprises in the following municipalities: Biograd, Novigrad, Omis,
Opatija, Opuzen, Pula, Rijeka, Rogoznica, Zadar. These Utility Enterprises are hereinafter referred to
as "the target Enterprises".

Component III
Monitoring system is in place and functional. Objective of the Project is to determine the Impact of the
project on the quality of the Adriatic Sea, and thus the achievement of the overall Program objective of
improving the quality of the seawater.

Dutch Grant Funds
In mid January 2006, the Ministry of Finance and the Kingdom of the Netherlands signed a Grant
Agreement for a grant awarded to the Costal Cities Water Pollution Control Project through the World
Bank for the purposes of financing the preparation of studies within the preparation of Phase II of the
Project, institutional strengthening of HVJP d.o.o., institutional strengthening of utility companies, and
procurement of equipment for the utility companies.

In respect of the overall Project Development objectives which are;

    ¾   to improve the quality of Croatia's Adriatic coastal waters to meet aplicable standards in the
        participating municipalities, in a financially and operationally sustainable manner,
    ¾   to provide technical assistance and financing for engineering services,
    ¾   improvements in the environmental monitoring system for the assessments of Project results,
        and


                                                   38
    ¾   support of Project implementation

the Dutch Grant Funds has provided the sufficient financial frame to meet the key financial triggers
required for the Second Phase of the Program, by using the Funds to prepare projects for the Phase II
and support the institutional strengthening of Hrvatske vode Jadranski Projekt d.o.o. and the MWSCs
involved in Phase I.

Following up the Procurement plan established for the Dutch Grant Fund 100% of the funds have
been committed, out of which app. 100% has been disbursed (2.461.645,00$).

       1.3.2 Assessment of the outcomes of the Project against the agreed objectives
From the beginning of June 2005, after the signing of the first Subsidiary Loan Agreements and Direct
Agreements for the first subproject, and after the implementation plans were adopted and approved by
the World Bank, and up to November 30, 2009, a total of 158 public bidding procedures were
prepared and completed, on the basis of which 158 contracts were signed.

All public tenders were completed for objects with valid project documents and valid construction
permits, except for submarine outfalls and wastewater treatment plants, whose tenders also included
the development of design. Such tenders were advertised based on valid location permits, and
obtaining of the construction permits shall follow after the development of the main designs by the
Contractors, which are all regulated by the contract documents.

Even though Project implementation in 2008 (November 2008 was current) was in full momentum,
withdrawal of all contracted and planned funds by the deadline defined in the Agreement, i.e.
November 30, 2008 (original closing date), was questionable. This is due to:
        - the loan became effective 7 months upon signing,
        - sub loaning started 4 months after efficiency (11 months after loan signing),
        - delayed commencement of works, mainly due to delays in obtaining Construction Permits
           and solving property-rights relations (expecialy rights of servitude and to processes of
           expropriating plots owned by the Republic of Croatia),
        - an additional aggravating circumstance is the cessation of works in the summer months
           due to the tourist season.
In June, 2008, the request for an extension of the Loan closing date was forwarded to the World Bank.
Request is approved and the loan was extended until November 30, 2009.

Having in mind that June, July and August of 2005 were spent in preparation, development and
approval of the first bidding documents (according to the strict procedure of the World Bank), and that
the first public tenders were advertised in the last week of August, it is easy to calculate that, on
average, one public tender has been advertised every five days. Since the same employees (a total of
7 employees of Hrvatske vode) worked on the evaluation of submitted bids, development of required
reports, and the preparation and development of the Contract documents, the achieved results of
Project implementation in the segment of realization of the procurement plan are more than
satisfactory.

By November 2009 in the construction of infrastructure facilities have been invested 86% of available
funds. These funds are invested in the construction of a total of around 170 km of sewage collectors
associated with 40 pumping stations and the construction of 3 submarine outfall and 7 wastewater
treatment plants.

By November 2009, the commissioning of 75% of constructed facilities was carried out, since when
the Investors have been taking care of its operation and maintains. The commissioning of the
remaining 25 % is expected upon final calculations and obtaining operation permits, expected by end
of the March.

The objectives of the Project, which can be measured on the basis of agreed indicators: percentage of
households in participating cities able to connect to wastewater services; percentage of wastewater


                                                  39
collected that is treated as per applicable legislation are being attained. Furthermore, the existing
sewage network and treatments plants were improved and the new ones were built, which upgraded
the safety and reliability of the collecting and treatment of waste water in the area.

Indirect Project effects are also visible because reliable waste water collection and wastewater
disposal systems create preconditions for the development of tourism as one of the most significant
sectors of the Croatian economy.

Under the Project a Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) has been provided (giving the
decision-makers a decisive and reliable tool for achieving concordance of Croatian coastal waters
quality monitoring with the relevant EU standards and adaptation of the degree of wastewater
treatment so as to achieve concordance through target investments implemented in phases, which is
under the competence of Hrvatske vode). SEA also deals with regional cumulative effects. Based on
the results of the presented calculation it can be concluded that, in all analyzed areas where there is a
significant load in the aquatorium in terms of a large number of public sewerage systems with
accompanying submarine outfalls, the required criteria was met (Guidelines for submarine outfall
structures for Mediterranean small and medium-sized coastal communities, UNEP, Athens, 1995). The
Study has to be updated with assessment and interpretation of cumulative effect of the outfalls to be
built under entire APL.

Under the Project, HV commissioned a Sea sensitivity study to determine the areas of sea sensitivity
(giving the decision-makers a decisive and reliable tool for achieving concordance of Croatian coastal
waters quality monitoring with the relevant EU standards and adaptation of the degree of wastewater
treatment so as to achieve concordance through target investments implemented in phases, which is
under the competence of Hrvatske vode). Considering the pace of implementation of the Adriatic
Program, and since substantial investments in development of sewer utility systems and wastewater
processing are expected, it became necessary to propose a list of protected areas where more
intensive protective measures would be implemented before the final plans and codes are approved.
Therefore the preliminary proposal of protected areas summarizes new protection requirements
conforming to EU water related legislation with national legislation which still applies, and therefore
determines construction practice in the field of water protection. Thus it shall be ensured that design
solutions are technically applicable (requirements and permits) and environmentally acceptable. Since
protected areas are preliminary determined on the basis of EU water management requirements and
available data, it may be concluded that this proposal shall largely be completely harmonized with
Registry of protected areas which should be in effect in 2010.

Sea Water Monitoring System
Two projects were financed with the funds from Component III: Strengthening of the coastal waters
monitoring network:
   1. Strengthening of the coastal waters monitoring network - The Adriatic Sea Monitoring
        Program; and

    2.   Monitoring system of the laboratories of Hrvatske vode, authorized laboratories and municipal
         water and sewerage companies (MWCS)

This was in line with the project's main objectives:
    1. To protect the Adriatic Sea against pollution by urban wastewater; and

    2. To assist in harmonization, i.e. approximation to the requirements and standards of the
       European Union.

The Water Framework Directive (WFD), transposed in its entirety into Croatian legislation, highlights
particularly in its regulatory part the need for establishing complex and comprehensive monitoring of
waters (inland surface water, transitional and coastal water, and groundwater). The establishment of
appropriate monitoring of coastal waters in the Republic of Croatia is additionally complicated by a
very indented coastline and developed "archipelago", so that the selection of representative monitoring



                                                   40
stations according to the Water Framework Directive requires good knowledge of the sea's
hydrographic characteristics.

According to the observed status, monitoring of the characteristics of the marine environment in
Croatia is within the competence of different state administration bodies. For example:

    1.   Monitoring of beach water quality (bathing water quality) is within the competence of the
         Ministry of Environmental Protection, Physical Planning and Construction (MEPPPC), and it is
         conducted by the licensed laboratories of County Public Health Institutes;

    2.   Monitoring of the sea within the Project Adria (Projekt Jadran) is within the competence of the
         Ministry of Science, and it is conducted by the Institute of Oceanography and Fisheries, Split
         and Ru er Boskovi Institute, the Centre for Marine Research, Rovinj at the level of annual
         projects;

    3.   Monitoring of the sea within the Vir-Konavle Project, which was extended to the island of Pag
         in 2006, is within the competence of Hrvatske vode and is conducted by the Institute of
         Oceanography and Fisheries, Split;

    4.   Monitoring of land-based pollution of the sea is within the competence of "polluters" in
         accordance with water rights permits for the discharge of treated wastewater, and is
         conducted by contracted laboratories.

Each of the above operates under a special monitoring program, and some of the results might also
be used for reporting under the WFD. However, such program is usually either limited in area (e.g. the
Pag-Konavle Project covers only the southern part of the Adriatic) or insufficient (e.g. monitoring of
beach water quality).

Through implementation of Phase 1 of the Coastal Cities Pollution Control Project (CCPCP) two
monitoring projects were implemented whose concepts correspond to the requirements of the WFD
both in terms of the coverage (the Adriatic Sea) and the program:
Research and analyses carried out within the project "Strengthening of the Coastal Waters Monitoring
Network - The Adriatic Sea Monitoring Program" form the basis for the establishment of surveillance
monitoring, i.e. monitoring of the status of the coastal waters, and serve as a descriptor for the
assessment of the ecological status. A condition for establishing a proper sea monitoring system
implies good knowledge of hydrogeographic characteristics (currents, waves, temperature, salinity,
etc.), on the basis of which sections of the sea with "homogenous" characteristics are delineated ("the
water body"), at which a monitoring location is established and a regular monitoring program is
defined. Data on the qualitative status of the sea on that location is regularly submitted to the agencies
of the European Commission and is used for assessing the general and/or ecological status of the
coastal sea. Since there is no systematic research available to cover the Adriatic Sea as a whole
(models for only individual smaller parts at the level of the general status of the coastal sea my be
regarded only as a point), the presented research and analyses are a high-quality step forward
towards the establishment of high-quality, systematic and long-term monitoring on the basis of which
the Republic of Croatia will officially report to the European Union on the status of the sea.

Another project implemented within the CCPCP - Monitoring system of the laboratories of Hrvatske
vode, authorized laboratories and municipal water and sewerage companies (MWCS) - is also related
to the monitoring to be performed according to the requirements of the WFD, i.e. operational
monitoring. The type, number of indicators and frequency of sampling at monitoring stations under this
monitoring differ significantly from surveillance monitoring, and it should illustrate changes in the
quality of a water body resulting from the application of some of the water management measures or
activities. The beginning of this monitoring is related to the area ("water body or its part") for which it
has been identified that it is under a significant impact of human activities, due to which its status is
already poor, or there is a downgrading potential. In other words, this project has established the
monitoring of locations for which it was identified that in Phase 1 of the CCPCP outfalls of treated
wastewater would be constructed, thus forming a high-quality basis for identifying the effects of actions
taken (the task of operational monitoring).

                                                    41
Both projects have fulfilled the set tasks: they have provided a large amount of data which will be
entered into databases about the quality of coastal waters within the Water Information System, and
they have provided interpretation of results related both to the regulatory framework in force and to EU
standards, with recommendations for further activities.
Bringing the monitoring system to the level of compliance with the requirements of EU legislation
requires a certain period of adjustment, in particular in relation to the available financial and
professional capacities and particularly under conditions when competencies for conducting coastal
waters monitoring are still not fully regulated. Consequently, the assistance provided during that
process by the CCPCP, which through its Component III finances projects within which at the moment
appropriate sea quality monitoring activities are conducted on the basis of both of the above
monitoring aspects, is extremely significant, and it should definitely continue in Phase 2 of the CCPCP,
supplemented on the basis of the recommendations obtained from the two monitoring projects.

        1.3.3 Assessment of the Project Implementation and Operation                       experience

Water protection projects are very complex and demanding. The majority of problems in the
implementation of Project relate to long duration of procedure for obtaining construction permits.

Ownership and legal issues have significantly slowed down the procedure for obtaining construction
permits. For Project and for all other significant construction projects, obtaining of construction land
has to be regulated first through complete and incomplete expropriation, all pursuant to the
Expropriation Act. Taking into account that cadastre records and lands registry are not updated status,
the expropriation seems to be an extensive and time consuming procedure.

The changes in legal regulations proposed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial
Planning and Construction have contributed to resolving of the mentioned problems and to the
reduction of procedure for obtaining construction permits.

Organization
Even though all planned activities related to Project implementation, i.e. advertising of public tenders
and signing of contracts with the selected bidders, were performed within the sub-projects which
fulfilled all the conditions, and along with the extraordinary efforts and dedication of the employees of
Hrvatske vode assigned to the tasks of Project implementation, and the employees of the Investors ­
utility companies and appointed representatives of local authorities status of Project implementation
were not always in accordance with the desired timetables, neither in the sense of implementation of
the procurement plan nor in the segment of the financial realization of the Project, i.e. fulfilment of the
plan of fund withdrawal.

One of the reasons for the delays in implementation of the planned activities was the insufficient
number of staff working on the Project, as well as the unresolved relations in the domain of authority
for Project implementation on the level of sectoral ministries of the Republic of Croatia, despite the
relations clearly defined in the document preceding Project approval.

The Project has been implemented by 13 employees, out of which 9 civil engineers, 1 lawyer, 2
economists and 1 administrative employee.

Generally speaking, work on the Project is unattractive for most employees, since it is not adequately
stimulated. Employees rather choose other responsibilities with the same salary, but with less
obligations, temporally limited tasks and responsibilities.

The organizational scheme of Project implementation did not produce the expected effects. Since
2008 the Project team was not systematized in one organizational unit, but five of them (Department of
Water Protection, Office for Economic and Financial Affairs, Office for Legal and Personnel Affairs,
Water Protection Division at WMD Split, and Water Protection Division at WMD Rijeka). Some of the
employees performed other tasks in their parent departments, according to the priorities determined



                                                    42
by the heads of those departments. In 2008 Project team was systematized in one Implementation
unit.

Withdrawal of funds of Hrvatske vode and funds from the State Budget
The Loan Agreement with the World Bank defines the method of withdrawal of funds which, in general,
corresponds to the method of advance payment. The amount withdrawn (the limit is 2.5 million) is
then justified by valid bookkeeping documentation. If the withdrawals are justified, the agency is then
qualified for a new withdrawal of Loan proceeds.

The same methodology was arranged with Hrvatske vode for withdrawal of funds of Hrvatske vode
and the State Budget, with the limit of HRK 2 million (Implementation Agreement for the Coastal Cities
Water Pollution Control Project dated June 20, 2005), but this is not being implemented.

The purpose of this methodology is to avoid prior review of valid documents by all co-financiers (it is
performed by the investor - utility company - and the implementing agency - HVJP); and post review is
performed by all co-financiers. The process of payment is quicker, and potential faults can be rectified
(after complaints by the co-financiers) in the subsequent tranches. The arranged procedures are not
adhered to on any level.

Due to the lack of the government part in 2009 for financing the project Loan agreement was changed
in July 2009. Government applied for increasement of the % of Bank financing on all expenditure
categories from 50% to up to 72% however the total loan about will remain at Euro 40 million. Original
scope of the loan would remain, and the Government will caver the remaining full cost of the project
value.

,, (YDOXDWLRQ RI WKH SHUIRUPDQFH E\ WKH %DQN RU RWKHU SDUWQHUV GXULQJ WKH
HYROXWLRQ DQG LPSOHPHQWDWLRQ RI WKH 3URMHFW UHODWLRQVKLSV

During the preparation and implementation of the Project we received the full support, understanding
and co-operation by the Bank. All problems that occurred during the implementation of the Project
were resolved jointly, and the support of the Bank was always prompt and extremely kind. The Bank's
team was changed when the Project was already in the advanced stage of readiness. However, this
change did not have any influence on the continuity of the Project implementation, but contributed to
an even better understanding of the situation in which the Project team was. The Bank's team has
established a very good co-operation with HV and HVJP and the missions were always a good chance
for additional advices and professional support. During the procurement process, withdrawal and
disbursement of the loan, all enquiries and demands were met in time by the Bank.




                                                  43
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None.




                                       44
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


·   Country Assistance Strategy for Croatia, 2001
·   Country Partnership Strategy for Croatia for FY09-12
·   Project Information Document
·   Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 27759-HR
·   Loan Agreement
·   Feasibility studies and Consultants reports (Various)
·   Environmental Management Plan Framework
·   Financial Management Supervision Reports
·   Investment Plans (Various)
·   Project Management and Audit Reports (Various)
·   Aide memoires
·   Implementation Status Reports
·   Annual Benchmarking Project Reports
·   Monthly and Quarterly Project Progress Reports




                                             45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 32862

                                  AUSTRIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CROATIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HUNGARY                                                               COASTAL CITIES POLLUTION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Danub
                                                                                                                                             MEDIMURSKA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONTROL PROJECT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         e
                                                                                                                                Varazdin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN PHASE I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R.
                                                                                                                                     VARAZDINSKA
                                                                               Sava                                                              Koprivnica
ITALY                                                                                 Riv
                                                                                          e   r                     KRAPINSKO-                     KOPRIVNICKO-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SUB-PROJECTS IDENTIFIED FOR THE
                                                                                                                    ZAGORSKA                        KRIZEVACKA
                                         Ljubljana                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FIRST YEAR OF APL PHASE I

                                                 SLOVENIA                                                                                                    Bjelovar                                                                                                                                                        OTHER SUB-PROJECTS CONSIDERED FOR APL PHASE I
                                                                                                                         ZAGREB            ZAGREBACKA                                                      Dr av a Ri ve r                                                                                                   OTHER POTENTIAL SUB-PROJECTS WITH COMPLETED
                                                                                                                                                                                             VIROVITICKO-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SERBIA                                                      LEAST-COST ANALYSIS
                                                                                                  ZAGREBACKA                        V. Gorica                   BJELOVARSKO-                  PODRAVSKA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AND
                                                                                                                           GRAND
                                                                                                                                                                 BILOGORSKA                                                                                                                                                  OTHER POTENTIAL SUB-PROJECTS FOR
                                                                                                                           ZAGREB                                                                                                OSJECKO-BARANJSKA                                                                            APL PHASES II-III
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MONT.
                                                                                                                 a                                                                                                                      Osijek
                                                                                                                           R.
                                                                                         Karlovac             Kup                                                                                                                                                                                                            MAJOR TOWNS
                                                      PRIMORSKO-                                                                                 Sisak                                                                                                                                                                       NATIONAL CAPITALS
                                                      GORANSKA
                                     Opatija     Rijeka                                                                                                                                         POZESKO-SLAVONSKA                               Vukovar
                                                                                                                                SISACKO-MOSLAVACKA                                                                                                                                                                           RIVERS
   Novigrad
                                                        Kostrena                                                                                               Novska                                                                      Vinkovci
         
     Porec-Sjever    ISTARSKA                Rijeka        Kraljevica                                                                                                             N.Gradisk                 N.                                                                                                               SELECTED MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
                           ´ 
                        Moscenicka Draga                    Jadranovo
             
        Porec-Jug                                      
                                                  Omisalj Crikvenica                                                                                                               BRODSKO-POSAVSKA       Kapela        Slav Brod
                                        
                                    Brsec                                                                                                                                                                                                           VUKOVARSKO-                                                              DISTRICT OR COUNTY BOUNDARIES
                                Plomin         Malinska-          Selce Novi VinodolskiKARLOVACKA                                                                                                                                                    SRIJEMSKA
    Rovinj-Sjever                               Njivice Dobrinj                                                                                                                                      Sa
                                Rabac                                                                                                                                                                     va
      Rovinj-Jug
                                                            Vrbnik                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                           Brgod Sveta Marina        Krk Klenovica                                                                                                                                             R.
                           Tunerica Ravni Cres                              Senj
             Pula-Sjever
                              Koromacno                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0                                50                                   100                           150
           Brijuni                        Valun                             Sveti Juraj
               Pula        Medulin                                 Volarice
                                                                          Stari Grad                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KILOMETERS
                   Banjole               Martinscica Supetarska
                                                                  Rab Jablanac
                                                        Draga
                                                 Osor               Stinica             LICKO-SENJSKA                                                                                                                                                                                              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                       Nerezine     Punta     Lun                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
                                   Unije            Kriza                    Prizna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                              Vele Srakane      Cunski         Novalja          Cesarica
                              Male Srakane                  
                                                    Mali Losinj                   Karlobag                                                                                                                                                                                                         judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                            
                                                     Veli Losinj        Metajna Vidovac Cesaricki                                                                                                                                                                                                  acceptance of such boundaries.
                                     Susak
                                                                                          Lukovo Sugarje
                                                Ilovik                           Pag          Baric Draga
                                                                                               Tribanj
                                                                               Povljana             Starigrad Zadarski
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SWEDEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     20°                                         30°
                                                              Silba-Olib                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RUSSIAN
                                                                             Vir
                                                                                             Razanac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LATVIA
                                                                                          Nin    Posedarje     Obrovac                                                                          BOSNIA AND                                                                                                                                                                                                FEDERATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DENMARK
                                                                             Ugljan     Zadar         Novigrad                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Baltic
                                                                                  Preko       Zadar   Zadarski
                                                                                                              ZADARSKO-                                                                       HERZEGOVINA                                                                                                                                                            LITHUANIA
                                                                                             Sukosan                                 Knin                                                                                                                                                                                                Sea
                                                                    Bozava         Kali                        KNINSKA
                                                                                    Kukljica                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RUSSIAN
                                                                                     Zdrelac                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FED.
                                                                                                  Biograd
                                                                             Sali        Pasman                                                                                                                                     Sarajevo
                                                                                               Tkon       Pirovac-                            Vrlika                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BELARUS
                                                                                                           Tisno-
                                                                                                           Jezera       Skradin                                                                                                                                              NETH.
                                                                                       Betina-                  Vodice
                                                                                       Murter                Prvic        Sibenik                                                                                                                                                                                                              POLAND
                                                                                                      Kaprije-
                                                                                                       Zirje     Zlarin
                                                                                                                           Grebastica                                                                                                                                      BELG.            GERMANY
                                                                                                 SIBENSKA
                                                                                                                   Primosten         Kastela-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50°
                                                                                                                                      Trogir
                                  Adriatic                          Sea                                            Rogoznica
                                                                                                                                 Marina
                                                                                                                                                  Split
                                                                                                                                                         Podstrana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LUX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CZECH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               UKRAINE

                                                                                                                                                                  Omis                                                                                                                                                     R E P.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FRANCE
                                                                                                                                Maslenica
                                                                                                                                    Necujam Sutivan      Postira              Baska Voda                                                                                                                                                         SLOVAK REP.
                                                                                                                                      Stomorska   Supetar           Povlja
                                                                                                                                                            Pucisca             Makarska                                                                                                    LIECHTENSTEIN
                                                                                                                                                Milna
                                                                                                                                                                    Sumartin       Tucepi                                                                                                                                                                                                          MOLDOVA
                                                                                                                                                           Bol                        Drasnice                                                                                                                     AUSTRIA
                                                                                                                                                           Jelsa-               Igrane Zivogosce                                                                             SWITZERLAND
                                                                                                                                                 Hvar Starigrad                      Drvenik Zaostrog                                                                                                                                       HUNGARY
                                                                                                                                                                      Sucaraj      Brist-Podaca Gradac       Komin
                                                                                                                         SPLITSKO-DALMATINSKA
                                                                                                          Sveti                                                                                  Ploce                                                                                                           SLOVENIA
                                                                                                         Andrija            Komiza                                            
                                                                                                                                                                          Loviste          Ploce               Metkovic ´
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CROATIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ROMANIA
                                                                                                                                                                                  Orebic Trpanj Opuzen                                                     SERBIA
                                                                                                                                                       Vela                       
                                                                                                                                                                              Korcula
                                                                                                                                                                  Blato
                                                                                                                                                       Luka             Smokvica-      Lumbarda Janjina
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ston
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AND                                                                     BOSNIA AND
                                                                                                                                                                           Brna                                                                                                                                                     HERZEGOVINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                         (Malostonski)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MONTENEGRO                                 SAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MARINO                                                                                                     Black




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Slano                                                                                                                           SERBIA AND
                                                                                                                                                      Susac




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Trsteno
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mljet                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sea




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Zaton                                                                                                               MONTENEGRO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ti
                                                                                                                                                                                    DUBROVACKO-                   Lopud-Sipan                                                                                                                                                       BULGARIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          c
                                                                                                                                                                     Lastovo                                                              Zupa                                                                                Se
                                                                                                                                                                                    NERETVANSKA                      Kolocep                   
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Dubrovacka                                                      I TA LY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dubrovnik
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FYR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Cavtat                                                                                                                 MACEDONIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Tyrrhenian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ALBANIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            40°               Sea                                                                                                                    40°
                                                                                                                                             Palagruza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GREECE               Aegean
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TURKEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sea


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10°                                                               20°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FEBRUARY 2004
