Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16431
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3600-POL)
April 2, 1997
Agriculture and Regional Development Operations Division
Central and Southeastern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Exchange Rates
1990         1991          1992         1993          1994         1995          1996
US$/zloty       1.052         0.909        0.632         0.469        0.409         0.404        0.349
zloty/US$        0.95         1.10          1.58         2.13          2.44         2.47          2.86
a on January 01, 1995 the zloty was redenominated: 10,000 old zloties = I new zloty (PNL)
Fiscal Year
January I - December 31
Acronyms
APA                      Agricultural Property Agency (Polish acronym AWRSP)
ARMA                     Agency for Reconstruction and Modernization of Agriculture
ARR                      Agricultural Marketing Agency (Polish acronym)
ASAL                     Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
ASAP                     Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (office)
BGZ                      Bank for Food Economy (Polish acronym)
CAP                      Common Agricultural Policy
CCC                      Commodity Credit Corporation
CEE/FSU                  Central & Eastern Europe/Former Soviet Union
CEEC                     Central European Economic Community
CESW                     Country Economic Sector Work
CMEA                     Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
ETP                      Economic Transformation Program
EU-PHARE                 Technical assistance arm of the EU for Central Europe
EFSAL                    Enterprise & Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FAPA                     Foundation of Assistance Programmes for Agriculture
FIBOR                    Frankfurt InterBank Offer Rate
GATT                     General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
MAFE                     Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy
MoF                      Ministry of Finance
MoP                      Ministry of Privatization
MTSAP                    Medium Term Sector Adjustment Program
ODA                      Overseas Development Administration (UK Government)
ODR                      Agricultural Extension Center (Polish acronym)
OECD                     Organization for Economic Cooperation & Development
PGR                      State Farm (Polish aronym)
PPP                      Purchasing Power Parity
PSD                      Private Sector Development
PZZ                      Former Cereal Monopoly (Polish acronym)
RDF                      Rural Development Fund
SAEPR                    Policy Analysis Unit (in MAFE - Polish acronym)
SOE                      State Owned Enterprise
WB                       World Bank
WDR                      World Development Report
WTO                      World Trade Organization
Vice President                     Johannes Linn
Acting Director                    Hans Apitz
Division Chief/Manager             Michele de Nevers
Task Manager                       Richard Lacroix



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3600-POL)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ......v
Evaluation Summary.vi
PART I. BANK...
1 - Project Objectives.11
2 - Achievement of Project Objectives .1
i - Agricultural Price, Subsidy and Trade Policy Framework .11
ii. - SOE Privatization & The Enabling Environment                       .12
iii - Land Policies.13
iv - Rural Development.                                                                            15
v -Reorganization of the Ministry ofAgriculture                        .16
vi -Agricultural Education, Research and Extension                       .16
vii - Public Investments .......................................................................1............................. 16
3 - Implementation Record and Major Factors that Have Affected the Project .16
4 - Project Sustainability .17
5 - Bank Performance.18
6 - Borrower Performance .18
7 - Assessment of Outcome                                         .19
8 - Future Operation.19
9 - Key Lessons Learned.19
PART II. BORROWER.23
I.  INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................... 23
11.   ASAL-300  BACKGROUND  .......................23..........................          ............. ......... 23
III. EVALUATION OF ACCOMPLISHMENT OF ASAL OBJECTIVES ............................................................... 24
IV. ASAL DISBURSEMENTS ...................................2.................................. ....................... ... 25
V. MEDIUM TERM SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAMME ........................................................................ ... 26
A. Agricultural Price, Subsidy & Trade Policy Framework .                                          26
B. Privatisation & Restructuring of the Agricultural Marketing & Processing Sector .27
C. Land Policy & Development of the Private Farmland Market .29
D. Institutional Framework for the Development of the Rural Market Economy .32
E. Reform ofAgricultural Education, Research & Extension .33
F. Public Investment Programme for Agriculture .34
G. Reorganisation of the Ministry ofAgriculture & Related Agencies .35
VI.    ASSESSMENT  OF  THE  LOAN  .................................................... ................................................................ 36
VII. ASSESSMENT OF THE WORLD BANK'S PERFORMANCE .                       ...................................................................... 38
VIII. ASSESSMENT OF THE BORROWER ............................................................................................................ 39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



-iv-
fart3 (Annexes)
1. Poland at a Glance
2. Poland: Evolution of Agroincentives Policies
3. Summary of Assessments
4. Related Bank Credits
5. Project Timetable
6. Loan Disbursement: Estimated and Actual
7. Key Indicators for project Implementation
8. Project Financing
9. Studies Included in the Project
10. Status of Legal Covenants in Loan Agreement
11. Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
12. Use of Bank Resources
13. ARMA's Program of Rural Infrastructure



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3600-POL)
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Adjustment Loan for the Polish
agriculture sector, approved in the amount of US$300 million equivalent on May 4, 1993 and made
effective on September 29, 1993. The loan consisted of two equal tranches of US$100 million each and
another US$100 million set aside under the Debt and Debt Service Reduction (DDSR) program for
Poland. The latter included Loan 3804-POL of US$170 million, a total of US$230 million from, resp. the
ASAL program, an EFSAL and a Financial Institutions Development Loan, and a limited waiver of
negative pledge clauses in several loan and guarantee agreements.
2.    The loan was closed on March 31, 1996; its originally planned closing date was December 31,
1994. The funds, both for the ASAL program and the set-aside for the DDSR operation were fully
disbursed. Substantial parallel financing for a comprehensive program of technical assistance was
obtained from a number of bilateral sources.
3.    The ASAL and the Medium Term Sector Adjustment Program of government that it supported
were the outcome of detailed strategic planning for the Polish agriculture sector developed under Bank
auspices, jointly with the Polish government and the European Community, and reported upon in July of
1990.
4.    This ICR report was prepared by the Agriculture and Regional Development Operations
Division, Country Department II, Europe and Central Asia Region. Richard Lacroix was task manager,
while substantial and detailed preparatory work, including visits to Poland, has been done by Messrs.
Richard Burcroff and Anning Wei from AGRPW. The borrower's contribution is included verbatim as
part II, while detailed comments from all Polish institutions that participated in the program are reflected
in part I.
5.    Preparation of this ICR was started in April of 1996 and is based on all pertinent program
documentation on file, on the results of two preparatory missions to Poland, and on the comments
received from both, borrower's and Bank staff. This ICR does not evaluate the conditionality or results of
the DDSR operation, which can be found in its ICR, report no. 15671.






-vi-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN 3600-POL
Evaluation Summary
1.    The Poland ASAL operation had seven sets of objectives, operationalized with a total of 78
monitorable actions and 33 technical studies and projects. The operation was complex and, in part
because of that, lacked focus. The three other principal conclusions of this completion review are: (i)
there are discrepancies in the perception of objectives and impact of the operation between the borrower
and the Bank, (ii) although complex, the operation has nevertheless missed important aspects of the
agriculture sector that are key to its restructuring, indeed development and (iii) in spite of its
shortcomings, the overall rating of the program is satisfactory.
Expectations
2.    Probably from the outset, but definitely during implementation of the program, different
perceptions have developed about objectives and impact between the borrower and the Bank. Among
the most important are:
(i) The borrower regards the co-financing of rural infrastructure as the first objective of the
program, market oriented transformations as the second. The Bank sees an ASAL primarily as a
structural adjustment mechanism; the rural investment component as incidental.
(ii) The borrower sees the achievements with respect to prices, subsidies and trade policies relative
to the pre- 1989 situation and hence regards them as substantial. The Bank looks at achievements
in these areas during the period of project implementation and has, consequently, a more guarded
opinion.
(iii) The borrower contends that the extension of the project's closing date was due to the fact that
some conditions were impossible to complete within the time available. In fact, fulfilling of the
conditions concerned, one on privatization in the sugar industry, the other about an operational
audit of the agricultural marketing agency, has depended on administrative procedures. Delays
incurred are thus not the result of an inherent flaw in project design.
(iv) The borrower sees the Bank's emphasis on liberalization as a contributing factor to purported
recession in Polish agriculture. However, during the project's preparation and implementation the
Producer Subsidy Equivalent (PSE) triplicated, from 6%, in 1991, to 21%, in 1994. The Bank
would argue that the post transition recession was an inevitable outcome of the fundamental
changes brought about by the very transition, as seen in other economies that went through
similar changes and that, if anything, the Bank's emphasis on liberalization has not been strong
enough, witness the development of the PSE.
(v) From the Polish Government's viewpoint, the availability of counterpart funds from the ASAL to
finance a portion of local infrastructure investment programs was probably the signal financial



-vii-
benefit of the ASAL program. The need for import financing, seemingly paramount when the
ASAL was identified in 1991, had largely disappeared by the time it became effective in 1993.
Though not reflected explicitly in the design of the ASAL, the responsible and responsive use of
counterpart proceeds by the Polish government presented the Bank with a very creative way to
support an important and decentralized public sector initiative in rural areas, where almost the
entire investment requirement was for local cost financing.
Complexity and Lack of Focus
3.     The ASAL as conceived here was an instrument that combined balance of payments support,
policy advice, technical assistance and financing of rural infrastructure, while the conditions governing
the important policy advice were insufficiently specific. Achievements under the program's seven sets of
objectives can be summarized as follows:
4.     The Agricultural Price, Subsidy and Trade Policy Framework, as addressed under the ASAL,
and laid down in the policy matrix contained in the President's report, was focused on ARR (Polish
acronym for the government's agricultural trading company) as regards price policy. Trade policy was
addressed, again, in relation with ARR, this time in the form of a prohibition of budget allocations for
export subsidies, while there was a general condition related with import tariffs. Credit subsidies were
discussed during negotiations when it was agreed that they would be "gradually reduced and ultimately
eliminated, depending on macro-economic developments and success in reducing the rate of inflation". A
similar sentiment was contained in the policy letter from government that accompanied the ASAL. In
the event, government gradually adjusted the framework, using price support as the main instrument,
increasing the PSE (Producer Subsidy Equivalent) from 6% in 1991 to 21% in 1994, all the time obeying
the letter of the conditionalities, although not the spirit. The implied increase in support for agriculture
was largely offset, though, by a steadily increasing overvaluation of the exchange rate. Rather than
focusing conditionality on the operations of the policy implementing instrument, ARR, it would have
been preferable to have as a monitorable condition a cap on the PSE, or a maximum allowable yearly
increase.
5.    SOE Privatization & The Enabling Environment: A three part program to privatize all state-
owned agro-industries was initiated during the ASAL preparation period, and carried over through the
implementation period as part of the "core conditionality" of the loan. Program items consisted of: (i)
the break-up and divestiture by the Anti-Monopoly Office of Poland's 18 largest cereals milling and
storage SOEs (PZZ), (ii) adoption of three-year action programs for the privatization and restructuring of
SOEs in five major agro-industrial subsectors, and (iii) the articulation of a strategy to prepare unsold
SOEs for privatization and of policies to govern the supervision and management of enterprises still
operating under public ownership. The erstwhile cereals monopoly was broken up, although some of the
resulting enterprises remain to be sold, while several silos have been transferred to ARR, rather than
being privatized. Privatization in three of the remaining four subsectors was essentially completed,
while most of the sugar sector remains in public hands, albeit it with a strategy for privatization
embedded in a new law pertaining to the sector. Thus, performance under this part of the program is
mixed, having achieved less than originally intended. Creation of an enabling environment for agro-
industry has been satisfactory, witness the rapid and substantial development of private initiative in the
sector as well as in input supply and trade.
6.    Land Policies: Two important aspects of agricultural land policy were supported by the ASAL:
(a) formulation of a long-term land policy conducive to the development of markets for privately owned
farmland, and (b) the design and inception of programs to privatize and restructure Poland's state farm



-viii-
sector. Most of the comprehensive land market related conditionality was achieved, although some
aspects remain partially implemented. The situation with respect to the former state farm lands, though,
is less satisfactory. The Agricultural Property Agency of the State Treasury (APA), holding company of
all assets from the former state farms and charged with land privatization has been largely ineffective in
achieving its primary objectives. Of the 4.4 million ha. taken over by APA, less than 5 percent (0.2
million ha.) had been sold by early 1996. Most lands have been leased to private operators, in effect
privatizing production rather than ownership. The conditionality under the ASAL, though, allowed for
"leasing or sale to private farmers". Hence, again, the letter of the conditionality is not violated, although
it may be argued that the spirit is.
7.    Rural Development: The MTSAP contained a multi-part approach towards improving the
capacity of local governments to plan, promote and finance rural development programs and projects.
Government undertook to transfer most project selection decisions, implementation authority as well as
the main responsibility for project financing to Poland's rural gminas, with the subsidy element capped
at 40%. This was achieved. Two other elements of the novel approach towards rural development and
decentralization were to stimulate employment creation in non-farm activities, and prepare and
implement gmina development and land use plans. Much was done in this respect, but a full evaluation
of results remains to be made.
8.    The Agency for Reconstruction and Modernization of Agriculture (ARMA) was established, in
1994, within MAFE, as the vehicle to implement the rural development policy as agreed under the ASAL
and to channel its associated financial support, a total of the equivalent of US$ 250 million of budgetary
resources. In 1995 ARMA subsidized 968 projects, of which 683 for water supply, 176 for waste
disposal systems and 109 telephone related. Its ASAL derived funds will be fully disbursed in mid 1997.
Lacking an evaluation of this program, it is not possible to judge the economic merits of these
investments. The availability of counterpart funds from the ASAL to finance a portion of local infrastruc-
ture investment programs was probably the signal financial benefit of the ASAL program. Balance of
payments support had become increasingly moot during ASAL implementation as a result of the good
performance of the Polish economy.
9.    Reorganization of the Ministry ofAgriculture: This component aimed to adapt the organization
of the MAFE to the needs of a market economy. Its main achievements are the creation of an improved
capability in agricultural policy analysis and formulation, setting up agricultural price and market
information services, and establishing a strong capability to deal with rural development issues. A
condition of second tranche release was evidence of satisfactory implementation of the organizational
restructuring program for MAFE and related agencies.
10.   Agricultural Education, Research and Extension were to be restructured by adapting offerings
and programs to the needs of a market based agriculture. Education is currently being restructured at
both the secondary and higher levels, in the spirit as intended under the ASAL. The United States
Department of Agriculture undertook to revamp the extension service, broadening its area of activity
from purely technical advice to include business and managerial aspects of farm operation. The ASAL
program has had limited impact on research. Education, and extension have been revamped largely
independent from the ASAL. Indeed, restructuring in all three areas was started prior to the ASAL's
effectiveness. Eliminating this component would not have affected the program materially but would
have decreased its complexity.
11.   Public Investments: The condition here was: "Adoption of the borrower's budget for 1994 which
shall reflect appropriate economic and financial criteria, and institutional guidelines for public



-lx-
investments in agriculture". This condition became irrelevant as a result of changes in government's
overall policy with respect to public investments. It should probably have been excluded from the ASAL,
since the thrust of pertinent policy changes, in the time of shock therapy, was evident during project
preparation.
Shortcomings
12.   Notwithstanding the complexity of the operation as it was, there are nevertheless two omissions
in the program that in hindsight have been detrimental to its overall effectiveness, complete disregard for
rural finance and no attention for the rural social safety net. It can be argued that other components of the
ASAL, such as restructuring of the ministry, attention for research and the public investment program,
could have been dropped in favor of efforts to restructure rural finance and to begin to address the rural
pension scheme.
Sustainability and Performance
13.   Project Sustainability: In late 1994, the prospects of EU Accession and the need to "harmonize"
agricultural policies with the CAP became an over-riding influence on Poland's agricultural sector policy
making. As a result, since 1994, the provisions of the MTSAP have, for all intents and purposes, been
subordinated to the accession process or became moot as guidelines for agricultural policy making.
Moreover, as a signatory to the WTO agreements, Poland's trade policy is governed by its commitments
under that signature. Hence, the sustainability of the agriculture price, subsidy and trade policy
framework of the ASAL should now be seen within the light of the EU's CAP and the WTO agreements.
Progress is continuing in privatization as well as in the creation of the enabling environment. It is
arguable whether these developments should be seen as sustained from the project or exogenous to it.
The land policy remains unsatisfactory. Government is making a major effort to try and sustain the
achievements in rural development, both with respect to physical infrastructure and to creation of new
economic activities. The reorganization of the MAFE, on-going curriculum developments in agriculture
related education and the renewed vigor and relevance of the extension service are unlikely to be turned
back. Hence, the likelihood that achievements in all these categories of project objectives will be
sustained is good.
14.   Bank Performance: The Bank's performance has been very supportive throughout the ASAL
preparation period and through its period of loan effectiveness. Major preparatory work was done by a
Bank led international task force whose work was fully collaborative, featuring extensive involvement by
Polish scholars and officials alike. This posture of intensive staff input, conjointly with heavy borrower
involvement extended through the preparation period and ASAL appraisal process, and undoubtedly
contributed to a sense of program ownership by Polish authorities. Regular supervisions were maintained
during the implementation period, and at an intensity marginally above that provided in standard
supervision coefficients. Still, on balance, the supervision effort was probably not sufficient given the
complexity of the operation.
15.   Borrower Performance: During preparation of the ASAL, in the earlier strategy work, and
during the ASAL's implementation phase the Borrower's performance has been highly satisfactory
despite changes of Government and of MAFE's senior officials.  The preparation process was
comprehensive and participatory. The two main instruments that assured continuity were the program's
implementation and monitoring office, ASAP, and the ministry's policy analysis unit, SAEPR. Perhaps
the least stellar aspect of borrower performance concerned the events that resulted in postponement of



second tranche release, i.e. the delays in privatization in the sugar sector and in obtaining authorization
for the audit of ARR.
Outcome and Lessons Learned
16.   Assesment of outcome and key lessons learned: The Poland ASAL was an ambitious operation,
even by standards set in the more comprehensive ASALs for e.g. other medium-income countries.
Measuring progress achieved in the light of the operation's complexity and relative to that of most other
transition countries the operation is rated satisfactory. What, though, are the key lessons that can be
learned from this first ASAL in a post communist country in central Europe?
-      While the comprehensive conditionality can be justified by the immensity of transition require-
ments, there is clearly no simple answer to whether this ASAL operation can, or should, be replicated. It
can be argued that the complexity of the policy content was less of a problem than the lack of focus of
the project. Moreover, Poland at the onset of transition was somewhat unique, even among the compara-
tively more advanced Visegrad countries. Hence, the question of replicability is very much a judgment
call, which can only be determined in the context of the economic transition/stabilization/adjustment
program adopted in each country, and the Bank's assistance strategy in support of that program.
-      With respect to transition strategy it has become clear that agriculture cannot be relied upon to
lead the economy out of transition recession. Rather, agriculture may well be more severely hampered by
an unstable economy and an inappropriate policy framework than other sectors of the economy. The
question as to whether development of the service sectors and supporting infrastructure will make the
rural sector vibrant remains unanswered. Evaluating the effectiveness of ARMA's programs in this
respect is an important unfinished aspect of the ASAL program.
*     ''The combination of structural adjustment lending, essentially balance of payments support, with
a substantial investment program in rural infrastructure has been key to success of the program. It is
difficult to see why successive governments and ministers of agriculture would have upheld the main
conditionalities, in the absence of a material contribution to the sector. Conversely, government's interest
in the lending part of the program would probably have waned, in step with the increase in the country's
foreign exchange reserves, but for the desire of the agriculture sector to obtain the ASAL associated
funding for rural development.






- 11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN 3600-POL
PART I. BANK
1 - Project Objectives
1.    The objectives of the ASAL were quite complex and in some instances not very specific. In
general terms, the operation sought to: (i) maintain an adequate macroeconomic framework for
agriculture, including appropriate price and subsidy policies and a coherent trade policy framework, (ii)
carry out urgent sector reforms, including the privatization and restructuring of SOEs and state farms,
(iii) create an enabling environment for private entry and competitive operation in agri-processing and
marketing, (iv) formulate a long-term land policy for private farms; and (v) implement a very
comprehensive program of legal/regulatory reforms and institution building measures, to convert the role
and functions of Government from management to monitoring and support. The objectives were
consonant with the policy of Poland's first transition government. They were developed jointly with
government, which committed itself to maintain earlier reforms and to broaden and deepen the program
in several complementary areas. Additionally, the operation supported a debt and debt service reduction
program formulated by the Polish Government jointly with the intemational community. The program
was a comerstone of the Bank's CAS in the early '90's.
2 - Achievement of Project Objectives
2.    Although realistic and demand driven, the resulting Medium Term Sector Adjustment Program,
(MTSAP) of government, that was supported by the loan, was complex and its implementation was
demanding. It consisted of seven sets of a total of 78 (!) monitorable actions and 33 technical assistance
studies and projects. Of these, six were conditions of tranche release. The transitory nature of Poland's
economy and society at the time, which provided fertile ground for structural transformations, made the
project robust with respect to potential changes in borrower circumstances and priorities. Adding to this
robustness was a particular feature of project design, whereby budgetary resources of the same order of
magnitude as the loan were made available for a program of rural infrastructure development, executed
by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy (MAFE), i.e. by the ministry that carried most of the
burden of restructuring.
3.    The seven sets of project objectives met with the following fate:
i - Agricultural Price, Subsidy and Trade Policy Framework: Government had largely eliminated
administratively set producer prices and consumer subsidies during the loan preparation period or before.
It had also effectively eliminated input subsidies and had adopted a general policy of eliminating export
subsidies for agricultural products. As a matter of fact, the PSE was substantially negative, at -20%, in
1990. Under the ASAL, the government committed itself to avoid backsliding on price/subsidy issues.
However, as the state's monopoly on power withered away, special interests emerged that have lobbied
with partial success for the maintenance, or reintroduction, of subsidies and other policy-induced
impediments to the broadening of market forces in the agri-food sector. During the ASAL preparation
and implementation period, the PSE has risen from 6% in 1991 to 21% in 1994, largely attributable to



- 12 -
market price support, all the time obeying the letter of the conditionalities, although not the spirit. Direct
state budgetary support in 1995, at the closure of the ASAL, through transfers and subsidies, was about I
percent of GDP. Nonetheless, though levels of agricultural support and protection have increased in
Poland, they have remained comparatively low; i.e. significantly less than in the EU and the USA, and
also lower, until 1994, than levels in other rapidly transitioning Visegrad states. Moreover, price support
has been largely offset by a steadily increasing overvaluation of the exchange rate.
On the institutional side, a parastatal Agricultural Marketing Agency (ARR) was established in June
1990, over Bank objections, after the system of state procurements had been abolished. Although
patterned after the US' Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC), ARR is functioning in a policy
environment that is far different from that of the USA, while it lacks most of the marketing instruments
available to the CCC. For administrative convenience, but also to encourage cross-regional equity,
ARR's defended prices are pan-territorial and do not change seasonally. As a result, markets have not
been very effective in arbitraging spatial and seasonal price differences wherever ARR intervenes.
Moreover, administratively set prices result in a stifling of private initiative in the market and in a large
budgetary burden. Under the ASAL several monitorable actions were set forth to ensure that the
activities of the ARR would contribute to the development of private agricultural markets, and that price
stabilization rather than intervention on behalf of farm, or consumer, income support would be its
primary operational objective'. Two key conditions, set and observed, were (i) a decline in real terms in
yearly budgetary allocations to ARR for price support and (ii) administrative separation of intervention
activities and acquisitions for the food reserves.
The government also committed to ensure the continuation of free trade policies adopted under the
Economic Transformation Program (ETP), which included (i) the abolition of all import quotas on food
and agricultural products and a substantial reduction in import tariffs, and (ii) removal of all export taxes
and quantitative restrictions on agrifood exports. This was done. During the ASAL implementation
period, funds to finance export subsidies were excluded from the budgets of ARR and other SOE trading
concerns.
ii. - SOE Privatization & The Enabling Environment: A three part program to privatize all state-owned
agro-industries was initiated during the ASAL preparation period, and carried over through the
implementation period as part of the "core conditionality" of the loan. Program items consisted of: (i)
the break-up and divestiture by the Anti-Monopoly Office of Poland's 18 largest cereals milling and
storage SOEs (PZZ), (ii) adoption of three-year action programs for the privatization and restructuring of
SOEs in five major agroindustrial subsectors,2 and (iii) the articulation of a strategy to prepare unsold
SOEs for privatization and of policies to govern the supervision and management of enterprises still
operating under public ownership.
The erstwhile cereals monopoly was broken up, although some of the resulting enterprises remain to be
sold, while several silos have been transferred to ARR, rather than being privatized. By October 1995,
some form of privatization had been implemented for about 60 percent of the 540 former state-owned
food processing enterprises, of which 184 had been completely privatized, while the state remained sole
shareholder in 153 joint-stock companies. Progress has varied from one sector to another: at one
extreme, brewing and meat industries were already mostly in private hands at the start of the
restructuring program, while only 15-20 percent of capacity in the fruit and vegetable processing
industries had been privatized. Meanwhile, the sugar industry remained almost entirely in state hands.
In addition, ARR maintains the country's strategic food reserves
2   Poultry and eggs, potatoes and starch, the sugar industry, cereals and feeds, and vegetable oils.



- 13 -
Implementation of an acceptable subsectoral privatization program for the sugar sector was one of the six
conditions for release of the second tranche. Privatization, and the creation of an appropriate operational
environment for the industry was deemed to require the legal foundation of a new law. A new sugar law
was enacted on August 26, 1994 which replaced the privatization strategy agreed during negotiations.
However, satisfactory progress in issuing the required regulations under the new law had not been made
by December 31, 1994, the original closing date, and a 12 month extension of that date was granted. By
early 1996, nine of the original 78 state owned sugar enterprises had been fully privatized, two were
placed in receivership in the first half of 1995, and five had been converted to State Treasury companies
(a precursor for privatization). Of the remaining plants, 15 had negative net worth and were likely
candidates for receivership and liquidation. Henceforth, privatization will follow regulations formulated
in July 1995 under arrangements that are obligatory for all state plants. The privatization conditionality
has thus been achieved in part only.
Under the ASAL, specific commitments were made to strengthen the enabling environment for
competition in the agricultural marketing and processing industries. The entire program of structural
changes was supported by substantial technical assistance, all of it with co-financing support.
Achievements under the program are largely intangible and can best be gauged by developments that can
be attributed to changes made. First, private sector development in agro-industries has been rapid and
substantial. While, in 1989, 90% of output was generated by state owned enterprises and cooperatives,
this figure had dropped to 65% in 1993. Input supply is also increasingly in private hands. By early 1994,
less than 50% of fertilizers, seeds and agro-chemicals were supplied through state owned sources. The
retail and wholesale trade sector is almost entirely in private hands, while the number of new private
retail firms has increased significantly in recent years. However, although almost fully privatized,
wholesale activity remains underdeveloped and inefficient3. Half of the grains are still sold to state
agencies, and more than 50% of milk produced still goes to public sector dominated cooperatives. The
meat market, on the other hand is already dominated by private trade. Overall, Polish farmers, by the mid
'90's had more choices than farmers in other transition economies do about who to buy from and to
whom to sell.
iii - Land Policies: Two important aspects of agricultural land policy were supported by the ASAL: (i)
formulation of a long-term land policy conducive to the development of markets for privately owned
farmland, and (ii) the design and inception of programs to privatize and restructure Poland's State Farm
sector. The land market component had several dimensions. In order to double the rate of private land
transactions, both of ownership exchange and transfers of usufructory rights, the government undertook
to identify critical enabling measures including the introduction of modem mortgage instruments and an
updating of farmland leasing regulations. These were to be supported by several initiatives to improve
the land administration system, including modernization of the cadastre and land registry, privatization
of land survey firms and notary services, the extension of new methodologies for land capability
assessments to five voivodships, accelerated implementation of the farmland consolidation program,
creation of funds to facilitate early retirement of elderly farmers and farm modernization. Much of this
has been achieved, notably the privatization of land survey firms and notary services, modernization of
part of the cadastre and land registry and the creation of funds to facilitatie farm modernization.
However, the lack of progress in accelerating consolidation and the failure to privatize ownership of the
bulk of former state farm lands has left the land market in limbo and its developmen short of
expectations at the time of ASAL preparation.
3   A Bank supported project for the construction of four new wholesale markets is under preparation.
4   Rate to be doubled during the loan implementation period



- 14-
Direct subsidies to statefarms had been eliminated in 1990. In the time slice of the MTSAP supported by
the ASAL, the government aimed to liquidate all state farms by end-1993, as an essential step towards
the eventual full privatization of state farm land and divestiture of associated agroprocessing operations.
The government also intended to fully privatize a minimum of 100 state farms, separate their social
assets from the productive assets, and transfer or sell off these social assets to local agencies,
cooperatives or the private sector. Legislation was to be submitted to govern the settlement of
reprivatization claims against state farm lands that had been nationalized. To guide the effort, a state
agricultural property agency was established at Bank insistence as the loan was being prepared.
The main "conditionalities" in this policy area, (i) legal and regulatory reforms to stimulate land market
development, (ii) improvements in Poland's land recording and titling system, and (iii) other measures to
facilitate the collateralization of farm lands, were only partially implemented. Among the achievements
are amendments to the Civil Code that eliminated farm size limits and several administrative
requirements that had previously discouraged private land sales and leasing. The computerization of
land registries (description only) was extended to about 80 percent of the agricultural area, and concrete
steps were underway by mid-1996 to introduce computerized land mapping. To improve the availability
of information about land purchase and rental opportunities, a TA project was initiated in 1996 to
develop an information system for buyers and sellers. Although TA and pilot projects are trying to
address the consolidation issue5, the official land consolidation program under the auspices of MAFE,
addressing itself to about 25,000 ha. yearly, is too modest to have a significant impact on restructuring of
land holdings.
The Agricultural Property Agency of the State Treasury (APA) is the holding company of all assets from
the former state farms. Established in 1992, APA has been largely ineffective in achieving its primary
objectives. Of the 4.4 million ha. taken over by APA, representing about 25 percent of Poland's arable
land, about 24 percent was being managed by administrators or stewards by the end of September 1995,
some 60 percent was being leased, and 1 1 percent was in the process of being transferred to buyers or
lessees5, less than 5 percent (0.2 million ha.) has been sold. Most lands have been leased to private
operators, in effect privatizing production rather than ownership.7 In contrast with the pace of land
privatization, about 70 percent of the non-land assets taken over by the APA have been privatized.8 The
quest for short term revenues on the part of APA9 and a "dirigiste" approach to agricultural development
impede the transfer of land ownership. In addition, low profitability of farming, financial constraints
facing smallish Polish farmers, and the unsolved ownership status of many parcels contribute to making
the land market less than buoyant.
5   The average size of an agricultural holding in Poland is only 6 ha., often in 5 or more scattered plots
6   cf. OECD (1996), p. 48. Leasing has been the predominant form of privatization, mostly due to financial
constraints facing agriculture, but also because of the unresolved legal ownership status of many parcels held
by the state. In some cases, the continuing absence of proper legislation dealing with the restitution of assets is
an obstacle.
It should be noted, though, that leasing of agricultural land is common in market economies. For instance, in
1993, 45 percent of the available agricultural area in what used to be West Germany was leased; the figure for
the former East Germany was 90 percent.
OECD (1996), p. 48
The agency is self financing, ie. it is off-budget, but remains unable to service the debt taken over from the
former state farm complexes.



- 15-
Thus, the letter of the conditions has largely been met, though not the spirit. All state farms have been
liquidated, but they have been consolidated in a state owned holding company. Operations on former
state farm lands have been privatized, through leasing, rather than ownership proper.
iv - Rural Development: The MTSAP contained a multi-part approach towards improving the capacity
of local governments to plan, promote and finance rural development programs and projects. To improve
planning and financing, the first part of the approach had three subsidiary elements: (i) assure that
central government support for local government efforts be strengthened, (ii) improve the funding
mechanism for rural infrastructure and, (iii) coordinate rural development with local privatization
programs. To improve the cost effectiveness of rural infrastructure programs, the Government
undertook to transfer most project selection decisions, implementation authority as well as partial
responsibility for project financing to Poland's rural gminas. Infrastructure to be so organized and
financed included water supply, sewerage treatment and disposal and telephone connections. Two other
elements of the novel approach towards local development in general and regional planning in particular
were: (i) to stimulate employment creation in non-farm activities, through self-employment activities and
the establishment of micro-enterprises in rural areas10, and (ii) prepare and implement gmina
development and land use plans in eight pilot gminas during the ASAL implementation period.
The Agency for Reconstruction and Modernization of Agriculture (ARMA) was established, in 1994,
within MAFE, as the vehicle to channel financial support for rural development as agreed upon under the
ASAL'1, and laid down in the protocol of negotiations, a total of the equivalent of US$ 250 million.
Although actual disbursements of the funds concerned, coming as they do from the budget, are not
subject to Bank scrutiny or disbursement regulations, the operational policies of ARMA, and particularly
the end-use of its ASAL derived funds have been designed with Bank participation. ARMA support is
limited to rural gminas and mixed urban-rural gminas with subsidy caps not exceeding 40 percent of
total investment in any one project. ARMA has issued guidelines for project preparation and for format
and content of documentation in support of a financing request. The agency does not initiate projects; the
program is entirely demand driven. In 1995 ARMA subsidized 968 projects, of which 683 for water
supply, 176 for waste disposal systems and 109 telephone related projects. Its ASAL derived funds will
be fully disbursed in mid 1997.
From the Polish Government's viewpoint, the availability of counterpart funds from the ASAL to finance
a portion of local infrastructure investment programs was probably the signal financial benefit of the
ASAL program . The need for import financing, seemingly paramount when the ASAL was identified in
1991, had largely disappeared by the time it became effective in 1993. However, the program was not
merely a political convenience. Under Bank scrutiny and in the best tradition of public investment
program management and financing, the Polish government established broad investment priorities, by
type of investment and region, to ensure that funds would be available for critical infrastructure, and dis-
proportionately for the poorer locales. Since the funds were explicitly earmarked for rural infrastructure
development, ARMA enjoyed the capacity within otherwise very tight budgetary constraints to engage in
systematic multi-year programming of support for rural infrastructure development. In sum, though not
reflected explicitly in the design of the ASAL, the responsible and responsive use of counterpart
proceeds by the Polish government presented the Bank with a very creative way to support an important
and decentralized public sector initiative in rural areas, where almost the entire investment requirement
was for local cost financing.
10 The latter was to be done mainly through local banks and budgetary channels.
The obligation to establish a Rural Development Fund, agreed during negotiations, was revoked in favor of
establishing ARMA.



- 16-
v -Reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture. This component aimed to adapt the organization of
the MAFE to the needs of a market economy. Its main elements included the creation of an improved
capability in agricultural policy analysis and formulation, setting up agricultural price and market
information services, and establishing a stronger capability to deal with rural development issues. Prior
to loan approval, MAFE had already been selected as the first pilot ministry for restructuring under the
Council of Minister's then program for "Restructuring Public Administration." A team was created
within MAFE to implement the restructuring proposals, and a condition of second Tranche Release was
evidence of satisfactory implementation of the organizational restructuring program for MAFE and
related agencies. The intended restructuring has by and large been achieved, with the creation of the
ministry's policy analysis unit arguably being the most important accomplishment.
vi -Agricultural Education, Research and Extension: The first of two remaining components aimed to
reorient, reorganize and strengthen agricultural education, research and extension in Poland by adapting
offerings and programs to the needs of a market based agriculture, and by improving coordination
amongst the several faculties and agencies responsible for program development and execution. The
United States Department of Agriculture undertook to revamp the extension service, broadening its area
of activity from purely technical advice to include business and managerial aspects of farm operation.
The curricula of the agricultural high schools have been revamped in an effort to improve the relevance
of what is taught and to impart skills that are marketable in contemporary Poland. The ASAL program
has had virtually no impact on research. Education, and extension have been revamped largely
independent from the ASAL. Indeed, restructuring in all three areas was started prior to the ASAL's
effectiveness. Eliminating this component would not have affected the program materially but would
have decreased its complexity.
vii - Public Investments: The last component involved a general undertaking to improve the overall
efficiency of public investment in agriculture, mainly by implementing the main recommendations of a
pre-ASAL review of Public Sector Investment in Agriculture, that had been carried out jointly by
Government and the Bank. The loan stipulated that by early 1994, a Monitoring & Evaluation Unit
would be set up within MAFE for the agricultural public investment program, while the 1994 state
budget would reflect the application of appropriate economic and financial criteria, and institutional
guidelines, to the programming and implementation of public agricultural investments. This was done.,
and together with the greatly diminished flow of budget funds into the sector has led to a fundamental
change in the public investment posture in agriculture. Hoewever, this condition became irrelevant as a
result of changes in government's overall policy with respect to public investments. The public
investment conditionality should probably have been excluded from the ASAL, since the thrust of
pertinent policy changes, in the time of shock therapy, was evident during project preparation.
3 - Implementation Record and Major Factors that Have Affected the Project
4.    It is a matter of judgment whether the key objective of "maintaining  an adequate macro-
economic framework for agriculture" has been achieved. Government's shock therapy had left the sector
seriously disprotected, with a PSE of -20% in 1990. It can be argued that this figure implies that the rural
sector, where a substantial segment of the population lives, where poverty is concentrated and that,
particularly at that time, was functioning as a buffer for unemployment, did not operate within an
adequate macro-economic framework. Social and hence political arguments were made, including by the
electorate, to adjust the framework. The ASAL operation has been instrumental in resisting the more
extreme demands to do so and, notably, in limiting budget support for price intervention, through its
quantitative conditionality to decrease annual allocations for such support in real terms. Market price



- 17-
support constituted, in 1993, well over 90% of the PSE. These and other, mostly qualitative arguments,
have kept support within bounds, and much lower than protection levels seen in other Visegrad countries.
5.     Two of the 78 monitorable actions were left uncompleted at the project's original closing date,
satisfactory progress in implementation of privatization in the sugar sector and the conduct of an
operational audit of ARR. The first, privatization in the sugar sector, was held hostage to a new law
governing the sector, passage of which was not under government's control. The second, an audit of
ARR, required permission of the prime minister, since ARR is responsible for the food reserves, a matter
of state security. It took over a year, and the mounting pressure of second tranche release, for this
authorization to be granted and then only on the condition that all aspects of the food reserves would be
audited by an accredited Polish consulting company.
6.     An ASAL implementation office in the MAFE has been instrumental in guiding and monitoring
all aspects of implementation, including initiating and supervising the 33 TA studies and projects
mandated by the loan agreement. Financial and technical support from the international donor
community has been key to the success of this ambitious program.
4 - Project Sustainability
7.    In late 1994, the prospects of EU Accession and the need to "harmonize" agricultural policies
with the CAP became an over-riding influence on Poland's agricultural sector policy making. Much of
the present array of intervention and support resembles the policies existing under the EU's CAP prior to
the MacSharry reforms. Not coincidentally, as Poland moved to join the EU, the CAP-like nature of the
third phase reforms has been attributed to a perceived need to harmonize CEEC agricultural policies in
the transition period with the specific features of the CAP.12 As a result, since 1994, the provisions of
the MTSAP have, for all intents and purposes, been subordinated to the accession process or became
moot as guidelines for agricultural policy making. Moreover, as a signatory to the WTO agreements,
Poland's trade policy is governed by its commitments under that signature. Hence, the sustainability of
the agriculture price, subsidy and trade policy framework of the ASAL should now be seen within the
light of the EU's CAP and the WTO agreements.
8.     Progress is continuing in privatization as well as in the creation of the enabling environment. It is
arguable whether these developments should be seen as sustained from the project or exogenous to it.
The land policy remains unsatisfactory.
9.     Government is making a major effort to try and sustain the achievements in rural development,
13
both with respect to physical infrastructure and to creation of new economic activities
10.    The reorganization of the MAFE, on-going curriculum  developments in agriculture related
education and the renewed vigor and relevance of the extension service are unlikely to be turned back. It
is equally unlikely that the public sector will ask for, or will be able to obtain, sufficient budgetary
resources to renew its public investment program to pre 1989 levels. Hence, the likelihood that
achievements in all these categories of project objectives will be sustained is good.
2  The causal or explanatory power of "accession" however is not universally accepted. Swinnen, 1994, de
Gorter et al., 1991 and others argue that a comprehensive set of policies to establish intervention at CAP levels
would have been adopted in any event, owing to forces inherent in the political economy of protection.
13  The Bank has been asked to support these efforts.



- 18-
5 - Bank Performance
11.    The Bank's performance has been very supportive throughout the ASAL preparation period and
through its period of loan effectiveness. Staff involvement with Poland's agricultural reform program
began well in advance of the first Bank mission for the ASAL (October 1990), and its formal
identification date (June 20, 1991). Major preparatory work was done by a Bank led intemational task
force whose work was fully collaborative, featuring extensive involvement by Polish scholars and
officials alike. This posture of intensive staff input, conjointly with heavy borrower involvement
extended through the preparation period and ASAL appraisal process, and undoubtedly contributed to a
sense of program ownership by Polish authorities. Though preparation required 15 months (Annex 5),
and still another 23 months elapsed between departure of the appraisal mission and Board Presentation,
the delays proved worthwhile as it provided successive governments with sufficient time to review and
endorse the MTSAP and provisions of the ASAL policy letter (which was finally signed on November
19, 1992). As subsequent developments have shown, the main provisions of the ASAL have proved quite
robust in the face of an accreting "transition fatigue", which no doubt stems from the sense of program
ownership that accrued as a result of patience during the period of loan origination and negotiation.
12.   Regular supervisions were maintained during the implementation period, and at an intensity
marginally above that provided in standard supervision coefficients. Still, on balance, the supervision
effort was probably not sufficient given the complexity of the operation, which may have contributed to
a loss of momentum in some areas of reform prior to the scheduled release of the second tranche.14
Additionally, the Bank assigned a succession of four task managers during the ASAL preparation and
implementation period, which resulted in some dilution of focus on the part of the Bank. This was
exacerbated by several reassignments of country and sector responsibilities in the ECA Region, at both
the departmental and division levels. Nevertheless, when it was essential to do so, e.g. in the run-up to
second tranche release, well staffed missions were fielded to ensure that issues at hand could be dealt
with properly.
6 - Borrower Performance
13.    During preparation of the ASAL, in the earlier strategy work, and during the ASAL's
implementation phase the Borrower's performance has been highly satisfactory despite changes of
Government and of MAFE's senior officials.  The preparation process was comprehensive and
participatory, the results of the earlier Task Force and of working groups involved in the preparation
were valuable, authoritative and ultimately proved instrumental in convincing successive Polish cabinets
that the ASAL agreements were consistent with their own political agenda. The two main instruments
that assured continuity were the program's implementation and monitoring office, ASAP, and the
ministry's policy analysis unit, SAEPR. As a result, the main features of the MTSAP continued to be
implemented until the MTSAP itself was superseded by the process of EU accession.
14.    Tellingly, important aspects of the institutional reform program continued to be implemented
during the two year hiatus in tranche release, in particular the rural infrastructure program. At the same
time, MAFE was able to resist political pressures to extend ARR's price support operations into
additional commodities, such as sales of swine, while the Ministry of Finance continued to hold the
agricultural budget under a tight rein and resisted pressures to place the financing of the APA on-budget.
14  2nd tranche release was originally programmed for February 28, 1994. Actual release of the tranche occurred
two years later, on March 20, 1996.



- 19 -
15.   Perhaps the least stellar aspect of Borrower performance concerned the events that resulted in
postponement of second tranche release, i.e. the delays in privatization in the sugar sector and in
obtaining authorization for the audit of ARR. Owing to these delays, government requested and was
granted a 12 month extension of the closing date, to December 31, 1995. By end-December 1995, the
sugar industry condition had been satisfied, and an operational audit for ARR was underway (but not yet
completed). Government was granted a further extension of the loan's closing date to March 31, 1996.
Fortunately the consequence of these delays was not catastrophic, most earlier reforms remained in
place, and others were even advanced. However, it could have been avoided had timely action been taken
before the original closing date to fulfill the tranche release conditions. Despite these glitches, the
government's overall performance under the ASAL was highly satisfactory. The government's
contribution to this ICR is presented, verbatim, in Part II.
7 - Assessment of Outcome
16.    The Poland ASAL was an ambitious operation, even by standards set in the more comprehensive
ASALs for e.g. other medium-income countries. Notwithstanding its scope and comprehensiveness, the
operation is rated satisfactory. This assessment derives from the above reviews of progress towards
meeting loan objectives, and of implementation performance.
8 - Future Operation
17.   The expected future of the structural changes brought about and initiated by the project is
implied in the judgments about the project's sustainability. It is clear that Poland has firmly and
irrevocably committed to a market economy. Government's policies, international commitments and
public and private institutional development all are fully consonant with these developments. It is thus
clear that the major thrust of the changes brought about will continue, albeit not always in a strict
economically optimum sense.
9 - Key Lessons Learned
i - On Reforms: In terms of pointers for transition strategy, two important lessons can be derived from
the ASAL experience. First, experience since 1989 has failed to confirm the expectation that the
agricultural sector's growth and export potential could somehow be easily harnessed to lead the economy
out of the transition recession. Quite the contrary occurred: amongst Poland's real sectors, agriculture has
proved to be a laggard, not a leading sector and stimulus for growth. It wasn't until 1995 that agriculture
returned to a posture of apparently sustainable growth, though at a more moderate rate than growth of the
economy at large. The lesson here, for countries still in the early phases of transition, is simply not to
load agriculture with undue expectations. Rather, the hard decisions about reform must be made
economy-wide and implemented in concert with strictly agricultural sector reforms, as the locus of
economic recovery (and main growth stimuli) will reside in sectors having fewer inherited dislocations
and structural problems than the post-socialist "endowment" to agriculture. Second, it is now apparent
that agricultural recovery in the transition economies, more so than recovery in other real sectors, is
severely inhibited by an unstable economy. Owing to the phenomena of covariant risk(s), the small(er)
size of operating units, higher marketing and transaction costs and restricted access to finance,
agriculturists and agro-enterprises are quicker to reduce their scale of operations in the face of inflation
and instability than operators in most other (non-rural?) sectors appear to be. Thus, again, it may have
been foolhardy to anticipate much recovery in Poland's agricultural sector before end-1993, when macro-
economic stability finally had been regained.



- 20 -
While there can be little disagreement with the government's decision to apply "shock therapy" when the
ETP and MTSAP were formulated, the underlying arguments may have been less compelling for
extending this approach to the transition in agriculture than to macroeconomic policies and programs,
and to reform in other sectors. Since agriculture proved unable to lead the economy out of recession,
some sequencing might have been profitably employed, given the sector's structural problems on the eve
of transition.
ii - From Omissions: Arguably the most serious problem for rural development in general and for Polish
agriculture in particular, is the lingering problem of an essentially unrestructured rural financial system.
The lack of real progress in reforming rural financial markets, since the ASAL was designed has tended
to leave smaller farmers behind in the adjustment process. As is, interest rate subsidies are the single
most important instrument used in support of rural finance, while a largely unrestructured cooperative
banking system is the dominant delivery vehicle. The stagnation in restructuring the rural finance sector
also leaves that sector increasingly behind developments in the otherwise dynamic larger Polish financial
sector. The dominance of the state owned agricultural bank, BGZ, favored with a government guarantee
on its deposits and distributor of government largesse in the form of, inevitably rationed, interest
subsidies, prohibits the rest of the banking sector from seeking out aggressively the rural clientele. With
the benefit of hindsight, it would have been opportune to incorporate conditionality in the ASAL aiming
to jump-start reform in Poland's rural financial markets, even if that would have meant changing the
conditionality package by omitting some other, less urgent, reforms.
The safetv net for Poland's rural economy, such as it is, consists mainly of retirement pensions and other
social security-type allowances. With only 15-20 percent of all farms earning positive net income, social
security payments account for over 20 percent of total farm household income. In 1995, these payments
absorbed 73 percent of the budget of MAFE or 6.8 percent of the consolidated state budget. The total
number of people employed solely in farming grew by over 13 percent between 1988-94. The Polish
countryside alleviated the problem of increasing unemployment, nationwide, in that period; it acted as a
buffer for the unemployed. The Bank's poverty assessment of Poland,15 using data through 1993,
concluded that 14.4 percent of the population were to be considered poor. Fully 60 percent of the poor
were living in rural villages, although only 40% of the total population is considered to be rural. Thus, in
1993, 21.6 percent of village inhabitants were to be considered poor, as compared with the country
average of 14.4 percent. The combination of high rural unemployment, and high relative share of poverty
among the rural population has led to a concentration of poverty in the countryside. The ASAL could
have been better harnessed to the task of alleviating rural poverty, particularly since the complexity,
national scale and multisectoral dimension of the problem argue for a specific targeted approach.
iii - On Capacity Building: The MAFE now has a well staffed and trained, policy analysis unit, known
by the Polish acronym SAEPR,  that provides support to the Cabinet of the Minister for key policy
matters. SAEPR was established as a special project unit, and budgeted separately from MAFE's civil
service lists. This has enabled it to attract qualified staff, and to avail of considerable foreign technical
assistance: Recognizing that the need for home grown policy advice is self evident there are at least two
operational lessons to be learned. First, competent expertise should be available to give technical
assistance in the formative stages of an ambitious reform program like the one embodied in the MTSAP.
It is important that such a unit be up and running in the very early phases of the reform, positioned
15 World Bank (1995). In this assessment the poor are those whose expenditures are below the minimum pension,
which in Poland is 39 percent of the average wage. In 1995, the poverty threshold was, thus, those with
monthly expenditures below PLN 284, equivalent with approximately US$ 117.
16 Sekcja Analiz Ekonomicznych Polityki Rolnej



- 21 -
someplace within government, given needed independence and somehow be insulated from the daily
concerns and travail of government departments. But second, it is probably wishful to hope that such a
unit can be institutionalized with a special salary scale and with professional credibility while remaining
above the daily affairs and internal politics of its parent ministry. In this sense, a SAEPR-type unit will
suffer (as indeed SAEPR is suffering) from the malaise usually associated with special project units. Its
period of real usefulness can thus be expected to be finite, unless it can be incorporated within the
ministry's administrative structure, without losing its expertise.
Perhaps the weakest implementation performance was demonstrated in the attempts to restructure and
reform Poland's agricultural education and agricultural research nexus, through adjustment lending-type
conditionalities. Not only were the "conditionalities" per se extremely vague and general (e.g. Annex 3,
pp. 78-79 of the President's Report), but the supervision of this kind of institution building effort
requires a concentrated effort and dedicated inputs of specialist staff. Considerably more attention to
particulars of the component, and to the finer details of implementation was required at the design stage
than apparently was possible. In this instance, comprehensiveness of the entire operation was achieved at
the expense of depth, while proper supervision of this component would have vastly exceeded the
resources available within the confines of the ASAL's supervision budget.
iv - On Format: The main issues in regard to loan format concern its replicability and its content. While
the comprehensive conditionality can be justified by the immensity of transition requirements remaining
in much of the old Soviet-bloc, there is clearly no simple or convenient answer to whether this can, or
should, be replicated. Poland at the onset of transition was somewhat unique, even among the
comparatively more advanced Visegrad countries. Governments in the immediate post-reform era
availed of the opportunity (and political window) provided by an immense popular enthusiasm for
reform, equated at the time with the return of democratic decision-making. Poland also had benefited
from considerable earlier reform, during the period of "Reform Communism", that simply had not been
attempted in, say, Romania and Bulgaria, or in most of the FSU. The question of replicability thus is very
much a judgment call, which can only be determined in the context of the economic
transition/stabilization/adjustment program adopted in each country, and the Bank's assistance strategy in
support of that program. When an approach analogous to the ETP is adopted, however, the government,
and the Bank, may do well to consider a broad initiative such as the MTSAP and financial support
through Poland ASAL type operations, provided of course that staff are convinced that the reforms and
reform momentum, once underway, will survive subsequent changes in government and that the Bank is
prepared to provide the supervision resources required.
With respect to content, the conditionality attendant on a main objective, "to maintain an adequate
macro-economic framework", was insufficiently specific and quantified. The one conditionality that was
objectively defined, to decrease price support in real terms, has been effective in putting a cap on
demands for protection. In hindsight it may be argued that a cap on the PSE, or a maximum annual
increase, would have been a more effective condition as a means to maintain an adequate macro-
economic framework for the sector than the mere statement of intent contained in the ASAL. A similar
observation can be made with respect to the ARR. The Bank has been critical of the very existence of the
ARR, since its inception, without however offering an alternative. It would have been more effective and
more pragmatic if the legitimacy of a support vehicle would have been recognized and the ASAL used to
make operations rule based, rather than ad-hoc administrative. With such a strategy it might have been
possible to emulate the operations of, say, the US' Commodity Credit Corporation, which puts a floor
under production risk for key commodities, particularly grains, without impeding the operation of the
market.



- 22 -
v - On Process: Conceptualization and the design of the ASAL's policy package were grounded in
extensive Borrower participation, and systematic efforts to involve other members of the international
financial community. Quality at entry was high. The Bank's flexibility during tranche review, once the
more important unfulfilled conditionality had been satisfied, probably resulted in a more feasible
approach towards the restructuring and privatization of the sugar industry, than the "one fell swoop"
approach as contained in the negotiated condition would have been. In doing so, the Bank insured that
the "good" would not be held hostage by the unobtainable "perfect". The foreign exchange justification
for the ASAL was somewhat mooted at the time of effectiveness by the rapid return of external balance
to the Polish economy. By the time the second tranche was released, this justification had been totally
invalidated by at least three years' of strong economic performance. However, the serendipitous
availability of "unencumbered" counterpart proceeds, which MAFE could apply to the rural
infrastructure program, provided a continuing incentive to MAFE and its succession of Ministers to
continue to support implementation of the ASAL reforms. The ICR mission also was informed by
responsible officials from the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank that, in their view, the freeing up
of counterpart funds was the main benefit derived from ASAL disbursements. Perhaps this underscores
the utility of OED's recent suggestion that some modification of AGSECALs as a lending instrument is
needed, notably by dropping the requirement that AGSECALs be restricted to quick disbursement
lending.'7 Additionally, increased flexibility on rules governing the provision of strictly local cost
financing to IBRD countries might increase the utility and demand for Bank assistance in this critical
area, to help finance the woefully undeveloped rural infrastructure in transitioning economies while
improving the organization and management of rural infrastructure investment programs.
17  OED 1996b



- 23 -
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ASAL-300
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT'8
PART II. BORROWER
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    In late March 1996, the World Bank (WB) stated that actions carried out in the framework of the
Medium Term Sector Adjustment Programme (MTSAP) had been satisfactorily completed and
proceeded to the release of the last tranche of ASAL, amounting to US $ 100 million. The Programme
was monitored by ASAP Office, set up for that purpose within the Foundation of Assistance programmes
for Agriculture (FAPA), following the relevant arrangements between the Government of Poland and the
World Bank and prescribed under the Loan Agreement of 2 June 1992, Washington. Every three months
ASAP Office presented ASAL Quarterly Report (in Polish and in English) regarding the Programme,
technical assistance projects aimed to support the Programme, and ASAL disbursement through the
Agency for the Restructuring and Modemisation of Agriculture (ARiMR). The Report was prepared
jointly with the Ministry of Agriculture and with other ministries and governmental agencies involved in
the Programme. The last Quarterly Report outlined the status as of March 31 st, 1996.
2.    According to WB's procedures, the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is prepared by
both the Bank and the Borrower separately, upon completion of the loan. The Borrowers' report,
subsequently enclosed as an annex to WB's report, should comprise the following: (a) a frank assessment
of goals, plans, arrangements and experiences related to the loan, (b) an assessment of performance of
the World Bank and other international institutions in the phase of application and in the phase of
disbursement (c) self-assessment by the Borrower.
II. ASAL-300 BACKGROUND
3.    In April 1990, the Government of Poland debated about the need of a strategy for agriculture.
Following meetings with WB's representatives, a joint team (Task -Force) was set up to conceive such a
strategy and to present the relevant proposal by the end of July 1990. The European Union (actually,
EEC at that time) supported the project and co-financed the work of consultants. The Task Force,
comprising foreign and Polish experts, prepared The Agricultural Strategy for Poland. The document was
presented to the Management of the Ministry of Agriculture, and subsequently, to the Council of
Ministers. Key recommendations presented within the Strategy were subsequently adopted by the
Council of Ministers.
18 This report was prepared under the auspices of Dr. Tadeusz Borek of the ASAP office



- 24 -
4.    In October 1990, during G-24 summit in Brussels, the Government of Poland presented the
Strategy for Poland and the preliminary reform policy. On that occasion, many donors expressed their
willingness to support Poland in the implementation of planned reforms.
5.    The Government of Poland changed twice between July 1990 and May 1993, when the Board of
Governors of the World Bank endorsed the completion of preliminary conditions for ASAL Agreement
and decided upon the stipulation of the Agreement and release of the first tranche. Between the
stipulation of the Loan Agreement and the release of the last tranche of ASAL, there were three new
governments in Poland. The following governments were however, adopting key principles of the
Agricultural Strategy.
6.     Medium Sector Adjustment Programme (MTSAP) was prepared by the Government of Poland
together with the World Bank, basing on the Strategy for Poland and so called Balcerowicz's Economic
Transformation Programme. Due implementation of MTSAP, according to the Plan of Actions and the
Time schedule, was necessary for the release of subsequent tranches of ASAL-300. Initially, actions
agreed under the Programme, were planned to be accomplished in 18 months.
7.    ASAL-300 (US$ 300 million) was aimed to improve the balance of payments of the Borrower,
i.e., the Government of Poland. The first tranche was equal to US$ 200 million. As prescribed under the
Negotiation Protocol, US$ 100 million was allocated to repayments of the London Club's debt
(preliminary condition for external debt reduction). According to the Protocol, the Government of Poland
was obligated to allocate US$ 200 million from the budget of state to the co-financing of development of
water supply systems, sewage systems and telephone network in rural areas, and additionally, US$ 50
million to other types of rural infrastructure, agricultural market infrastructure, technical assistance for
local development projects, agricultural extension, as well as investment funds for micro-enterprises. The
funds for the co-financing of the above mentioned purposes were disbursed through the Agency for the
Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture (ARiMR).
8.    As regards the completion of preliminary conditions for the Loan Agreement, the relevant
documentation was presented to the World Bank in December 1992. In May 1993, the Board of Directors
of the World Bank endorsed the completion of preliminary conditions and decided upon stipulation of
the Loan Agreement and the first tranche release. The Agreement was signed in September 1993 and the
first tranche of ASAL was released in December 1993. The second tranche release was initially planned
for December 1994. It was postponed till December 1995, and finally, released in late March 1996. The
final evaluation of actions necessary for the release of the second tranche was carried out by WB's
Supervisory Mission and, subsequently, presented to the Board of Directors in early March 1996.
Following approval by the Board of Directors in late March 1996, the entire second tranche was
transferred to Poland before April 19th, 1996
III. EVALUATION OF ACCOMPLISHMENT OF ASAL OBJECTIVES
9.    ASAL had two main objectives. The first (immediate) was to co-finance / speed up the
development of water supply systems, sewage systems and telephone network in rural areas, considered
a groundwork for multifunctional development of rural areas, and to support the development of rural
market infrastructure. The second goal, far more important for market oriented transformation of Polish



- 25 -
economy, was accomplishment of the Medium Term Sector Adjustment Programme (MTSAP). ASAL-
300 was actually an Adjustment Loan.
IV. ASAL DISBURSEMENTS
10.   Following a decision by the Council of Ministers and according to arrangements with the World
Bank, ASAL funds were disbursed by the Agency of Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture
(ARiMR). A special Team in charge of ASAL has been established within ARiMR and a separate
bookkeeping pertaining to ASAL accounting has been adopted.
As agreed upon with the World Bank, the equivalent of US$ 250 million was to be allocated as follows:
*   water supply                         US$ 80 million
*   sewage systems                       US$ 70 million
*   telephone network                    US$ 50 million
*                          Total:        US$ 200 million
-   market infrastructure                USS 50* million
Total:       US$ 250 million
ARiMR has been financing the above investments via subsidies and loans, in accordance with relevant
decisions adopted by the Council of Ministers. The cofinancing of water supply, sewage and telephone
network began in 1994, while the co-financing of micro-enterprises in rural areas and the co-financing of
agricultural wholesale markets and commodity exchanges was started in 1995.
Till the end of 1995, ARiMR stipulated:
*   1,570 contracts as regards water supply
*   326 contracts as regards sewage systems
*   246 contracts as regards telephone network
with the following outcomes:
*   farms connected to water supply systems
*   farms connected to sewage systems
*   sewage treatment plants built
*   new telephone users in rural areas
Till May 31st, 1996, ARiMR received further 506 applications as regards the cofinancing of water
supply systems (338), sewage systems (124) and telephone network (44).
11. ARiMR disbursed 1,003 loans for the development of micro-enterprises in rural areas. Newly created
or developing micro-enterprises (up to 6 employees) in rural areas which had been provided with this
financing, obligated themselves to create 4,176 new jobs, mostly in the processing, services and trade.
12. In 1995, ARiMR disbursed 5 loans, each of new zI 10 million (approximately US$ 4 million) to
wholesale markets and commodity exchanges. Further 8 applications were submitted in 1996.



- 26 -
V. MEDIUM TERM SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAMME
13. MTSAP prepared jointly by Polish and WB's experts, had been a foundation of Polish agricultural
policy till 1994, when Polish Government presented a new programme for agriculture till the year 2000.
The Medium Term Sector adjustment Programme embraced actions to be completed in the domain of:
* Agricultural price, subsidy and trade policy framework
* Privatisation and restructuring of the agricultural marketing and processing sector
* Land policy and development of the private farmland market
* Institutional framework for the development of the rural market economy
* Reform of agricultural education, research and extension
* Public investment programme for agriculture
* Reorganisation of the Ministry of Agriculture and related agencies
Some significant actions had been undertaken in the framework of economic transformation programmes
before ASAL Agreement was signed and before the Programme as such began.
Please, find below a concise description of ASAL objectives and a short evaluation of their
accomplishment.
A. Agricultural Price, Subsidy & Trade Policy Framework
Objective:
Eliminate policy-induced distortions in input and output pricing
Achievements:
Administratively set producer prices for agricultural products have been eliminated. Prices are formed
entirely by the market. Input subsidies, subsidies to export of agricultural products and consumer
subsidies have been eliminated. Tariffs applied to imports of agricultural products have been reduced.
Export taxes and quantitative restrictions on imports and exports of agricultural products have been
eliminated. Prices of agricultural and food products are approaching the level of world prices.
Objective:
Ensure that activities of the Agricultural Market Agency (ARR) contribute to the development of private
agricultural market and that its budget is used to promote price stabilisation
Achievements:
* Starting from 1993, separate budgets and accounts have been adopted for intervention activities and
state food reserves by ARR.
* Intervention activities carried out by ARR are based on competitive market procedures. ARR applies
market prices to purchase, storage and sales of products subject to state food reserves. In case of
intervention acquisitions of grain, milk and meat, ARR applies intervention prices, based on minimal
prices adopted by the Council of Ministers. Intervention sales are carried out via lenders. In case of
intervention acquisitions of other articles, like honey, sugar or potato starch, ARR applies process



- 27 -
based on market prices.
*  Conformity of ARR's activities to existing anti-monopoly legislation has been ensured. In the years
1992-1994, the Anti-Monopoly Office prepared the relevant memorandum each year, stating that
there are no serious hazards for fair competition in relation with ARR activities.
*  The scope of market interventions has been gradually restricted. The share of private firms in the
market and their participation in ARR's operations (implementation of purchase and sale) have
significantly increased, however some trade operations are still carried out by ARR itself. ARR
supports development of commodity exchanges and agricultural wholesale markets.
*  As agreed with the World Bank, each year the entire budget for intervention activities by ARR was
being limited in constant terms.
*  An operational audit has been completed on the operations of ARR. The audit recommendations
have been agreed upon with the World Bank and adopted by the Government of Poland.
Objective:
Ensure the continuation of the free trade policies adopted under the Economic Transformation
Programme.
Achievements:
*  Domestic and foreign trade have been privatised
*  Agricultural export subsidies have been eliminated
*  A consistent system of tariffs, in accordance with GATT, has been applied to agricultural raw
materials and related processed products. Trade liberalisation agreements have been stipulated with
the European Union, CEFTA and other countries. New tariffs, in accordance with WTO agreements,
have been enforced since July I st, 1995.
*  Continuous monitoring of access to foreign agricultural markets have been started. The Foreign
Agricultural Markets Monitoring Unit operates on regular bases since July 1995.
B. Privatisation & Restructuring of the Agricultural Marketing & Processing Sector
Objective:
Privatise all state-owned agro-industries
Achievements:
*  More than 2/3 of food is produced by private sector ( 1995).
*  Subsector Action Programmes have been prepared and implemented in the poultry-eggs industry and
the potato-processing industry. The two Programmes are nearly completed. Most state-owned
enterprises in privatisation proceedings). The third subsector, agreed upon with WB, i.e., the sugar-
processing industry is undergoing restructuring and privatisation according to so called 'Sugar Law'
of 26 August 1994. Standardised privatisation proceedings have been carried out in case of some
individual sugar-processing plants.
*  Action Programmes have been prepared and adopted for two additional subsectors, i.e., the oil-
processing industry and the cereals subsector.



- 28 -
*  The cereals sector and PZZ's enterprises have been de-monopolised. An analysis of Standing of
PZZ's Enterprises Following the Demonopolisation of PZZ was accomplished in August 1994,
providing basis for a programme of restructuring for these enterprises, subsequently prepared by
experts. Currently, privatisation of these enterprises is well advanced. Implementation of the
programme of restructuring and privatisation for the oil-processing industry, prepared by the
Ministry of Agriculture, is well advanced.
*  Among 13 regional branches of the Ministry of Privatisation, 11 branches set up units in charge of
agri-industries.
*  Legal provisions on the management of state property, privatisation and company management are
being prepared. The Ministry of Treasure is planned to be set up in the framework of the planned
reform of Polish central administration.
Objective:
Introduce accompanying measures of agricultural and industrial policy to facilitate the restructuring
process and ensure that restructuring results in effective competition on input and output markets.
Achievements:
*  The same trade and price policy framework has been adopted for the entire food sector. Prices are
formulated by the market. Identical policies, regardless the ownership status, are applied to import
tariffs and credit & tax preferences.
*  Numerous technical assistance projects have been carried out, started or prepared as regards the
restructuring of agri-food enterprises, institutions in charge of standardisation & consumer
protection, development of agricultural wholesale markets and commodity exchanges and
development of agri-food marketing. For more detailed information, see ASAL Quarterly Reports.
*  In 1995, the Anti-Monopoly Office prepared and published the antitrust guidelines for agri-food
industries.
Objective:
Adjust legislation for: (a) contacts; (b) brokers and commission agents; (c)
commodity exchanges for agricultural products and (d) arbitration procedures
Achievements:
*  The draft act on commodity exchanges & warehouses has been prepared to achieve the above
objective.
*  Two technical assistance Phare-funded projects have been prepared: (a)
*  legal framework for trade in agri-food products, (b) inter-professional sectorial organisations.
*  Introduction of warehouse receipts is being prepared.
Objective:
Ensure environmentally safe inputs use in agri-industries.



- 29 -
Achievements:
*  Since input & output subsidies to agricultural production were eliminated, there has been a drastic
reduction in the utilisation of fertilisers, pesticides and other chemical products. The noxious impact
of food-processing industries has diminished while budgetary resources allocated to the environment
protection increased. Environmental standards became more rigid.
*  ASAL-funded technical assistance project, entitled Environment Protection in the Food Industry, is
reaching its final phases.
*  Amendments of environmental provisions and accompanying implementation regulations are being
introduced. Poland has commenced alignment of its environmental legislation to EU and OECD
legislation.
Objective:
Rationalise institutions in charge of standardisation, safety, inspection and product certification.
Achievements:
*  Polish Centre for Testing and Certification (PCBC) has been set up. New orders and procedures has
been adopted for Polish Committee for Standardisation (PKN).
*  ASAL-funded technical assistance project regarding these issues is nearly accomplished. The
reorganisation of institutions will be carried out after the planned reform of central administration.
*  The process of adjustment of Polish norms to EU standards is being carried out.
Objective:
Develop marketing infrastructure and regulatory framework for fresh produce and livestock wholesale
markets.
Achievements:
*  The programme for development of agricultural wholesale markets and commodity exchanges, has
been adopted and carried out, together with, the World Bank. Some wholesale markets are already
operating, others are being started. The Warsaw Board of Trade commenced first transactions in
December 1995. Phare-funded technical assistance project is carried out to start up a Clearing House
for futures.
*  Provisions and standards as regards food safety, inspection and certification are being adopted to
Polish conditions.
C. Land Policy & Development of the Private Farmland Market
Objective:
Improve the rate of private farmland transactions.



- 30 -
Achievements:
*  Following amendments of the Civil Code, all limitations on size of private farms and other restrictive
measures as regards trade in farmland have been eliminated.
*  State-owned notary offices have been replaced by private notaries. All land transactions are
stipulated through fully private notary offices.
*  Following amendments of the Act on the Agricultural Property Agency of State Treasury (AWRSP)
and up-dating of regulations on farm land leasing, better conditions for purchase and lease of state-
owned farm land have been created. The majority of state-owned farmland subject to privatisation,
has been already leased. There are preferential loans for the purchase of state farmland.
*  Farmers who buy state farmland to establish new farms or extend their existing farms are entitled to
preferential loans to start up the agricultural production.
*  The computerisation of mortgage registers has been commenced. The Ministry of Justice is currently
negotiating the relevant loan with the World Bank.
*  In the framework of technical assistance projects, requested by the Ministry of Agriculture and
supported by the World Bank, a technical assistance project relating to the development of farmland
market in Poland was started in 1996 to conceive an information system for buyers and sellers,
providing them with information on current farmland offers as well as on legal, banking and
technical aspects of the transaction.
Objective:
Develop a framework for land capability assessment for fiscal and environmental purposes.
Achievements:
* New farmland classification tables and an instruction as how to classify farmland have been
prepared. In the framework of technical assistance, training for geodesic staff has been carried out.
Following inter-ministerial consultancies, new principles of farmland classification will be
introduced via a regulation by the Minister of Agriculture.
Objective:
Facilitate farmer early retirement and other socio-economic measures to improve farm viability.
Achievements:
*  A  system  for farmer early retirement has been introduced (Kasa Rolniczych Ubezpieczen
Spolecznych, Social Insurance for Farmers)
*  In the framework of ASAL technical assistance project, a training programme for rural leaders,
extension agents and micro-enterprises, is being carried out. The programme is aimed to support
transformation of rural areas.
Objective:
Improve and expand existing land consolidation programme



- 31 -
Achievements:
*  A programme for the consolidation of farmland till the year 2010 has been prepared. Due to
insufficient budgetary resources for the consolidation, the on-going consolidation embraces
approximately 30,000 hectares per year, instead of expected 100,000 hectares per year.
*  In the framework of ASAL-funded technical assistance project, started in
*  1996, farmland consolidation will be carried out in two selected locations,
*  typical for Polish conditions.
Objective:
Establish a modem cadastre programme; Improve land registration system
Achievements:
*  Having regard to available resources, land registers are being gradually computerised. Currently,
approximately 80% of land in Poland is registered with electronic means. This relates to the
descriptive part of the land registration. Computerisation of mapping is still at the very beginning. It
is currently subject to inter-ministerial negotiations.
*  In the framework of ASAL-funded technical assistance project, cartographic files are being prepared
for some pilot areas. The project, currently subject to negotiations with the Ministry of Finance and
the Ministry of Justice, is aimed to conceive a method for the entire territory of Poland.
Objective:
State farm privatisation and restructuring
Achievements:
-  The Agricultural Property Agency of the State Treasury (AWRSP) has been set up to restructure and
privatise state-owned farmland taken over from PGRs (state farms) and from the State Farmland
Fund (Pahstwowy Fundusz Zieml).
*  Till December 1995, the Minister of Agriculture and Voivods adopted 1667 decisions on liquidation
of PGRs.
*  1206 farms owned by the State Treasury have been privatised, their assets sold, leased, transferred as
non-reimbursable grants or shares in kind to newly created Commercial Code companies.
Objective:
Separation of social assets from state farms from state farm productive assets
Achievements:
*  Social assets of ex-PGRs are being privatised.
*  The relevant legislation has been amended since 1994, in order to facilitate sale transactions.
*  Till late March 1996, AWRSP took over 328,656 apartments administered by ex-PGRs. 183,425
apartments (56%) have been already sold to private individuals.



- 32 -
Objective:
Clarification of legal issues surrounding re-privatisation claims
Achievements:
* Several drafts have been prepared and submitted to the Parliament in order to regulate issues relating
to the re-privatisation of holdings, the State took over illegitimately in the years 1945-1962. None
has been promulgated. AWRSP does not sell (or transfer as a non-reimbursable grant) any real estate
subject to any legitimate claims. The Agency has created some real estate reserves to meet its future
re-privatisation obligations.
D. Institutional Framework for the Development of the Rural Market Economy
Objective:
Provide support from Central Government to local self-governments efforts
Achievements:
*  ARiMR is liable for tasks of the Rural Development Fund as prescribed under ASAL Negotiation
Protocol.
*  ARiMR, starting from 1994, has supported the development of water supply, sewage systems &
telephone network in rural areas. Starting from 1995, the Agency has also supported the development
of rural micro enterprises and the development of agricultural wholesale markets. For more detailed
information, see items 10-12 above. Additional budgetary resources have been activated for the
generation of employment and professional training.
Objective:
Develop a more cost effective approach for the development of basic infrastructure (water, sewage,
telephone) with the participation of state, gminas and local inhabitants, enterprises, foundations and
banks.
Achievements:
*  A system of that kind has been created. The rate of development of technical infrastructure in rural
areas is several times higher than before 1990.
*  Having established a direct connection to local communities and other institutions, ARiMR has
created a reliable data base on rural infrastructure.
Objective:
Promote a new approach to local development and land use planning consistent with of a market
economy after testing it in eight pilot gminas; Promote self-employment and creation of micro-
enterprises in rural areas.



- 33 -
Achievements:
*  Development programmes have been prepared (with active participation of local communities) for
ten pilot gminas, financed with aid funds (USA and Phare). The programmes are under
implementation and the relevant methodology is disseminated via workshops for self-governments of
surrounding gminas.
*  Starting from 1995, ARiMR has been supporting the creation and development of micro-enterprises
in rural areas (see item 11)
*  In the framework of technical assistance, a training programme for rural leaders, extension agents
and rural entrepreneurs from the pilot gminas (and also from other gminas interested in the
generation of new jobs) has been carried out for two years.
E. Reform of Agricultural Education, Research & Extension
Objective:
Restructure agricultural education to meet the needs of village conditions and farmers in a market
economy
Achievements:
-  Some powers regarding the management of agricultural education have been delegated from central
administration to the regional level.
-  Multiprofile education has been introduced to agricultural schools.
*  Centres for Practical Agricultural Education, as well as a programme for the restructuring of the
Centre for Professional Training of Agricultural Teachers, have been conceived.
-  Agricultural schools and educational farms are being equipped.
Objective:
Improve agricultural research at the national level. Develop a national agricultural research strategy and
related priorities. Establish an effective procedure for financing and evaluating agricultural research
programmes and connect these procedures to agricultural programmes.
Achievements:
*  Under the Committee for Scientific Research (KBN), a team has been set up in charge of the
evaluation and selection of research programmes in the domain of agriculture and forestry (Inter-
Ministerial Team for Agricultural and Forestry Sciences)
*  The applied research is carried out on contractual basis.
*  A restructuring programme for agricultural research-development units have been prepared. The
program now is in its organisationai phase.
*  Polish agricultural sciences are being linked to the European agricultural research-development
system.
*  An informational programme on agricultural research-development activities, SIBROL, has been
conceived. Currently, the programme is under implementation.



- 34 -
Objective:
Develop an effective national extension co-ordination and monitoring mechanism in the Ministry of
Agriculture. Establish national extension goals which are recognised by all extension staff. Establish a
national programme for training and equipping extension to meet modem farming needs
Achievements:
*  The Polish-American Extension Programme was implemented for 5 years (till early 1995). The
Programme help extension staff change extension methods, develop agricultural information &
agricultural accountancy systems, strengthens co-operation with agricultural schools and research
development units. Under the Programme, ODRs were provided with technical assistance, equipped
with computers, poligraphic devices and vehicles. The extension methodology is being modified.
*  In order to establish links between extension centres and research development units, a system has
been set up to inform extension staff on research-development activities. A unified agricultural
accountancy system is being prepared by a team set up by the Minister of Agriculture.
*  A computerised network, POLPAC, has been installed to link the Ministry of Agriculture and ODRs.
The network embraces 51 agricultural extension units all over Poland. A data base is being prepared
on regional extension programmes .
Objective:
All staff and institutions of the agricultural information system should be aware of, and working within,
the same policy framework
Achievements:
*  In the framework of a Phare project, experts contracted by DORPOL prepared a concrete
development strategy for agricultural education, research-development and agricultural extension,
including the flow information between these sectors.
*  An informational programme on agricultural research-development activities (SIBROL), WAN
network, computer networks and E-mail are being developed. The entire system creates better access
to information and facilitates the information flow. Research priorities are set up by the Inter-
Ministerial Team for Agricultural and Forestry Sciences.
F. Public Investment Programme for Agriculture
Objective:
Improve public investments in agriculture
Achievements:
* Allocating budgetary resources, the Ministry of Finance incorporate criteria submitted by the
Ministry of Agriculture (prepared in 1992 and up-dated each year). Procedures as regards allocation
of funds to individual voivodships (regions) have been agreed upon between the Ministry of Finance,
the Ministry of Agriculture, other ministries and the regions themselves.



- 35 -
*  Starting from 1994, investment decisions, including those relating to rural areas, are adopted by
regional administration bodies.
*  A team established under the Ministry of Agriculture, is in charge of the monitoring and assessment
of investment pertaining to the land reclamation, water supply, sewage systems, dumping grounds,
and since 1996, also local roads. The team will obtain technical assistance in the framework of a
technical assistance project.
*  Public procurement system has been set up.
G. Reorganisation of the Ministry of Agriculture & Related Agencies
Objective:
Adapt organisation of the Ministry of Agriculture and related agencies to needs
of market economy, including:
a) Improved Government capability in agricultural policy analysis and formulation;
b) Agricultural price and market information services; and
c) Capability to handle rural development issues
Achievements:
-  The first stage of the restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture, aimed at its adjustment to needs of
market economy, was accomplished in April 1994. The following new departments have been set up:
(a) Department of European Integration and Co-ordination of Foreign Aid, (b) Agricultural Market
Department, (c) Department of Agricultural Processing and Ownership Transformation of Agri-Food
Industries, (d) Department of Agricultural Production. The restructuring will proceed to the second
stage when the planned central administration reform is adopted by the Government and the
Parliament (late 1996).
*  ARiMR supports the development of rural infrastructure, generation of new jobs in rural areas and
development of agricultural market institutions. Some intervention activities have been delegated
from the Ministry of Agriculture to ARiMR.
*  Market Analyses Team has been set up in the framework of a Polish-American programme for
market research (ERS). The Team, financed with budgetary resources, is becoming self-reliable.
*  Agricultural Policy Analyses Unit, set up in October 1993, supports the Ministry of Agriculture in
the domain of analyses, indispensable for policy formulation.
*  Agricultural Integration Office has been set up under FAPA to support the Ministry of Agriculture in
the domain of agricultural integration into the European Union.
*  Foreign Agricultural Markets Monitoring Unit was set up in July 1995. The Unit carries out
monitoring of demand and supply in major agri-food markets to meet needs of the Ministry of
Agriculture and other interested parties.
*  The Ministry of Agriculture, supported by the Polish-American Programme for Market Information
and Standardisation, has created a system of information on agri-food prices. Since the third quarter
of 1995, the bulletin with current prices of fruit & vegetables and commodity exchange prices, is
published twice a week. Further development, including indispensable legal amendments, is planned
in relation to the information on commodity exchanges.
* POLPAC, a computerised network embracing the Ministry of Agriculture and ODRs, is being
extended to the commodity exchange in Poznan. Prices from all commodity exchanges will be



- 36 -
collected via the commodity exchange in Poznan. Telecommunication server has been installed in
the Ministry of Agriculture.
* The Decree of 28 March 1995 by the Council of Ministers set up the SubCommittee for the Regional
Policy and Development of Rural Areas. The Sub-Committee supports the Government in the
domain of, i.e., multifunctional development and structural transformation of rural areas, aims to
increase the efficiency of regional policies via co-operation with the European Union, as well as co-
operation between regions and within border zones.
VI. ASSESSMENT OF THE LOAN
21.   The Loan has favourably affected the development of Polish economy and agriculture. ASAL
contributed to the formulation of Polish agricultural policy and generated a significant growth of
investments in rural infrastructure and in agricultural markets. At the same time, it stimulated the
development of entrepreneurship and multifunctional development of rural areas. Furnishing funds for
the construction of sewage treatment plants, ASAL has also contributed to the environment protection.
Having regard to the future integration of Polish agriculture into the European Union, it should be
emphasised that ASAL inspired the on-going transformation of the institutional and legal framework,
facilitating the integration process.
Allocation of ASAL funds to the development of water supply systems, sewage systems and telephone
networks in rural areas stimulated activeness of local self-governments during first years of their
existence. Local inhabitants have begun to believe that they should have their share in the local
development. The input provided by ASAL generated a multiple growth of technical infrastructure
investments in rural areas. Above 50% of gminas in Poland were authorised to apply for assistance
under ASAL. The Agency for the Restructuring and Modemisation of Agriculture worked out new
principles for the co-financing of infrastructure investments according to the type of gmina, in order to
compensate big disproportions between gminas in Poland as regards their technical infrastructure.
ASAL-funding made local communities collect funds for investments although, in constant terms, their
incomes kept declining during last years.
22.   New principles for the preparation and implementation of structural projects have been
introduced to gminas together with ASAL-funding (business-plans, various sources of financing, etc.).
Considering that Poland is approaching the full membership in the European Union, these experiences
will be very useful for the future access to EU structural funds.
23.   Due to obligations resulting from the Loan Agreement, the Government of Poland had to focus
on the Medium Term Sector Adjustment Programme, and hence, dedicated considerable attention and
resources to its implementation, making all possible efforts to reach the outcomes which had been agreed
upon. Consequently, the progress has been that significant.
The majority of actions commenced under ASAL is still continued. Master Plan for the Development of
Wholesale Markets of Agricultural Products could be quoted here as an example: Currently, a Phare
project is providing support to the creation of a Clearing House, while, in order to set up new legislative
framework, a draft law on commodity exchanges and warehouses is being prepared. The development of



- 37 -
wholesale markets and commodity exchanges facilitates stabilisation of agricultural prices and a gradual
reduction of ARR's interventions.
Development programmes for pilot gminas, and the programme for promotion of small enterprises in
rural areas, could also be an example of follow-up activities. Workshops and training courses are
continued for representatives of local self governments, rural leaders and extension agents, including
training on regional & multifunctional development of rural areas.
ASAL projects relating to the food quality control, development of the market for farmland, agricultural
education, support to agricultural organisations, etc. are also followed in the framework of market
oriented transformation of Polish economy and the integration of Polish agriculture into the European
Union.
24     Implementation of the Medium Term Sector Adjustment Programme has been supported with
numerous Phare projects. Experience and expertise provided by the Foundation of Assistance
Programmes for Agriculture (FAPA), set up to manage Phare projects for the agricultural and rural sector
in Poland, contributed to the efficient implementation of technical assistance projects carried out under
MTSAP. Twelve (among 33) projects have been co-financed by Phare and have benefited from technical
assistance provided by EU experts. Assistance of EU Member States to Polish agricultural and rural
sector is being continued in the framework of the Phare Multiannual Plan for the years 1995 -1999.
25.    Significant assistance has been provided under bilateral agreements with the United Kingdom,
France, the Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland, USA and others.
We would like to emphasise the importance of assistance provided by the British Agricultural
Development Fund (ADF). Following arrangements between the Govemment of Poland and the
Government of the United Kingdom (October 1st, 1991), ADF financed technical assistance provided by
British consultants working with local experts under ASAL technical assistance projects. British
assistance provided to the Ministry of Agriculture in the establishment of a professional unit for analyses
of agricultural policy (operating as the Policy Analyses Unit since September 1993), as well as training
for its staff, has been of particular efficiency. Moreover, ADF financed the operational audit of ARR. In
the framework of ADF-funded project Qualify Management in the Dairy Sector, quality assurance
systems, in accordance with ISO-9000, will be created in several pilot dairies. Follow up projects relating
to the educational programme Agricultural Marketing and the technical assistance project Environment
Protection in the Food Industry, are being carried out. The co-operation comprises also other technical
assistance projects (not co-financed under ASAL) aimed to facilitate market-oriented transformation of
Polish agriculture and the future integration of Poland into the European Union. Funds granted by USA
financed technical assistance provided by Polish experts working under ASAL projects. Administration
of ASAP Office have also been financed with these funds. USA input in the framework of Polish-
American Extension Programme, Economic Research Service as well as Market Information and
Standardisation Programme has been of great assistance. Progress achieved in these important areas
thanks to USA assistance is notable.



- 38 -
VII. ASSESSMENT OF THE WORLD BANK'S PERFORMANCE
26.   Generally speaking, co-operation with the World Bank has been satisfactory. This regards both
the preparatory phase and the phase of disbursement, although conditions accompanying ASAL could
qualify this Loan for the Guinness Book of Records. Actions prescribed under the Loan Agreement were
most helpful to the transformation process but some of them were simply impossible to complete during
such a short period of time (3 years). This generated some implementation problems and the 15-month
delay of the last tranche release, slowing down the investment rate and creating additional costs (WB's
fees).
Conditions prescribed under ASAL Agreement could have been limited to several key issues, e.g.
privatisation, development of agricultural market institutions and generation of non-farming jobs in rural
areas.
The World Bank's emphasis on the full liberalisation of the agricultural market in Poland generated
extensive imports of agri-food products from EU Member States (which apply widespread intervention
mechanisms). This was one of additional reasons for the recession in Polish agriculture (the main one
was the decrease in demand). Long term results can be observed until now.
We would like to express our favourable opinion on the clear allocation of ASAL and the emphasis on
clear principles of ASAL-funding. Thus, ASAL has guaranteed the continue process of support to rural
technical infrastructure, generation of new jobs in rural areas and development of agricultural wholes
sale markets.
The Borrower was obligated to present invoices regarding imports of goods and services for the total
value corresponding to the value of subsequent tranches of the Loan. It turned out to be quite difficult
and restrictive. Since 1991 (when private entities got authorised to carry out imports and exports of
goods) importers have not been interested in such reporting. The collecting of import documents caused
delays and additional costs. Statistical data on the dynamic development of imports should have been
accepted for this purpose.
27.   Commitment fees should not be calculated on the face value of the loan, provided it is disbursed
in tranches (since the beginning of ASAL negotiations, it was known that the Loan will be disbursed in
tranches). Additional charges should have been calculated exclusively in the event of delays due to the
Borrower.
28.   We would like to express our favourable opinion regarding reports prepared by WB's experts,
e.g., on animal production in Poland, agri-food processing, farmland market, etc. These reports, as well
as exchange of information with WB's Missions, have been an important source of information &
inspiration.



-39 -
VIII. ASSESSMENT OF THE BORROWER
29.   Applying for ASAL, the Borrower intended to meet complex needs of rural areas and to improve
the balance of budget. In order to obtain the Loan and, subsequently, to be able to utilise ASAL
resources, the Borrower had to create new organisational and legal framework for investments planned
under the Programme. Arrangements regarding the establishment of a separate Rural Development Fund,
prescribed under the Negotiation Protocol, have been revoked (as requested by the Borrower and
approved by the Bank). Tasks foreseen for the Fund were taken over by the Agency for the Restructuring
and Modernisation of Agriculture (ARiMR), established by the Act of 29 December 1993. ARiMR
created a special team in charge of ASAL, a separate accounting for ASAL resources and a system for
the co-financing of investments embraced by the Programme. The Agency started the co-financing of
water supply, sewage and telephone investments in the middle of 1994 and the co-financing of micro-
enterprises in rural areas and agricultural wholesale markets in 1995.
Each year, the State - via the Budgetary Act - proceeded to allocation of ASAL resources to ARiMR. The
Ministry of Finance was gradually releasing these funds in accordance with ARiMR's contracting needs.
The co-financing of investments by ARiMR was subject to settled and well-known procedures.
30.   The system of co-operation between ARiMR and local self-governments, banks, companies and
private individuals, as well as ARiMR's data base on rural infrastructure, give rise to the future role of
the Agency in the structural financing of rural areas, including future WB loans and EU structural
schemes.
31.   Modern institutions, like Policy Analyses Unit, Foreign Agricultural Markets Monitoring Unit,
Market Analyses Unit, Polish Centre for Testing and Certification, have been created. Some others,
including the Ministry of Agriculture, have been restructured. However, the progress achieved in relation
to the standardisation, norms, development of agricultural research and extension, has been minor.
32.   The Programme implementation required co-operation between various ministries and agencies.
Sometimes, especially as regards privatisation of agrifood industries, this co-operation was not
satisfactory.
The role of the Inter-Ministerial Co-ordination Committee has been very limited (mostly due to the
rotation of staff in member institutions). Co-ordination tasks were taken over by the Ministry of
Agriculture and ASAP Office. The successful monitoring of actions undertaken under the Programme is
owned to the direct working co-operation between ASAP Office and institutions in charge of the
Programme (Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Privatisation, Anti-Monopoly
Office, Agricultural Market Agency, Agency for the Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture,
Agricultural Property Agency of State Treasury) rather than to the Committee.
33.   The Technical Assistance Co-ordination Unit (ASAP Office) has been very useful for the
accomplishment of ASAL objectives. Monitoring of numerous actions prescribed under the Programme
(78), implementation of ASAL technical assistance projects (33) and disbursement of ASAL resources,
would not have been possible without this Unit and the active support by the Management of the
Ministry of Agriculture.
The hyper-activeness of ASAP Office in relation to the development of pilot gminas which led to take
over some ARiMR's tasks, was criticised by some WB's experts. We do not agree with this opinion. At



- 40 -
that time, ARiMR as a brand new institution, facing wide range of current issues related to the co-
financing of investments, could not take proper care of complicated development programmes for pilot
gminas. Professional consulting companies contracted by ASAP Office (in co-operation with ARiMR)
prepared strategies and development plans for pilot gminas (in strict co-operation with representatives of
each gmina) and provided ARiMR with outcomes of their work. ARiMR has benefited from this
material, especially in relation to micro-enterprises.
RL
m:\pol\asal\compress\icrcomp2.doc
printed: 04/02197 11:56 AM



POLAND: AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Implementation Completion Report: Part III
(Annexes)
LIST OF ANNEXES:
1. Poland at a Glance
2. Poland: Evolution of Agroincentives Policies
3. Summary of Assessments
4. Related Bank Credits
5. Project Timetable
6. Loan Disbursement: Estimated and Actual
7. Key Indicators for project Implementation
8. Project Financing
9. Studies Included in the Project
10. Status of Legal Covenants in Loan Agreement
11. Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
12. Use of Bank Resources
13. ARMA's Program of Rural Infrastructure



Annex I
Poland at a glance
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Central niddle-
Poland     Asia  Incona       Devolopmam diamond
Popubtion mid-1995 (milons)                         38.6       488    1,154
GNP per capita 1995 (USS)                          2,800     2,240    1,700                Lfe expectancy
GNP 1995 (billions US$)                            107.9    1,093    1,962
Average annual growth, 1990-06
Population (%)                                       0.3       0.4      1.4     GNP                              Gross
Labor fore (%)                                       0.5       0.6      1.8     pe                              pnnw
Most recent estinmat (latest year avalable since 1989)                          capita                       enrolmnent
Poverty: headcount index (% olpopulation)             24
Urban population (X oftotalpopulation)                65        66      56
Uf expectancy at birth (yeoS)                         72        68      67
Infant mortality (per 1,t0 Jive birts)                14        23      36               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition ( of chiwren undew 5)
Access to safe water (% ofpopulation)                 -  _              78
Ililteracy (% ofpopubation age 15)                                                        Poland
Gross primary enrollment (X dschooi-age population)   97        97      104                P od
Male                                                97        97     105                 Lower-niddleincome group
Ferale                                              97        97     101
KEY ECONOMC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1966      1994    1996
Econom    tios
GDP (billions US$)                            ..    71.1      92.6   117.7
Gross domestic investmerttGDP                       27.7      15.9    17.0              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and non-factor services/GWP         18.2     24.0    27.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                          29.0      16.9    18.6
Gross natonal savingslGDP                           26.5      16.7    18.2
Current account balanceJGDP                          -1.7     -1.0    -1.8                      fe                  n
Interest payments/GOP                                2.1       1.2      2.0     Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                       46.9     45.5    36.2
Total debt service/exports                           17.1     15.8    16.9
Present value of debt/GOP                                     36.1
Present value of debt/exports                                171.1                          Indebtedness
1975-84  1986-6    1904       1906  1996-04
(average annual growth)                                                             -     Poland
GDP                                          1.1      5.2      7.0      4.7
GNP per capita                               1.2      3.6      8.3      4.1               Lower-middhncomegroup
Exports of goods and nfa                     7.4    13.1      25.8      9.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1971    1986      1904    1996        oth IooutpuandInveent I}
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                          14.5      7.0      7.3     30
Industry                                            51.0      42.6    44.0      Is
Manufacturing                                                36.2    37.6
Services                                             34.4     50.3    48.7      4     J -    \          r
Private consumption                                 61.8      64.3    63.2      -0
General government consumption                        9.2     18.8    18.2                     GDI   -*DP
Imports of goods and non-factor services.            16.9     23.0    26.3
197-6-4  1965-96     1994    1996
(aveage annual growth)                                                          Growth rate of expoort and Irnports %
Agriculture                                          -3.2    -15.1    11.6    3Q.A
Industry                                             -4.5      8.8    11.1
Manufacturng                                                 10.3    12.0      20.
Services                                              7.5      5.1      1.5     0.
Private consumption                                   2.9      3.8      4.5 S
General goverment consumption                         2.5      2.8      3.0          \92    n                   4    Is
Gross domestic investment                            -3.9      9.0    18.5      10
Imports of goods and non-factor services              7.9     11.3    26.5                   Eximrt   -mcoft
Gross national product                                1.5      5.4      8.3
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are misng, the diamond will
be incomplete



Annex I
Poland
PRICES and GOVERNNENT FINANCE
1976    1986      1994    1996       Inffon I%)
(X change)                                                                      som
Consumerpnces                               2.3    11.5       32.2    27.8    400
Implict GDP deflator                          -    16.7       28.4    27.0    200S                      _ \
200
Govemnm, ffnance at
(X of GDP)                                                                       o                             1 1
Current revenue                                               47.2    46.6              90   91   92   93   94   95
Current budget balance                                         -0.2     0 0              -    GoPdWf  --*-CI
Overall surplus/deficit                                       -2.0    -1.9
TRADE
(milions US$j                             1975    1986       1994    1996      Export and kuport levels (ml. US$)
Total exports (fob)                                         17,240   22,846     30o00
Other metals                                                1,057
Other metals                                                 267
Manufactures                                               11,695   15,879     20,00)
Total imports (cil)                                         21,569   29,337
Food                                                        1,876    2,333     10,000
Capital goods                                               6,226    8,676        o
Export pnce index (1990=100)                                    97      114           09  90  91  92  93  94  96
Import prce index (1990=100)                                    92      108                 o Exports   m I mpor
Terms of trade (1990=100)                                      105      106
BALANCEof PAYMENTS
1976    1986      1994    1996
(millions US$)                                                                  Cunent account balance to ODP rafto I%)
Exports of goods and non-factor services          11,778    19,050   26,068     f
Imports of goods and non-factor services      .   11,209    19,829   27,745
Resource balance                               .     569      -779   -1,677
Net factor income                             ..  -2,557    -1,347    -607      2
Net current transfers                                778     1,182      183
Current account balance,                                                        0
beforeofficialtransfers                     ..  -1,210      -944   -2,101    -2        90
Financing itens (net)                          .     974     3,478   11,705
Changes in net reserves                              236    -2,534   -9,604    -4
Reserves including gold (mill. US)             .   1,025     6,029   15,633
Conversion rate (locaU/US$)                   ..  1.5E-02      2.3      2.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1986      1994    1996
(millions US$)                                                                  Composltlon of total debt,1S99 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanrding and disbursed       698   33,307    42,160   42,636                        A
IBRD                                        0        0     1,816    2,067                   G  2
IDA                                         0        0         0       0             F    l011 2067 205  o)
Total debt service                          190    2,045     3,093    4,567           9689                 180
IBRD                                        0        0        88     152
IDA                                         0        0         0       0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             0        0     1,664    1,500
Official creditors                         -6      693       565    -113
Prvate creditors                          328    -193       -636     869                                  E
Foreign direct investment                   0       15     1,875    1,800                               29484
Portfolio equity                            0        0         5     200
WUx/d Bank program
Commitments                                 0        0       752        0      A- IBRD                    E - Boataral
Disbursements                               0        0       672     210       B-IDA    D-OthJermutiiateral  F-Private
Principal repayments                        0        0         0       19      C - IMF                   G - Short-term
Netflows                                    0        0       672     191
Interest payments                           0        0        88      133
Net transfers                               0        0       584      58
International Economics Department                                                                              10/7196
a. Govemment finance represents general government accounts.



Poland: Evolution of Agro-lncentives Policies                                                                   Annex 2
exchange rate
price policies                                      subsidies                                   policies                                     trade poicies
1989-1990: Producer and consumer agri-                 Presently, agric. producers                  Poland employs a managed                1989-1990:rapid liberalization, delicensing X/M,
food prices generally liberalized. Intemal             nearly exempt from income tax                float with monthly devaluation,         deregulation, removal NTBs/quotas, min. tariffs
markets deregulated and exposed to border              and land tax. In general, farm inputs        periodic adjustments, and               1991-1995:reintroduction of mixed interventions
price movements.                                       not subsidized directly (exceptions          intemal convertibility.                 eg. tariffs, M quotas and export bans
exist), though most inputs are exempt
1990: Agency for Agricultural Markets                  from VAT.                                    1995: Zloty redenominated.                           -1rade agreements/trade regime-
(ARR) established to "stabilize" basic                                                              Full Zloty convertibility               1992: Barter agreement, Russia, agri-foods for natural gas
agri-food mkts. and protect farmer incomes.            1992-1993: Agric. Restructuring              on current account transactions         3/1992: Interim Agreement with EU placed into effect
& Debt Rescheduling Fund                    introduced.                              12/1992: CEFTA Agreement signed
1992: Law on Minimum Prices put into                   (FRiOR) channeled preferential               -12/1995: mandatory FX conversion 1111993: multi-lateral agreement with EFTA came into effect
effect, provides producer support prices for           credits to food sector.                      abolished                               711995: taiff laws amended to conform with WTO bindings
bread grains and milk, to be negotiated                                                                                                     end 1995: agreement w. (i) CEFTA on agnc. trade liberaliza-
annually. Managed mainly through ARRs                  1/1994: FRiOR effectively replaced                                                   tion; (ii) EU on protection of processed agnc. products.
procurement/storage activities and import              by ARMA, as funding agency for                                                                         specific modificatfons
guarantees, prices in some sectors (eg. pork)          for preferential credits, and by                                                     -12/92- 6% surcharge applied, ban on feed ingredients
have generally been maintained higher than             banks as loan admin. agency(ies).                                                    -7/1993-new tarff system to harmonize w. EU system.
import or export price parities.                       Volume of credits with interest rate                                                 Tarffs on higher valued agri-foods raised substantially.
subsidies increased. Working capital                                                7% VAT applied at border for some products
1994: sugar support system introduced,                 loans channeled thru food processing                                                 -8/1993--import licenses reintroduced for dairy products.
modeled on EU's sugar regime of quotas,                and seed companies (which are main                                                   -6/1994-countervailing (variable) levies introduced per EU
minimum domestic selling prices and export             beneficiaries), not directly to farmers.                                             system. Applied to wide range of basic foods.
subsidies.                                                                                                                                  -1st half 1995-due poor 1994 harvest, zero rated quotas
1994: limestone subsidy increased,                                                  introduced for selected grains; tarffs suspended on other
1995: no significant change in intervention            end-user targeting introduced.                                                       staples and feed ingredients
system.Minimum  prices adjusted to reflect int'l                                                                                           -7/1995(i) variable levies replaced by increased tariffs,
price movements                                        1995: budgetary subsidies for prefer-                                                supplemented by tarff quotas. Effect is two-tiered tarff for
ential credits eroded slightly in real                                              affected products. (ii) Tariffs increased on "sensitive" goods
terms, though still amounted to 1 % of                                              not subj. to varable levies.(lii)Tariffs reduced on non-staples
total state budget. Set to fall marginally                                          accounting for 45% total agro-imports.(iv)schedule to reduce
in 1996. Export subsidies on pork to                                                protection processed products announced. As result, ave.
FSU offered in '95. Sugar X quota                                                   wgt'd tanff increased 3.9%. surcharge from '92 cut to 3%
(subsidized) for 96/97 to be less than                                              in 1996, to be abolished by end-96.
half 95/96 level.                          I



ANNEX 3
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Summary of Assessments
Not
A. Achievement of Objectives           Substantial   Partial   Negligible    applicable
Macro Policies
Sector Policies                                        i
Financial Objectives
Institutional Development                   i
Physical Objectives
Poverty Reduction                     _                V
Gender Issues                                        _
Other Social Objectives
Environmental Objectives                                          _
Public Sector Management              __ i_=__
Private Sector Development           |            _
Trade and Tariff Reform



Summary of Assessments (Continued)
B. Project Sustainability                    Likely         Unlikely       Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance                       Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
Identification
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal                                   ___
Supervision                                              __ X
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                   Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                                                                    _
Implementation 
Covenant Compliance   _X_______T__ _
Operation (if applicable)   X  X___|_i
E. Assessment of Outcome                     Highly
_  ______________________________________  Satisf actory   Satisfactory     Def icient
_      _~~~---



Annex 4
Related Bank Credits
Credit                  CreditlLoan                   Purpose                    Year of              Status
Title                    Number                                                Approval
Preceding Operations
1. Economic and Financial Sector Adjust-  L390 SpottthGoemn'EnepsanBak 13 Acie-Terjctasbnrtd
ment Loan                                            restructuring Program                                 as satisfactory throughout the project
i_34670   Support the creation of new private businesses,      Active - Extended 03i1996. Objec-
2.Private Enterprise Development; Financial          considered as the centerpiece for transformation of  1993  tive, Implementation  and  Project
Intermediary Loan                                    the Polish economy                                   Management have been rated unsat-
isfactory throughout the project life.
Other ratings satisfactory.
3.Structural Adjustment Loan               L32470   Support the Govemment's Economic Transformation   1991   Completed - Generally considered
Program                                              marginally satisfactory
4. Financial institutions Development; Sec-    L33410   Support the Govemment's financial sector develop-   1991   Active - Extended 03/96. Generally
tor Adjustment Loan                                  ment activities which is considered key in the Gov-  considered satisfactory in last super-
ernment's Economic Transformation Program            vision report.
5. Agriculture Development - Financial In-  L33430   Support of private farmers and promotion of private  1991   Completed - Implementation, TA
termediary Loan                                      sector activites in rural areas through restructuring  progress and project management
of rural cooperatives.                               have been unsatisfactory at times,
while other ratings were generally
satisfactory
6. Privatization & Restructuring           L33420   Support the Government in developing a large scale  1991   Active - With exception of unsatisfac-
Sector Adjustment Loan                               privatization program by assisting in the design of  tory ratings in implementation prog-
policies, the institutional framework and the restruc-  ress and Project Management per-
turing of private enterprises                       formance, the project has an overall
satisfactory rating



Annex5
Project Timetable
Date Planned           Date Actual/Latest       Task Manager
Steps in Project Cycle                                         Estimate 
Identification (Initiating Mem)                                       June 20, 1991        Rory C. O'Sullivan
Preparation                                                             15 Months         August Schumacher
Appraisal                                   June 26, 1991             July 24, 1991        August Schumacher
Letter of Development Policy                               _
Board                                       May 04,1993               May 04,1993         August Schumacher
Signing                                  September 08, 1993        September 08, 1993     August Schumacher
Effectiveness                             December 07, 1993        September 29, 1993     August Schumacher
1 st Tranche Release                      February 28, 1993        September 29, 1993     August Schumacher
2nd Tranche Release                       February 28, 1994          March 20, 1996         Richard Lacroix
3rd Tranche Release                                                   Apri 30,1996          Richard Lacroix
Credit Closing                                                       March 31, 1996         Richard Lacroix
1 Ewald Goetz from 06/1994 through 12/1995; Jean-Jacques Dethier shared responsibilities with August Schumacher.



Annex 6
Loan Disbursement
Estimated and Actual
FY93       FY94        FY95        Total
Appraisal Estimate              300.00
Actual Disbursement             100.00     100.00      99.6        299.6
Actual % of estimate            33.33%     33.33%      33.2%       99.86%
Date of final disbursement                                         04/30/1996
Annex 7
Key Indicators for Project Implementation
No Implementation Indicators were included in the President's report
Annex
Proiect Financing
Item               | Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest Estimate
(US $Mil. equivalent)     (US $Mil. equivalent)
IBRD                                    300.0                     299.6
TOTAL                          300.0                      299.6



Annex-9
Project Financing
Item                | Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
(US $Mil. equivalent)       (US $Mil. equivalent)
IBRD                            300.0                        299.6
TOTAL                 | 300.0                      | 299.6                      I



Annex 10
Status of Legal Covenants in Loan Agreement
<  * *---tranche review conditions need to be added--- * **>
Section      Covenant         Present      Fulfillment      Date                  Description of Covenant                 Comments
Type          Status        Original       Actual
3.01       2                 C            Continuous                  Requires borrower to conform to standard commercial
and financial practices and commits to support to
implementation agencies
3.02       2                 C            Continuous                  Requires borrower to submit a plan for reduction of
payments to external creditors and establishment of
possible Implementation Agreement
3.03 (a)    5                C            Continuous                  Borrower and bank shall exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the program
303 (b)    9                C             Continuous                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank reports on progress
achieved in carrying out the Program
3.04       3                C             Continuous                  Procurement guidelines
3.05       3                C             Continuous                  Guidelines for employment of consultants to strengthen
agencies involved in the implementation.
3.06       1                C             Continuous                  Have records and accounts audited and fumish them,
and other information to the Bank upon request.
Covenants tyMes:                                 7=lnvoluntary resettlement                        Presnt Status:
1 =Accounts/audits                               8=lndigenous people                                      C = Covenant complied with
2=Financial performance/rev. generation from beneficiaries  9=Monitoring, review and reporting            CD= Complied w. after delay
3=Flow and utilization of project funds          10=Proj. implementation not covered by categories 1-9    CP= Complied w. partially
4=Counterpart funding                            11 =Sector or cross-sector budgetary or other resource allocation  NC= Not complied with
5=Mgt. aspects of the project or executing agency  12= Sector or cross-sector policy/regulatoryAinstitutional action
6=Environmental covenants                        13=Other



Annex 11
Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stage of            Planned            Actual
Project Cycle       Weeks   US$ (000) Weeks   US$ (000)
Preparation to Appraisal  0.00    0.00   108.30   326.60
Appraisal                0.00     0.00    67.10   217.00
Negotiations through
Board Approval           0.00     0.00    98.80   324.50
Supervision            117.90   295.70   127.20   479.00
Completion              12.00    33.60      8.00    41.60
Total                   -        -        409.40  1,388.70
These costs do not include travel expenses or non-labor costs



Annex 12
Use of Bank Resources
Stage of Project cycle         Month\Year Number of Days in Specialized  Performance Rating    Types of Problems
persons   Field   Staff Skills    Implementation Development
represented           status objectives
Through Appraisal                      01191 - 06/91    13        -    EC,FA,Cons
Appraisal through Board Approval       06/91 - 05/93    7         -    EC,FA,Cons
Board Approval through Effectivenesse   05/93 - 09/93   -         -    EC,LEG,Cons        NR          NR
Supervision                            09/93 - 03/96    - 29     - 50    EC, Cons          S           S
Completion                             03/96 - 10/96    3         15     EC, Cons          S           S
Key to specialized staff skills
EC = economist
FA = financial analyst
LEG = legal
CONS = consultant



Annex 13: ARMA's Program of Rural Infrastructure
In the earlier referenced consulting study (Paprot et. al.) a regional analysis was made of the
ARMA supported program. Chart 1 shows the regions defined accordingly. The subsequent table
shows a summary of the program's performance in 1995.
Rural Infrastructure Development
Chart 1: Regions selected for the analysis
NORtTH REGION    _
cEr WEST REOKS
OUWTT0 MEOW"
CENTRA NtEGION
Table: Structure of ARMA supported investments in 1995, by region (values in '000 PLN)
I          Water                   Waste Disposal       I        Telephones
Region        # of proj.  investm.  ARMA    # of proj.  investm. I ARMA   I of proj. I investm.  ARMA
North           50    14,028      22%        24     12,131    34%        9       1,930     22%ie
Center-West     so    20,715      22%        23     12,598    34%        16      7,023     20%/.
North-East      148    50,248     30%        17     13,667    33%        13      3,644     22%
Center          193    57,476     27%        26     14,101    37%        28      12,637    23%
South-West      61    22,950      24%        24     20,049    31%        3        265      24%
South-East      113    51,366     29%        60     44,256    35%        32      10,740    23%
Total/Avge. |  645    216,783 | 27%         174    116,801 1 34%   1  101   l 36,240 J 22%
Source: Parot, e al. Rural Infrastnruure Devekment - Assessmeint of ARMA Activitr Warsaw Sept 1998
(a acmatnTs mr  to The Wo*d Sank)
Three regions, south-east, center and north-east were responsible for 68% of all projects, 70% of
all investments and 72% of all ARMA subsidies. Major reasons for this concentration were: (i)
undeveloped water and sewage systems in the north-east and the south-east, (ii) better organized
communities in eastern and central Poland and (iii) low rate of urbanization in the north-east,
center and south-east (support is available for rural areas only)



I









IMAGING
Report No.:         16431
Type:      ICR



