Documat of
The World Bank
FOR OmCL USE ONLY
Ak! S500 - 90
Rqeo No. P-5685-POL
REPORT AND RECOlMMETION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMET
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTM   LOAN
IN Al AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$300 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND
DEC KER 31 1992
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.:P- 5685-POL    Type:  (PR)
Title:  AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
Author: SCHUMACHER. A.
Ext.:33567 Roomn:H110J31 Dept.:EM4AI
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performuce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disosd without World Bank authorization.



CURECY EQUfflV, L,ENN
Currency Unit - Zloty (ZI)
AV-3AQ1 EXCHANGE RATES
(Zlotys per US$)
1987         128    1212 190   1991       1992 fest.)
US$1 = Zi   175   265   430   4,000  9,500  11,200   13,559
mao  AND MEASURM
Metric System
ABBREVIATIN AND ACRONYMS
AMO   -  Anti-Monopoly Office
ARR    -  Agency for Agricultural Markets
ASAL - Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
AWR   -  Agricultre Property Agency
CIS    -  Commonwealth of Independent States
CMEA - Counci1 for Mutual Economic Assistance
EBRD - European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC     -  European Community
EFF    -  Extended Fund Facility
ETP - Economic Transformation Program
GATT  -  General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP   -  Gross Domestic Product
IDA    -  Inutrial Development Agency
IFC    -  International Finance Corporation
IFI    -  Iternational Financial lIstitte
IMF    -  inteational Monetary Fund
KERM - Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers
MAFE - Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy
MIGA - Multilateral Investment Guaranee Agency
MoF   -  Ministry of Finance
MoP   -  Ministry of Privadzation
MTSAP - Medium-Term Sector Adjustment Program
NBP   -  Nadonal Bank of Poland
PHARE -  Poland-Hungy Assistance Recovery in Europe
RDF   -  Rural Development Fund
SIO    -  Subsector Interprofessional Organization
SOE    -  State-owned Enterprise
TA     -  Technical Assistance
USDA - United States Department of Agriculture
POLAND - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLy
REPUBUC OF POLAND
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
CONTENTS
LWAN AND PROGRAM SUMMMRY ........................... ,i-i
IINrRODUCTION                                                                     .
PARTL BACKGROUND ... .1
A.ReceMnMacr.conomicandPolitical Dvdopments             . . .
B. Reform Agenda for Polan and Govaerment's Action  3an.                   .3
C. Medium-m Prospet  nd Extea Financing Requien .s          .       .               S
D. Cediworhines and Bank Exposure Idicat  ............................6 
E. Bank tance Stra    . ............ 6
1. PastandFutAssistance ............  6
2. Composion and Quality of Bank Portfolio ............  8
PART IL AGRICULTURE AND THE RURAL ECONOMY ............                                10
A. Rources and instu ............. 10
B. Economic Poteta and Key Facors Consrining Grow  ............                    12
PART IL TIE GOVERNMNTrS MEDIUM-TERM SECTOR ADJUSTMNT
PROGRAM .... ....... 16
A. oducon .               .............                                            16
B. Objecdves and Components of the Program  ...    ...........  16
1. Macroeconomic Frmework for Agriculture ............                       17
a. Price Policy ............ 17
b. Agriculural Trade Policy .............                              19
c. Credit Policy for Agriculture ............                          20
2. StruturaReforms ............                                              21
a. Privatization and Restucturing of Stateowned Agicultura
Markeig and Processing E pses ...........       .                21
b. LadPolicy ............                                              24
c. Prvatzation and Restruchtring of State Farms and of State
owned and .............. 25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authori2tion j



3. Istituonal Rorms and bsttton-BuUdng Measures                              .... 26
a. Enling Environment for the Agrictur  Marketing and
ProcessingSector ...        .............................. 26
b. Developme toftheRmal MarketEonomy .... 28
c. Financng Rural fifatuctre ...         .       .......................... 29
d. Support Services for Private Famers (Resch, Extenion
and Education) .......................................           . .   0
e. Resbuctwing of the Minstry of AgrictuWe and Food
Economy ......................................... 31
f. The Public Invwesn  Progrm for the Agricultural Sector ............ 32
PART IV.  TBE PROPOSED LOAN  .........                  ..........................   32
A. Loan AmountandUseofFunds ....................................  32
B. LoanObjectivesandScope  ........................................  33
C. Prw ement, Disbursements, Accounts, Auditing and Supe sion ...............  36
D. LoanConditions ..............................................  37
E.Coonatlon menonand Monitorng ..............................                           38
F. TechnicalAssistanceProgram ........................                                  40
G. Program lmpact, Benefits and Risks .........................  41
PART V.  COLLABORATION WTH MF AND D)NOR AGENCIES ............. 43
A. nteatonaMonetary Fund  .......................................  43
B. EuropeanComunnity ............................................ 44
C. OtherDonors .44
PART VL   RECOMMENDATION ...................................... 44
ANNEX
ANNEX1. MacroeconomicIndicators ................................... 45
ANNEX2. LetterofSectorPolicy ...................................   55
ANNEX 3. Policy  atrices ...................................                            71
ANNEX4. Supplementary Loan Data Sheet .81... 81
ANNEX S. StatusofBankGroupOperaons inPoland ........................ 83
ANNEX6. ListofDocumenuinProjectFile .............................. 85
MAP
IBRD 22595R3 (folowing page 87)
SUPPORTING VOLUMES (avaflable upon request)
Tehnical Assistae Program
Technical Papers
Volume I.  Agridculra Price and Trade Policy, and Agdcultural Budget
Volume H. Ihe Agricultural Marketing and Processing Sector
Volume m. Rural Development
Volume IV. Land Policy, and Privaization and Restructuring of State Fams
Volume V. The Agricultural Research, Extension and Education System



R;0PUBLIC OF POLAND
AGRICuLTuRE SEcroR ABlpuSTwN LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUARY
Borrower.       Republic of Poland
Execut
Agencies:     Miistry of Agrculture and Food Economy, Ministry of Fince, Miistry
of Privatzaton, Agriculture Property Agency, Agency for Agricultural
Amount:         US$300 million
Terms:          Seventeen years maurity with a five year grace period. Loan proceeds will
be lent to the Government at the standard Bank variable inters rate
Project
Obective:   The Loan would support the medium-term seator adjustment prgam
QMfSAP) being undertaken by the Government of Poland. It is part of the
contiuing strategy of the World Bank to support the overall Economic
Tansfomation Program. The Loan is designed to support implementation
of policy actions over a period of 18 months. These policy actions are
incuded in the tee-year MTSAP developed by the Govement in
collaboration with the Bank.
PIoect
Derpton:   The Medium-Term Sector Adjustment Program redefines the naure and role
of Govement in relation to the agricultuil sector and suports adjustment
toward a competitive market-onented economy. To address the consaints
impeding the adjustment of the sector, the MTSAP contains monitorable
actons to achieve three sets of complementary objectives:
(a) Maintain an appropriat mroeconomfrewox nc
(i) Maintain an apprpride price, subsidy and trade poliqy
environment for producers, traders and consumers
(ii) Ensure hat the implemention of the program is con_sst
with the budgetary limits of the Eoanomic Transformation
Program
(b) Carry out urgent suctur rjooms:
(i) Acceleate the privaton and restucturing of stte-owned
enterpises in the agriulual markting and processing sector
(ii) Accelerate the privatizaon and restructing of state farms and
sttowned land



(iii) Formlate a long-term land policy to develop and facilitate the
expansion of the private market for farmland
(c) Implement instWonal rfomns and lnsttwon-bwld1ng measures:
(i) Improve the enabling envinm t for private sector develop-
ment in the agricltal marketing and prosing sector
(ii) Create a new institutional framework for the development of
the rural market economy
(iii) Reorganize support services provided to private farmers
(research, extension and education)
(iv) Improve the administation of the sector and restucture the
Ministry of Agriculture
(v) Improve project selection and evaluation and management of
public investment in the agricultural sector.
l bursements: The loan would be made available in two tranches of $150 million. Proceeds
of the loan will be used to finance: (a) the CIF cost of general imports of
goods and services, excluding goods and services financed by other
multiLaeral and bilateral agencies, luxury goods, military equipment and
other goods speificaly prohibited and (b) services for priority technical
assistance (US$10 million). The first tranche would become available upon
Ian effectiveness, exected in February 1993 and the second tanche,
expted   in February 1994 upon compliance with second tranche rlease
The Project has been reviewed by the Regional Environment ivision and
has bee given an environmental screening C" rating.
Sched    of
Bank Fscal Year
FY93    FY94
(US$ Milon)
Disbursement           100       200
Cumuative              100       300



REPORT AND RECOMMDAT1ON OF THE PRESIIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUT DITECTORS
ON A PROPOSED AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$300 MILUON
TO THE REPUBLIC OF POLAD
INTRODUCIION
1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to the Government
of Poland for the equivalent of US$300 million in support of a reform program for the
agrcultural sector. The loan wiU have a term of 17 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
2.    In tems of percentage of both GDP and population, Poland has the largest agricultural
sector of all the Central and astern European countries. The proposed Project would support
the Medium-Term 1993 and 1994 Sector Adjustment Program (hMSAP) undertaken by the
Govenment of Poland; this Loan is part of the continuing strategy of the World Bank to support
the overall Economic Transformation Program. The MTSAP has its origin in a suategy
developed jointly by the Polish Government, the World Bank and the Euopean Community.
A Joint Task Force formulated a strategy for the agricultural sector and published its findings
in a report, entitled An Agricuural Strategyfor Poland, submitted to the Council of Ministers
in July 1990. Key recommendations of the report were endorsed by the then Council of
Minsters. subsequently published in a document entitled Principes of Agricultural Policy
OZao a Polityld Rohoej). There followed a hiats caused by the uncerin politcal situation
in Poland. Subsequent governments however, mcluding the present government which took
office in May 1992, have reaffirmed their commitment to this basic strategy. The present
govenment has formally endorsed the MTSAP which is based on that strategy.
3.    The Loan is designed to support implementation of a series of interelated agriculual
policy reforms over an initial period of 18 months. The Medium-Term Sector Adjustment
Program aims at redefining the nture and role to be played by the Government in agriculue
and at helping Poland adjust from a command economy to a market-oriented economy in
agriculture.
PART L BACKGROUND
A. RECENT MACROECONOMIC AND POurICAL DzVELOPMEMn
4.    After two very difficult years, economic conditions in Poland improved markedly in
1992. Were it not for the effects of the :erious drought which has affected all of Central Europe
(and which led to crop losses as high as 25 percent), and for cutbacls in some public services,
1992 would have been a year of recovery for Poland. Overall output is now likely to be on the
same level as in 1991, the result of a sharp increase in indusrial output and in construction that
compensated for the loss of agricultural output. This stabilization of output in 1992 sharply



- 2 -
contrasts with output losses of 12 and 7 pent, rpectively, in 1990 and 1991. At the same
time, progress has been made in seeing the economy away from the high inflation of the late
1980s. Average annual inflation has gradually declined from almost 600 percent in 1990 to 70
percent in 1991, down to the current 45 percent. After incurring important reserve losses in
1991, Poland's external perfonce has Impoved considerably since the beginning of 1992.
In the first eight months of the year, a trade surplus of over US$1 billion allowed the country
to strengthen its reserve position, currently at about 5 months of imports.
5.    These signs of recovery are encouraging and open up prowspects of sustained growth in
1993 and beyond. But they do mask a sharp differential between the supply resonse in the
pnvate and state-owned enterprise (SOE) sectors. The private sector has provided the main
engine of transformation and growth in the economy. First concentrated in trade and commerce,
private sector activity has more recently axended to industry and constuction. In agiculture,
which had remained largely private even under the soialist regime, the response to the
liberalization of prices in 1989 was qute favorable.  Despite overl adver  economic
conditions, the sector provided a cushion of stability in 1990 and 1991, in contrast to the shap
alls in industrial production. As discussed in Part II, the ful potential of agriculiur is as yet
nrized, and good pospects edst for substantial productivity incrdses in the medium term.
6.    By contrast, the SOE sector, which stdl produces about three-quarters of value added
in industry, has had great difficulties in adjusting to the new economic conditions. Extr
shock (notably the demise of the USSR and CMEA tading arrangements), as well as the effects
of the abolition of the extensive system of subsidies, particularly on energy, contributed
significanty to the fall in industrial output and overal production in 1990 and 1991. The effects
of the recession, however, were compounded by inter  management problems in the SOBs,
whose pforance detiorated substantially in these two years. The unsatisctoy performance
of large enterpises is at the core of the oubles exeieced both in public finauce and in the
banking sctor, since these enterises were the largest taxpayers and the largest borrowers from
the banking system. On the fiscal side, the SOE cris has fueled a rapid increa  in
unemployment benefits and social assstance outlays and shrunk the Government's tax base. As
a result, the pubLc sector accouts went into a deficit of 6 percent of GDP in 1991 after a
surplus in 1990. Despite the incipient recovery in industria output, and a recent set of fiscal
measres, 1992's deficit is epected to reach 7 percent of GDP, as compared to the 5 percent
initally projected. In the banking sector, the SOB cdsis has reslted in a sharp deterioration
of the quality of the loan portfolio of the sate-owned commercial banks (SOCBs).
7.    Despite the apparent end of the recession, the social uation remains relaively tense.
After rapidly inceasing to 12 percent of the labor force through 1990 and 1991, unmployment
stabilized somewhat in 1992, largely as a result of better output performance in industry. It now
stands at 13.5 percent of the Labor force. Unemployment coud increase substantially over the
coming months, however, as a result of the expected rg  or liquidation of SOBs. Tbis
could lead to increases in the number of the poor as restcturing takes place, and to widening
regional differences in poverty due to the "one company town" naure of past induswtdal
developmet, thus making the maintenance of a viable social safety net an absolute priority for
the GovenmeLn



- 3 -
8.    Parallel to the signs of economic recovery in 1992, there are some positve changes on
the poltical front. TIe begnning of the democratic transition was difficult. While Poland was
one of the firfs counties tp underta   the trandtion to demoacy, the arngements that led to
the political changes created an unstable situaion. Parliament enjoyed litde public support, and
the new politica class soon begn to splinter, sometimes along personal Lines. The Mazowiecli
and Bielecld govemments anaged to engineer the cowurageous reforms of 1990 and to maintain
reasonably good overal macroeconomic conditions. Starting from mid-1991, however, the
Bielecki government was unable to introduce and pass tbrough Parliament several important
economic and political reforms. Agreement on and execution of policies became even more
difficult as a result of the political instability that followed the October 1991 pariamentary
elecidons. Having chosen a purely proporttonal reresentation system, Poland found itself with
a Parliament splintered among 29 parties, with no clear coalition or majority in sight.
9.    It took two governments and several months of virtual political paralysis before a centrst
coaition cold be fonned under the leadership of Premier Hama Suchocka in July 1992,
averting the risk of a constitutional crisis. Although the coalition is far from being unified on
a number of very important issues, it has so far managed to survive important tests. The most
important was the wave of strikes that took place in August 1992. Mrs. Suchocka's Government
has also endorsed and worked in earnest on several crucial pieces of legislaion necessary for
the execution of its reform agenda particularly the Enrprise and Bank Restrturing Law, the
multi-track privaizationmpogram, and the interim measures needed to stabifize the budget). The
challenges of Poland's reform agenda disussed in the next section can now be addressd by a
Govemment that stands a reasonable chance of providing the needed leadership and contnuity
of purpose.
B. RzFORM AGENDA FOR POLAND AND GovERwr's ACTION PLAN
10.   In general terms, the two-pronged strategy outlined in the Country Economic
Memorandum1I remains fundamentally valid. Flrst, macoeconomic policies must continue to
provide a stable economic environment, and Poland's extemal position must be strengthened
through the compledon of an agreement with commercial btnk creditors. Second, decisive
atons must be taken to stimulate the supply response of the economy. After years of
stgation, Poland must start growing again.
11.   Successfdul and lasting supply response means developing the prvate sector as the main
engine of growth in the economy. The Government can facilitate new entry and accelerate the
imaplementation of its multi-track privatzain program; it can also contribute to this goal by
removing the legal and regulatory impediments and uncertainties that may stifle private
investment in a number of areas (energy production and distribution, telecommunications,
transportaion, etc.). While development of the new private sector is the key to success in the
medium term, restoring the viability of the banldng sector and containing the itatning crisis
in large sepments of the SOE sector is a strategc and immediate priority for economic recovery
,/  A comple diacuion of macoeconomic issues in a medium4erm perwoodve is available in the Country Economic
Memorandum Poland - Economdc 7huqib,madon at a Croroads, circulated to the Board on May 29, 992.



- 4 -
and growth. An integrated program of reforms to change the structre of governance in the
SOE sector, to retucue and privadze SOEs, and to resru , moderize and privatize the
public banking sector (the Enterprise and Banling Restcturing and Privatization Program,
EBRP) is now addressing the problems of arge public enteiprises and public ban. A World
Bank loan is epected to be shortly submitted for consideradon by the Board in support of ths
critical program.
12.    Further reform promises a high payoff in agriculture, as discussed in detail in Part Il
of this document. Seventy-five percent of Poand's farm land is under private ownership,
although farm sizes are less tan opimal. The surviving state farms need to be retcted and
where possible, privatzed. Most agro-processng industries are still in state hands and opert
at high costs and low levels of efficiency. Since the products of agro-industries can be imported
freely, consumer prices for these products are anchored to world market prices so that the costs
of ineencies in the domestc processing sector are shifted upstream to Poland's private
farmers, thus contributing direcdy to deessed rural incomes (para. 57). In addition, extension
and resch support is inadequate, and institutional reforms, already underway, need to be
accelerated. These reform priorities are at the core of the program supported by this loan.
13.   In addition, the Government should address the reform of the social safety net to make
socal spending more effective, better targeted to the poor and vulnerable groups, and consistent
wnth budget constaints. Only through profound reform in these expenditure programs will the
resources be found to increase public investment to meet the infrastucure and human capital
requirements of Poland for the rest of the decade.
14.   The Government of Mrs. Suchocka has given clear indications that it shares the refbrm
agenda outlined above. It has submitted to Parliament a 1993 budget that would bnng the public
sector deficit to 5.5 percent of GDP. Based on this package, and on specific targets concerning
monetary policy, wages, and exchange rate policy, the Government has now initialled a Letter
of Intent with the IMP for a Stand-by arrangement covering the period extending to the end of
1993. The Stand-by has been approved by Fund management, and will be considered by the
IMP board in mid-January.
15.   The Government has also moved ahead with a number of legislative measur  that are
critical to the Economic Transformation Program. It has submitted to Parliament an Enterpise
and Bank Restructuring Law that lays the foundation for a joint solution to the SOE and baning
sector problems. It has also submitted to Parliament legislation to support the multi-track
privatization program. It has taken the initiative to genere support from social pares for its
program of enterprise rstrctning and privatization, through negotiadng a pact with trade
unions that contains provisions for collective barg   and for workers' representation the
boards of retcured enteipnses. Finally, it has started a process of reform of public
administration, including exendiure control, civil service reform, and decentrlization.



- 5-
C. ME1Ml-TgM  PROSpCS AND EXrRNAL FiNANCiNG REQuREMDrI5
16.    Table 1 below summarizes the main economic indicators, including histoiical data for
the 1990-92 period, the 1993 outlook and the medium-term prospects for 1994-97, as the
beginnig of a most likely "modert success' scenario for the latter half of the decade.
Table 1: MaIn Economic Indieators
1994-1997
1990     1991      1992    1993 2  Avetag 2
Growth Raes (%)
Gross Domestic Product                 -11.9     -7.6       0.1       3.0       4.4
Public Sector Output                 -19.0    -26.0    -10.0        -         -
Private Sector Oultput'               7.0      33.0      12.0       -         -
Pdivate Conmumption per Capita        -16.9       7.5      -3.3       3.3       4.7
Fixed Capitd Formation                -10.6      -4.5       4.0       3.0       3.9
Inflation (Avetge)                    585.8      70.3      45.6      32.6       9.8
Unemployment (end of period)            6.3      11.8      13.9      14.8
Total Eports XGNPS 3                   15.1    -13.6        5.3       2.6       4.5
Total imports MGNFS 3                  -10.2     16.0      -5.0       6.0       5.1
Exports. (US$ Bn) 4                    10.9      12.8      14.1      15.0      17.9
mports, ([JS$ Blin) 4                   8.6      12.7      13.1      14.4      17.3
TmWde B ce (US$ Bln) '                 2.2       0.1       1.0      0.7       0.5
Real Echage Rate (1989=100)            80.8    126.6    136.0    134.1    132.8
Percent of GDP
Curent Account                          1.0      -1.1       0.6       0.3     -0.5
Of Which: Non-Interest Current Account  6.4      0.8       2.4      1.6       1.1
Change m Net Int'l Resves (US$ Bin)     -4.4      1.3      -1.1       0.0      -0.9
Gross Reserves (Months of Imports)      6.2       4.7       5.5       5.7       6.0
Fiscal hdicators: (percent of GDP)
Total Revenues                       45.8      36.6      35.3      36.5      37.4
Total Expenditures                   42.9      40.3      42.3      42.1      40.3
Surplus/Deficit(-)                    2.9      -3.7      -7.0      -5.6      -2.9
1/ Includes composition effects
21 Projected
3/ Volume gvowth of all Goods and Non-Factor Service Trade
4/ Value of transaons in convertible currencies
17.    Growth, Pubc Finances, and Stabizadon. After three years of output decines and
assuming the successful implementation of the Government's action plan, GDP growth is
expected to resume at some 3 percent, and could accelerate gradually to reach a 5 percent annual



-6-
average by the end of the ded (see macmecmomic projecdons in Annex 1). Initally, a
modest swing in net epos, and an increa  in fixed capital formation would provide the spur
for higher growth.  In subsequent yea, private consumption growth would contribute
imporantly to overall demand, as the economy stabilizes. By 1994, the overall Government
deficit would be reduced to some 3 percent of GDP (from the 7 percent now expected for 1992).
If this new fiscal target is achieved, it would be accompanied by a gadual reducton in the
demand for domestic credit by the Government.
18.   Takdng into account the planned accumulation of inteanal reserves, and the
amization of existing debt, etenmal finaning needs would decline under this scenario from
about 3 percent of GDP in 1992 to about 2 pect on average in 1994-1997. With direct
foreign investment projected to grow modestly over the period, most of the financing would
oiginate from the May 1991 Paris Club agreement and from the expected DDSR for the London
Club. A reasonable build-up of new lending from bilateral sources and Internationa Financial
Institutions (MIIs) is also assumed, amounting to 1.0 percent of GDP on average during 1994-97.
19.   The scenario asumes continuation of Bank lending at cuffent levels of about US$800
million per year (excluding exceptonal DDSR financing), or about 10 percent of total financing
for the decade. Other IPIs are also exped to incese their exposure (pardcularly the EfRD).
The IMP is not expected to extend new purchases after the middle of the decade, as recovery
and stabilizaion take hold.
D. CRDJWORTNESS Am BAK EXosuR  INDICAToitS
20.   The economic performance enviaed under this scenario would go a long way towards
strenghening Poland's creditworthiness for new lending. Total medium- and long-term debt
would drop to about US$43 billion by 1994; it then rises slightly, to about US$47 billion, by
2000. Given Poland's projected growth path, the debt1GDP ratio would fall from 78 pernt
in 1990 to about 41 percent by 1995 and 30 percent by 2000. Debt service as a share of GDP
and exports would likewise stabilize at about 3.6 and 15.5 pcnt, respectively by 1995, when
full Pans Club svicing takes effe. Payments to the Bank would rise from 0.2 percent of
exorts in 1992 to 2.9 percent in 2000, accounting for about one fifth of total payments due.
These ratios are fully consstent with existng guidelines for Bank exposure.
E. BAN  ASsTsNCE STRATWGY
1. Past and Future Assstance
21.   Poland rejoined the Bank in 1986, but lending resumed only in early 1990, in support
of the Economic Transformation Program. As part of this support, the Bank also opened a
Resident Mission in Warsaw in mid-1990. Responding to the broad-based nature of the ETP,
the Bank has committed a sizeable lending program (a tota of US$2.6 billion) aimed at
achieving five basic objectives: (a) to secure a stable macroeconomic framework, and to further
strengthen Poland's underlying creditworthiness; (b) to support entepriwse reform and
restructuring, privatization and the growth of the private sector; (c) to upgrade the country's
infrstructure (mcluding financial secor infrastructure) in ways that would support a market



-7-
economy; (d) to enhance envirnmental amelioration in all setors of economic activity; and (e)
to support the strgthening of Poland's social safety net in order to help the country sustain the
sociai impact of its systemic transfonnation. Lending was inidtally concentrated in fast-
disburing or hybrid opeations, directly in support of inital reform measures (commitments in
tbis category amounted to US$1.12 billion equivalent, or 43 percent of total), and in financial
interediion lines (US$520 million equivalt, or 20 percent of total). The ovrall program
was relatively intensive in technical assistance (TA), both through up-stream stategy papers
(Agriculture, Health, Housing) and significant TA components embodied in the loans.
22.   Given the ewxperience gained in the first phase of the Bank's assistance program, the
objectives of the Polish reform agenda and expectations of the Government's ability to meet
these objectives, the Bank's assistance strategy for PY93-95 will emphasize several
complementary and mutually reinforcing objectives. PFi,r, the Bank will continue to work for
better iplementaon of exsting projects. Second, it will strive to continue to provide donor
leadership and integrate donor contribution into a coherent country assistance strategy. Third,
the Bank's new lending program will be based on a four-pronged stategy:
(a) The Bank will directly support adjustment programs that complement the IB
progam by strengthening broad setoral policies and setoral perfo e leading
from stabilization to self-sustained growth. The proposed Agricdulture Sector
Adjustment Loan is intended to support such adjustments in a key sector of the
economy. The Bank also plans to support (i) an Enterprise and Financial Sector
Adjustment Loean (EFSAL). This would be the cornstone of the effort to obtain
a joint solution to the enterprise and commercial bans' problems that is crucial to
restoring sustainable growth; (i) public administration adjustment, through a Public
Administaon Strural Adjustment Loan (PASAL) under prepation; and (iii)
a debt and debt service reduction operato  (DDSR) that would complete the
resntctrng of Poland's extenal obligations.
(b) The Bank would also like to support reform in those areas of economic activity that
will remain the domain of the state, and where reform and institutional build-up are
necessary conditions for success of the Government's  aeconomic program.
These include support in the area of roads and rural inrastructure, and support for
reform in the social sectors, in particular in education.
(c) The Bank can contribute to investment and rehailiton of infrastrcu  with
private sector participation. It will be important to establish the appopriate
reguatory environment, which can then contribute to attracting non-govment
resources. The Bank will seek ways to mobilize non-budgetary resources through
direct involvement of private sector opaors, in partiular in cogeneration
privatization and in telecommunications and water supply and sewerage.
(d) In addition, in specific subsectors such as steel, heavy chemicals, coal, shipyards,
and energy, including the downstream petroleum sector, the Bank has an important
role to play as an agent of adjustment through technical assistance in the formulation
of enteprise regructrng plans and lending to support restrctring and adjustment



costs. This involvement can also be an important means of encouraging expanded
pnvate ownership in these sectors and in improving environmental impact.
23.   Rok of IFCIMIGA. IFC launched its first opertion in early 1989 and continues to be
quite acttve in the country. Its activities have focused on providing advisory services, supporting
foreign direct investnent in the aea of enterprise privatization and restructuring, and developing
capital markets. IFC has helped struture some large privatization investments by supporting
joint venture activity, providing financing on its own account, and helping mobilize commercial
financing. It has also opened a line of credit for export development. IFC and the EBRD have
jointly established the Polish Business Advisory Service, to assist small- and medium-sized
enterprises to develop investment projects and secure financing for their implementation. In the
financial sector, IFC was the match-maker of the twi.ining arrangements concluded between
Polish and Western banks, providing loan financing to selected banks, and helping establish a
new bank with western banks as equity partners. MIGA also has important work, as Poland
holds significant, unexploited prospects for foreign direct investment, which has only recently
taken off following the reduction of political uncertainties.
24.   Relations with other IFIs and Bilateral Agencies. The Bank has played and will contnue
to play a pivotal role in the mobilization of technical assistance resources through the technical
asistance program of the EC (PHARE), the British Know How Fund, and other donors.
Coordnation of technical assistance and maximizing the impact of these programs remains a
challenge for aU donors. A major effort is this respect has been made in the case of the proposed
loa.
25.   The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) began its operations
in Poland in Apri 1990, focusing initially on three main areas:  (i) privatzaon and
restructuing of SOEs, and support to private enterprises; (ii) promotion of financial institutions
and retail banking; and (im) environmental rehabilitation and environmentally onented enery
programs. Apart from technical assistance and financial support in the above areas, EBRD also
en ges cofinancing with the Bank in telecommunications, energy and transport. Over the last
18 months, EBRD has committed roughly US$500 million equivalent in Poland, fully observing
its mandate for lending 60 percent of its portfolio to the private sector, and the remainder to the
public sector.
2. Composiion and Qualt  of Bank Portfolio
26.   Composion of Lending. In the period to December 30, 1992, the World Bank has
committed 16 loans (of which one involved seven separate entities) to Poland for US$2.6 billion
equivalent (Annex 5). As of December 31, 1992, cumulative disbursements amounted to
US$704.98 million. Lending was initially concentrated in fast-disbursing or hybrid operations,
direcdy in support of initil reform measures (commitments in this category amounted to
US$1.12 billion equivalent, or 43 pent of total), and in financial intermediation lines (US$520
milion equivalent, or 20 percent of total). More recently, a number of investment operations
have been added to the portfolio; these are expected to become progressively more important
in our future lending.



-9 -
27.   Qualty of the Portfolio. Problems that are common to a rapidly-building portfolio in
a new member country have been experienced in Poland as well, particularly itl 1990-91.
However, considerable progress has been made on building counterat capacity, tailoring loan
design to overcome institutional weaknesses, and takdng appropriate remedial actions when
necessry. Ad#us#ment loans can be considered relatively successful, in view of the difficult
overall environment. In a number of operations, colaboration with the authorities has
continued, and proved fruitful, even during difficult transitional periods. Non-compliance with
policy covenants has been very limited, and the government on several occasions retoactively
complied with conditions that may have been missed, an indication of the high degree of
ownership of the reform programs supported by those operations. Operationally, difficulties were
initially encountered in setting up the required machinery for tranche disbursement, but an
intense effort of assistance from the Bank has resulted in significant progress, and the Polish
authorities are now in a position to take full advantage of balance-of-payments support when
needed.
28.   Ineu*sment loan execution has been somewhat more problematic, although remaining
broadly in line with standard Bank profiles. Financial intennediary loans have targeted specific
activities, such as export development and agribusiness, as well as general investment activity.
For these operations, disbursements have fallen short of our estimates, with the exception of
those specifically targeting agribusiness. This was due, initially, to the depressed demand for
investment financing following the contraction of economic activity. In addition, banking
intermediaris did not always meet Bank requirements, and borrowers were unwilling to follow
Bank procurement guidelines, turning instead to other available credit lines with less stringent
requirements. However, the considerable financing requirements of the enterprise restructurings
to be undertaken in the framework of the EFSAL are expected to lead to a substantial pick-up
in disbursements of existing credit lines, while the restructuring of the banks should strengthen
their ability to act as effective intrmediaries. In addition, proposed changes to the kind of
financing admissible (to include permanent working capital) and to the procedures required for
approval of subprojects, are also expected to lead to higher ulization of credit lines from the
emerging private sector. Project lending has had a slow start, hampered by a lack of
institutional ability. This essentially resulted from difficulties in staffing project implementation
units, a Lack of counterpart funds, and complicated and changing legal requirements.
Nevertheless, in a number of key sectors (telecommunications, transportation, employment
services, etc.) project prearation and initial execution led to significant prgress in institution
building. More recently, a number of operations have been approved or are at an advanced
stage of preparation in the areas of infrastructure, housing, forestry, and human resources
development, where reform is difficult but the payoffs can be substantial. Careful preparation
and the experience gained on both sides in the past three years augur well for success in this new
phase of lending.



- 10-
PART H. AGRICULTTURE AND TEE RURAL ECONOMY 2
A. RESOURCES Am JNsUlTOmNs
29.   Agricture and the rral economy are important components of the national economy.
With some 15 milion inhabitants, rural Poland houses 40 percent of the total population and 36
percent of the people of productive age. This rurl population lives in 2,400 gminas
(communes) compnsing 42,000 villages, of which 82 percent have less than 500 inhabitants.
While the runal population has remained stable over the past 40 years, the are of farm
popuation has been deeasing. In 1991, about 41 percent of the rural wor ce worked
outside agriculture, compared wfit about 16 percent in 1950. On the other hand, part-time
faming has increased and, in 1991, only 20 percent of farm families derived their income
exclusively from faming, and 40 percent mainly fom fanning. The acute shortage of housing
in the cities is a major reason for the high percentage of the labor force residing in runal areas.
Of the ative population employed in agrculture, 85 percent work on private farms. Outside
agriculture, in 1991, only 8 percent worked in the private sector, although there is an additional
significant and growing percentage engaged in the informal private sector.
30.   The basic rual economy is relatively depressed, offering a quality of life that is
perceived to be poor, especially by young people. Village-level infru     (wat supply,
sewerage, telephones, schools, hospitals and other public facilities) is seidly deficient. The
rural population is older than the national average due to migration to urban areas. It is less
educated, has poorer health care, and is demogaphically rmbalanced, with a large surplus of
men over women. There are also regional differences in rural population density, with the
biggest cocentions occuring in the Center and the South. The economic behavior of the
frming population is cha       by risk minimizain and an ambivalent stance towards the
state. In the non-farm popuation, the prevalence of the public sector has stifled private iitiative
and reduced productvity.
31.   Agriculture and agricultre-related industries contribute about 20 percent of GDP.
Twenty-eight percent of the country's labor force is employed in agriculture alone. In terms of
exports, agricultural and food products accounted for 16 percent of merhan  ewport in 1991.
About 75 percent of agricultural land belongs to private farmers, who also produce about three-
quarters of the total agricultural output but only about 50 percent of marketed agricultral
production. The remainder is acounted for by state farms and coopaves. Approimately
58 percent of farmland is under cereals, 29 percent is under potatoes and forage crops and the
remaining 13 percent under sugar beets, rapeseed, fruits and vegetables and other crops.
32.   Crop yields are reively low compared with the potential in the country and with West
European levels, pwcularly for potatoes and sugar beet. Farming systems are dominated by
livestock production. At the end of 1991, Poland had about 8 million cattle, 22 million pigs,
and 3 to 4 million sheep. Two-thirds of the total land area is devoted to the production of
animal feed.
2/  Addii  bakground infomaton c be fon in te Polih/C/World Bank Tak Fo report, An Agriculow
Suaegyjbr Poland, published by te World Bank, December 1990.



- 11 -
33.   Land Tenure. Poland's pminant land tenure dcrctrsc is the abundance of small
private farms. The country has an agrcutural area of 18,300 km2 with 2,230 saot-owned farms 3
(on 4 million hectares), and 2.7 million pivate farms. Farm size averages 5.2 ha and 57
percent of all fam  (accounting for 21 percent of all agricultural land) are in units of less than
5 ha.
34.   Agroimnty. There are some 10,200 production units employing about 420,000 persons
in the food process  sector. State ownership in the food economy includes 1,400 of these food
procesing plants.  Th  remaining 8,800 plants are privately or coopertively owned.
Cooperaive enstrpre are domiant in the dairy industry and in fruit and vegetable processing.
Agroindustrial subsetors with predominant state ownership include processing and storage of
ceeals, feed, sugar, potato and starch, poultry and eggs, oilseeds, meat, fish, beer and spirits,
and cold storage. In 1991, the share of the food industry's contribution to GDP produced hv
the state-owned sector amounted to 62.3 percent; the share of cooperatives 14 percent; and the
private sector share 23.7 percent.
35.   Most stae-owned enteprises involved in processing and marketing agricultural products
are small and medium size (i.e., have less than 50 and 300 full-time employees, respectively).
Supervision powers for all k  agroindustial SOEs have been decentized to the voivodship
(provincial) level. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy is the founding body for
only 211 agroindustrial SOEs (mostly plant breeding stations, animal breeding  ons and
tcco enterpries) and the Ministry of Industry is the founding body for some important
industries producing agricultural inputs (fertilizer and agriculturl machfiny). The founding
body designates the state entity controlling and supervising the enterprise in the name of the
Stae Treasury.
36.   Mwarng. The wholesaling and retiling sector for agicultural and food products is
underdeveloped as the previous regime paid litde attention to the development of product
markets. Prion of inputs to private farmers and marketing of produce from the farm to the
fory is camed out maily by agricultural coopeatives which own an extensive network of
buying and selling points, transport and storage facilities. Private entrepreneurs are now
entering the sector at an accelerated pace. At the local (gpdna) level, small farmes' markets
have continued to be used to supply processng firms and cooperatives. Some farmers are
interested in evitalizing the network of wholesale markets for baic agncultur products, mainly
fresh produce and livestock, that was in operation before World War I.
37.   At the reil level, several thousand small businesses, formerly owned by the gminas and
supplying the local community with basic consumer products including food, have been or are
being privatized. In the large cities, street markets (offering in particular imported food
products) have emerged. Numerous private retil shops are also opening in cities. The state-
owned Foreign Trade Organizatons, now competing with private importers/exporters, have
plans to diverify their marketing activities and invest in the retail sector. However, supply to
tI  This number varies with the eat definidtn of a state fam ('kombiat' or ote) and is increaing as the breakup
of konbints In smaller utsf ocus



- 12 -
these shops has yet to be more efficiently orgaized to reduce markeing costs at the wholesae
level.
38.   Foreign trade in agicultural products, including procesed food, contributes significantly
to the country's economy. Exports traditionally have accounted for about 5 percent of total
agricultural production. During the 1980s, about 40 to 50 percent of agrictural exports were
live animals and livestock products, 35 to 45 percent crops and crop products and about 15
pecent fishery products. In 1990 the agricultural trade balance generated an export surplus of
US$1.3 billion compared with US$0.4 billion in 1989. Agricultural exports in that year
amounted to US$2.3 billion, representing an increase of 26 percent above exports during the
previous year, while agricultural imports declined by 28 percent to US$1.0 billion. However,
this positive agricultural trade balance deteriorated in 1991, with the export surplus falling back
to US$0.5 billion. Performance of the agricultural sector in contributing to a positive trade
balance has turned sharply negative in 1992 as the impact of the severe drought in 1992
manifests itself in increased agricultural imports estimated at US$500 million.
39.   The 1992 Drought. In 1992, a surprisingly severe drought set back Polish agriculture
production by 25 percent. The northwestem and western zones of Poland were particularly
impacted, with crop losses in feed crops amounting to some 50 percent. Harvested hay is down
30 percent, vegetables, 20 percent, and potatoes, aeseed, and wheat about 25 percent.
Harvested fruit, in contrast, was up 22 percent in 1991, primarily the apple crop. The total cost
to the economy was estimated at US$1.7 billion. Prices of basic foodstuffs, especially of wheat
and rye, rose to world market levels. Wheat and rye production dropped 4 million tons
compared to 1991. The Government will import in 1992193 an estimated 2.5 million tons of
grain, mainly wheat, for about US$300 million. Additional imports of feedgrains, oilmeal, beef
and vegetables are likely to raise the import cost of the drought to US$500 million. The drought
is also making it more difficult for the Government to reduce inflation. With food consumption
a significant part of the consumer market basket, prices of basic foodstuffs, bread, vegetables,
milk and beef rose 35 percent in the second of 1992 as a result of the drought.
B. EcoNOM[c POTENTnAL AND KEY FACTORS CONSMTAiG GROWTH
40.   In the medium term, there is considerable potential for improved performance in the best
agriculural areas, coverng some 75 percent of the land, through use of improved technology
and quality control. As the impact of the elimination of subsidies and the transmission of
international prices permeates through the sector, gradual changes in cropping patterns can be
expected as farmers move to increase labor productivity. Comparative studies indicate that
wheat, triticale, oilseeds and grain legumes can all be expeced to prosper while there will be
reductions in areas planted of sugar beet, potatoes and low-value grains. There will be new
opportunities in high-value vegetable production, and in fruits, berries, and flowers responding
to increased domestic demand and to capture a share of export markets. In the important
livestock subsector, pigs are presently more profitable than some dairy and beef enterprises,
balancing a decline in the more marginal dairy production systems. For all crops, but
paricularly for wheat, tnticale and grain legumes, there are important oppornities for
financially advantageous yield gains to increase labor productivity and improve farm incomes.
Major pportunities also exist for the introduction of more productive processing of most crops.



- 13 -
The potential for upgrading efficiency is particularly stikdng in part of the oilseed and sugar
industies where the introduction of new technology balanced with selective plant closures can
be epected.
41.   The pattern of changes in production will also be closely influenced by the evolution of
markets, particularly export markets. At present, however, the direction of foreign trade in
agricultural products that will emerge in the future is unknown. Agricultural trade with the
Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) colhapsed in 1990, although some good prospects
for barter exchanges between Poland, Russia, Belaus and the Ukraine for wheat and greenhouse
production have emerged in 1992. Poland has turned to western markets and concluded in late
1991 an Association Agreement with the EC, known as the Europe Agreement. Uncertainties
(and potentials) are offered by the GAIT Uruguay round discussions (para. 71). The
govemnment remains confident however that medium-term prospects are good and that Poland
will be able to negotiate advantageous arrangements with its neighbors.
42.   While a short-term increase in employment in agriculture may occur as the rest of the
economy adjusts to market conditions and sheds labor, in the medium and long term,
employment in the sector will undoubtedly fall as agricultural labor productivity increases with
the implementation of the MTSAP. There is, in contrast, considerable potential for employment
growth in the non-agricultural rural economy because of its present undeveloped state. The
more economic scenario would be for the smaller private farms to be consolidated into medium-
sized private farms of 20 to 50 ha. The emphasis on productivity and the elimination of
subsidies will cause farms on the most marginal lands to cease production altogether. However,
an altnative land use such as conversion to forestry can be envisaged for such lands. This
could affect some 10 to 15 percent of the land, predominantly in the state farm sector.
Reductions in employment in agriculture will be offset by employment growth in the rest of the
rural economy.
43.   On balance, the potential of agriculture and the rural economy indicates that these sectors
could make a significant contribution to economic recovery. Being largely pnvate, it is expected
that a quick supply response will come from agriculture as a result of the incentives created by
improved efficiency in marketing and processing, by a more active land market and by better
advice to private farmers. Food will be delivered to the cities at prices close to world prices and
in greater vaneties, and agriculture is also capable of increasing exports in response to a
favorable real exchange rate as the experience of 1990 shows (para. 38). Finally, during the
tansition peiod, agriculture could absorb some of the unemployed from industry and hold back
migration. Since about half of the private farm population is made up of part-time farmers
employed in nearby state-owned or cooperative industries, a more prosperous agricultural sector
and a more dynamic rural sector could provide some income to displaced workers who are not
mobile because of housing constraints.
44.   To achieve this potential, the productivity of private agriculture must be raised. This
will not be easy, because of several major constraints to improving productivity. Actions are
required in four major areas: (i) ensuring that the incentive framework gives the right
investment signals, (ii) increasing the efficiency of agricultural marketing and processing
industries; (Mii) inducing changes in the socio-structural characteristics of agriculture; and (iv)



- 14-
and revitalizing the rural economy. This, in turn, requires a redefinition of the role to be played
by the state in aiulture.
45.   The inceniv framework for the sector has been radically altered as a result of the
measures takn under the EIP. Guaranteed farmgate prices and input subsidies have been
eiminated and prices have been liberalized. While this has allowed budgetary savings, changes
in the farm terms of trade were highly unfavorable to farmers in 1990 and 1991. The key
problem is that, although famgate prices are no longer fixed and are allowed to fluctuate,
transmission of international prices to the farm level has been slow to take place because of
inefficiencies in marketing and procesg, which are largely controlled by state-owned
enteprises. In 1990, pnices of agricultural products rose fourfold but the cost of industral
imputs increased eightfold and retail pnces for consumer goods ended the year seven times higher
than their January levels. In 1991, prices of agricultural products increased on average by 30
percent while pnces of industrial products rose by 70 percent. Prices of many agrculural
products, especially wheat and rye, finally increased to world market levels only in 1992 as a
result of the extreme shortages caused by the drought.
46.   The low efiency of the agriculural marketing and processing industries is the first
constraint that needs to be addressed to improve the incentive framework. Installed processing
capacity for plants is genelly not a constraint, but the food industry is not adapted to the needs
of a market economy, particularly in terms of marketng services and product quality (to offer
greater vaneties of food products to domestic and foreign consumers). Opeating efficiency is
low and collusion and monopolistic practices are common. State enterprises responded to
liberalizan during the first years of the ETP by increasing margins rather than by reducing
costs through increased efficiency. Sectors such as agroindustry that had been sheltered from
the full effects of price libealizato  are only now feeling the full pressure for strucurl
adjustment.
47.   The private sector's response to the liberlizaton has been a flurry of small investmets,
particularly in meat processing, by farmers and other private individuals, contributing to a
decline in capacity utilizon in the large plants. The poor state of the food processing industry
represents a major constraint to the development of the agricultural sector.
48. Another big problem is that the small and highly fragmented private farms make it
difficult to introduce modern production technology and increase factor productivity. Land
consolidation efforts are hampered by the absence of a well functioning land market and by the
absence of a coordinated land policy. If agriculture is to be competitive, its socio-stnxwal
characteriscs need to change: farm size needs to increase and the age pyramid for farmers
should be younger. Small farms, contrary to what is commonly thought, are not likely to be
eliminated by current financial difficulties resulting from unfavorable terms of trade. They will
simply withdraw from the market and disappear only when their owners retire or die unless
measures are introduced to consoLidate land and increase farm size.
49.   The development of the rural economy is constrained by the weakness of the nwl
i*aucure. Only 29 percent of villages have running water, 5 percent sewerage and 8
percent telephones. The quality of the educational and health systems is also weker than in the



- 15 -
cities. The development of rural private micro-enterprises in services, handicrafts, cottage
industries and retail trade is constrained by the lack of financing and of financial and technical
adviory services. Since the refonn of local government finances has hardly started, there is a
dearfth of finance availe for local initiatives, particularly for infastructure. Gminas derive
revenues from local sources, including a property tax (16.7 percent of revenues in 1991) and an
agicultural tax (6.8 percent), from shared national taxes, and from block grants from the central
government. Local governments are exected to assume increasing public sector responsibilities
but significant uncertainties regarding their institutional and financial status make the success of
the reform dependent on a well designed and managed transition. In theory, gmhas could
continue to tax public enterprises but, as these enterprises adjust or go out of business, the
financing gap must be filled by the development of sustainable locally generated revenues and/or
increased block grants. Loca governments are only beginning to define the role that they can
play in developing the local economy. Durng the transition, local governments and especially
the resource-poor gmunas will find it difficult to finance investments. Even creditworthy gminas
cannot leverage their savings with borrowing because the domestic capital market is not
providing long-term development credit. Additional problems are that it is still too early to
predict what own-source and shared revenues local governments will receive, and financial
accounting and reporting systems with which financial institutions that can evaluate gmina
creditworthiness are not in place. Since it will take some time to put into place acceptable long-
term arrangements for finmcing, interim arrangements are reqUired.
50.   Finaly, the orgnization and staffing of the Ministry of Agricture and Food Economy
(MAFE) is not well adapted to the needs of a market economy. Restring of the eng
deartments and creation of new ones will be necessay in order to adequatly design and
implement the actions defined under the MTSAP. In particular, the MAFE lacks administrtive
capability for policy analysis, market information, pulibc investment budgeting and evaluation,
and coordia    of rural development policy. In addition, MAFE recognizs the need to
restrctu  its suppot services for farmers and to develop a system of public investment
pogramming adapted to a modern market economy.
51.   Suppot seruices Jor farmers (agricultural education, research and extension) are
fragmeted, infficient and poorly suited to the emerging needs of farming and rural
comnmunities. Critical problems of farm management, productive efficiency and suswinability
of farmng systems are not being tackled in a coherent manner. Problems such as environmental
impact of pesicides and land amelioration are not adequately addressed by the Government.
The feedback from private farmers through extension to agricultural research is particularly weak
and the research system is not fleible enough to respond to the new situation created by the
economic tansformation. Agricultural education is outdated and does not meet the needs of
agriculal producion systems in market economies.
52.   Thepublic inwesmentprogrmn for agriculture is not yet adapted to the needs of a market
economy and not well coordinated with the policy framework developed by the Govenmt.
The main areas recoving investment resources from the budget in 1991 were rural water supply,
land amelioraton (for which 80 percent of the capital budget for the voivodships are allocated),
agriculural education and agricultural research. The institutional capability to prepare public



- 16-
investment strategies, set priorities for investments to complement private sector economic
activity and to identify, prepare and evaluate public investments however is very weak.
PART M. THE GOVERNMENT'S MEDIUM-TERM
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. INTRODUCTION
53.   The Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) would support the reforms being
undertaken by the Government of Poland in the agricultural sector and would thus form part of
the contnuing strategy of the World Bank to support the Economic Transformation Program of
Poland. The ASAL is designed to support implementation over a period of 18 months of the
inital policy actions identified in the three-year Medium-Term Sector Adjustment Prograam
prepared by the Government. The objectives, means and actions of the MTSAP are described
in the Letter of Sector Policy in Annex 2 and the Policy Matrices in Annex 3.
54.   The preparation of the MTSAP has truly been a collaborative effort between the
Goverment of Poland and the World Bank. The preparation process has involved all key
ministries and agencies in the agncultural sector and benefitted from extensive discussions with
policy makers, helped by a group of 70 experts from Polish universities, government institutes
and the private sector. These Polish experts, organized in five working groups, bave prepared
technical papers to assist the Government in designing the MTSAP action progrms. The
working groups were assisted periodically by Bank staff and extenal consultants. The technical
papers prepared by these Polish specialists and used during the preparation of the MTSAP have
been collected into the suporting volmnes to this President's Report (see list in Annex 6).
Many of the recommendations of these specialists which are outlined in these volumes form the
basis of the MTSAP.
B. OBJECnvS AN  COMPONENTS OF TME PROGRAM
55.   The rational for the MTSAP rests on the premise that, while macroeonomic reforms
are necessary conditions to achieve significant improvements in the sector, they are not sufficient
to overcome struuml constraints and to develop a competitive, market-oriented economy in
agriculture and in rural areas. In order to address the constraints mentioned above (para. 44),
the MTSAP contains monitorable actions aimed at achieving three sets of complementary
objectives:
(a) Maintain an adequate macroeconomicframework for agriculture:
(i) Maintain an appropriate price, subsidy and trade policy environment for
producers, traders and consumers
(ii) Ensure that the implementation of the sector adjustment program is consistent
with the budgetary limits set by the Economic Transfornation Program



- 17-
(b) Cary out urgent smxctural reforms in the agricultural sector:
(i) Accelert the privatization and restructuring of state-owned enterprises in
the agricultural markeedng and processing sector
(ii) formulate a long-term land policy which will help develop the market for
farmland and facilitate land consolidation
(iii) Foster the privatization and restructuring of state farms and of state-owned
land
(c) Inplement instdnaonal reforms and insdution-bullding measures:
(i) improve the enabling environment for private sector development in the
agrcultural marketing and processing sector
(ii) create the institutional framework for the development of the rural market
economy and develop public works program in areas of high rural
unemployment;
(iii) reorganize support services provided to private farmers (research, extension
and education) to help them respond to the profitability criteria of a market
economy;
(iv) improve project selection/evaluation and public investment management in
the agricultural sector;
(v) improve the administration of the sector and restructue the Ministry of
Agriculure and Food Economy to enable it to fulfill its role in a market
economy.
56.   The insuments and action programs developed to achieve the objectives mentioned
above in each of those areas are described in detail in the following paragraphs.
1. Maroeconomic Framework for Agriculture
a PAce Policy
57.   Until 1989, Polish agriculture was subsidized through input subsidies, export subsidies
and low-interest credit. Guaranteed farmgate prices, fixed on a cost-plus basis, bore no relation
to intnational prices. An extensive system of consumer subsidies was in effect. Under the
ETP, food subsidies and guaranteed output pnces were eliminated and agncultural input
subsidies and export subsidies were sharply reduced. Distortionary price interventions by the
Government have vitually disappeared. Thus, prices of inputs and outputs have been essentially
freed. However, output pnces at the fann level have mostly remained well below world market
prices because of processing and marking inefficiencies in Poland. The result is that the cost
advantage that Polish farmers currently enjoy over their intenational competitors at the point
of production are largely offset by the high cost of the inefficiencies in marketing and
processing. This is why the MTSAP gives high priority to improving competition in processing
and marketing (para. 96-101).
58.   At a macroeconomic level, the overall objective of the Government under the MTSAP
is to continue to pursue the liberal agriculual prce policies adopted since early 1990 when the
ETP was launched. The Government aims to avoid subsidizing agricultural and food pries but



- 18 -
to maintain a limited capacity to intervene in markets to help stabilize prices through the Agency
for Agricultual Markets which is also charged with helping to develop private sector marketing
acvities. It is important that the activIties of this Agency be carded out in such a way that thtey
are budget neutral, and contribute to the objective of private market development.
59.   TheAgencyforAgrcuflrat Markets (Agenda RyM  Rolnego, ARR). The Govemment's
primary vehicle for affectng the course of prices on agricultural markets is the ARR. The
Agency was created in JuIe 1990. The law establishing ARR entrusted it with the task of
"stabilizing the farm products market and protecting farm incomes." The Agency is also
responsible for managing state food reserves and for helping develop domestic markets.
Resolution No. 94 of the Council of Ministers, which was passed in June 1991 (Monitor Podski
Nr. 21, Poz. 146) specifies the scope of operations of ARR.
60.   in 1990, the Agency introduced a grain purchasing contact system which could be the
basis of a systen of either minimum prices or forward contts depending on how the deferred
delivery contract's cancellation clause is administered. A number of farmers have benefitted
from this program. The Agency administered these contracts effectively as providing a
minimum price duing 1990-92 and now needs to pursue the forward contract system.
61.   The budget of ARR was about Z7 2.3 trillion in 1991 (US$210 million) of which about
one-half was used for mai1aining the state food reserves. Under the MISAP, ARR will improve
t of its operations while minimiing the distortionary impact that such an agency
coud have in markets and avoiding excessive budgetary costs.  Efficient management will
permit continued marketing activities without requiring a corresponding increase in budgetary
resources by relying on the euse of the budget resources alrady allocated to the Agency in
previous years. Substantial funds for intervention purposes have now been invested in the
Agency through previous budget transers so that the Government intends to reduce budgetary
allocations to the Agency for interventon purposes in 1993 and beyond.
62. ARR will also continue to support the development of agricultural trade during the
period of tanstion to a market economy by helping organize the domestic market and foteign
trade. The Anti-Monopoly Office will ensure the conformity of the activities of ARR with the
existing anti-monopoly legilation. In the long term, as the infrastructure of the market economy
and the pivate sector develop in Poland, the objective of the Government is to eliminate all
Goverment funding for direc or indirect market interventions in agriculture and to implement
all the advities of the Agency through the private sector.
63.   Over the medium term, ARR will be involved in four main functions and under the
MISAP they will be monitored to ensure consitency with the overall objective of the Program.
First, ARR will continue to manage state food resrves. Minimum and average levels of food
reserves to be hed by the Agency are agreed with  the Ministry of National Defence and
Ministry of Interio and set by the Prime Minister. The Agency will make every effort, under
the MTSAP, to minimize the costs of maintaining such reseves, mainly by using owmpetitive
bidding procedures for rights to store, maintain and deal in reserves. The Agency will seek to
be reimbursed for the full cost of maintaining and tuming over food reserves and for losses,
justified by technical or security reasons, fixed in advance and prmdssible.



- 19 -
64.   Second, the Agency will continue to intene in agricultural and food markets as it has
done from 1990 to 1992, when it intervened in cereals, pork and other makets such as butter,
wool and honey. The objedtve of these interventions was to partily stabilize prices, while
avoiding major budgetary ransfers from the government. Interventions will always be caried
out at prices which are lower than world market prices. The Agency will operate according to
commerci principles. To carry out interventions, the Agency will increasingly enter into
contracts with no immediate delivery involved, such as futures contas or delayed shipments.
65.   Third, ARR will provide support for private sector development and promote
competition through the deveent of market infrastructWe for agricultural products, such as
commodity exchanges, warehouse networks, market information centers and farmers markets.
This indirect form of intervention will be mainly accomplished through the provision of credit
guarantees to private sector investors.
66.   Finally, the Agency will carry out market assessments and forecasts of market prices for
basic agricutural products. Such activities are of general value to farmers and form the basis
for detemining intervention levels and prices. In preparing such foreasts, the Agency receives
amsistance from the Economic Research Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.
67. As in the past, the program of actions of the Agency will be adopted by the Agricultural
Market Agency Council and intervention prices for basic products will be approved by the
Council of Ministe. Pursuant to the law, the Agency will submit quarterly reports on its
operations to the Council of Ministers and will be audited annually by the Supreme Audit
Council (NK. These audited accounts, reflecting the separation of functions agreed with the
Bank, will be forwarded to the World Bank for its review annually.
b. Ag4dcal Tmhde Polcy
68.   Tariffs for agricultural and food products were significantly lowered in 1990 as part of
the ETP, together with most other products. Since then, the tariff structure was modified twice,
in April and in August 1991. In April tariffs were increased on milk and butter (to 30 percent),
meat products (20 percent), sugar (30 percent) and cereals (10 percent). It must be noted that
dairy products and sugar were exported in 1990. Concerned about rising food and agricultural
imports, the Govemment introduced new tariff changes on August 1, 1991. Tariffs increased
to 40 percent for sugar, 40 percent for butter, 35 percent for cheese, 25 percent for eggs, 20
percent for most live animals, 20 percent for potatoes, 20 to 40 percent for tomatoes, etc.
Tariffs on eggs were increased sharply in November 1992 to protect domestic producers from
alleged dumping from CIS counties. Since August 1991, on two occasions, the Govemnment
has added, for budgetary reasons, general surcharges of 5 percent and 6 prcent, repectivly,
on virtualy aU imports increasing average duties at the border to 17 percent.
69. Untti recently, there have been no licensing requirements, export subsidies or
quantitative restrictions on imports or exports of agnculture goods. Some export restictions are
related to trade agreements accepted by Poland such as the voluntary self-restraint on export
of sheep, mutton and goat meat to the EC. On the other hand, ARR has in the past granted
export subsidies on agricultural products. However, the Government is committed not to



- 20 -
subsidize exporu in the future, though ARR or otherwise. Controls were introduced in October
1992 in an attempt to offset the market disruptions caused by the drought. Temporary import
quotas weir introduced for feed wheat, durum wheat and barley with imports above these quotas
subject to normal, and not preferential, tariffs. Import tariffs on other products such as maize
and other feedstuffs which are in short supply have been temporarily suspended. Restrctions on
exports of cereals, rapeseed, beet pulp and other products also went into effect for a six-month
penod. For these products, an export permit from the Ministry of Agriculture is required.
70.   During the first half of 1991, processed food imports rose by 143 percent and
agriculrl imports by 138 percent. Food exports fell by 7 percent, but exports of agricultural
products rose by 21 percent, giving Poland a net surplus in food and agricultural trade of
US$330 million. In May/June, imports of livestock and meat declined substantially. This was
due not only to the April tuiff changes but also to the devaluation of tihe zloty against the US
dollar. Food and agricultuWal imports have increased in 1992, mainly as a result of the drought
The Govemment has begun in August 1992 an import program of 2.5 million tons of wheat and
other cereals for food and feed.
71.   The Government negotiated in 1991-92 several important ininal   de
arrangements. In the GAIT, Poland still has the status of a centrally planned country and does
not have the usual GATr obligations reprding the nature of its border measures. Specifically,
Poland has no GATr bindings of any tariff rates. Poland completed te first round of its
renegotiations of its Protocol of Accession to the GAlTT with the objective of obtaining market
economy status. Poland also signed in December 1991 an important Agreement with the
European Community known as the Europe Agreement and initialed in November 1992 a trade
agreement with the European Free Trade Area. New trade arrangements with Commonwealth
of Independent States countries are also being discussed. These negotiations are likely to result
in a number of new concessions by Poland, including a given set of tariff rates,
72. The Government has sutaed that it will monitor foreign markets to ensure that they
remain open for Polish agricultural products and wil take measures to safeguard its agnculture
against unfair practices. Overal, the Government continues to be committed to maintaining
relatively low tariffs on agricultural and processed food products. But the temporary trade
restrictons introduced in October 1992 in an attempt to offset drought-induced disruptions would
represent a serious setback if they become permanent in any way.
73.   The Government is also committed to coordinate its tariff policy with its agroindustrial
restructuring programs. To that effect, under the MTSAP, it will carry out a study of the
protecton structure of the food processing industry and implement, if necessary, tariff reduction
measures phased with the restructuring programs for domestic agroindustries, with the objecive
of avoiding setting tariffs for processed products higher than those for agricultural raw materials,
as is cunrently the case for several products.
c. Credit Policy for Agdculture
74.   Special incentives for agriculture are essentally limited to subsidized credit programs
since virtaly all diret subsidies to agriculture have been eliminated. Under the ETP, the



- 21 -
Government has taken the important step of including most subsidies povided to agriculture
explicitly in the budget except for legislated transfers of interest on statutory deposits of banks
at the National Bank to the MAFE. Subsidies in the secw  have been reduced significantly over
the past years. Absolute credit subsidy levels, at some Zl 750 billion in 1991, rpresented only
about 5.5 percent of public expenditures in the agricultual sector and subsidies in 1992, apart
from the special drought program, have changed little from this level.
75. The Government recognizes the distortions caused by subsidized credit and, under the
MTSAP, intends to reduce them. However, it will do so gradually in order to avoid the
disruption in agricultural production and incomes which a precipitous elimination of credit
subsidies would cause. The Govenment intends to rely as much as possible on market-based
credit allocation for agriculture. It is expected that the adjustment to a market economy will
proceed relatively quickly in agriculture because of the predominance of the private sector.
Nevertheless, because of the extensive structural changes required, some markets will only reach
competitive equilibrium over the medium term. During the transition, supply response may be
lagging because support serices for farmers, market information systems, and rura
infratucture need to be strengthened. Therefore, the Government's policy is to gradually
reduce credit subsidies as competitive markets evolve, farmers adjust to the new environment,
and support services improve. The capacty to provide subsidies is, of course, highly
constrained by the tight fiscal situation. Moreover, the Government expects that the acceleration
of ownership a  man ement t      mion  in the state sector wil significantly reduce the
pressure for subsidized interest rates.
76.   In the short term, the Govemment will make use of credit subsidies in a limited way,
for both investment and turnover credit, in order to avoid disruptions in agricultural production
and incomes. Government policy will depend pardy on the level of domestic inflation and on
stable relative prices. If inflation continues to drop, it may be possible to discontinue subsidies
to turnover credit altogether. If inflation picks up again, the Government will have to rely on
limited subsidies for short-term credit for strategic activities, but it will not penrit the use of
lare credit subsidies to agriculture, since that would only compound the country's
macroeconomic difficulties.
77.   For investment purposes, since the modernization of private fanns is critical to the
rationalization of the sector, the Govemment plans to continue to subsidize a limited volume of
credit for on-farm modernization until interest rates drop to levels below 20 percent.
2. Structural Reforms
a. P,ivazadon and Resractuing of State-owned Agd*WuIurl Mantetng
and Processing Enterpises
78.   The objective of this component is to improve the efficiency of the agricultual marketdng
and processing sector. Inefficiencies are linked both to the organization of the sector itself and
to the quality of management. Rapid privaion of state assets has been selected as the
preferred mode of transformation of the food economy. The pnvatzation dnrve should result
in substantial improvements in enterprise efficiency by providing better incentives to labor,



- 22 -
management and capital. The Privatzation Law for State-Owned Entrises was enacted m
July 1990 and a Ministry of Privatization (MoP) was established in September 1990. The
Govenment created an Anti-Monopoly Office (AMO) in March 1990 and initiated
demonopolization actions, in particular in agricultural markets. The Bank is supporting the
overall process of privatzation of state-owned enterprises through the World Bank financed
Privatzion and Restucturing Project (Lan 3342-POL).
79.   Cooperative propertes are not covered by the law of July 1990 and are not within the
competence of the Ministry of Privatiatton. In the coopeive sector, a different approach
needs to be adopted. The process of rorganizg and rstucturing coopaives requires
clarification of ownership, the drafing of a new coopertive legslation and transitional
regulatons to facilitate the transformation of the cunrent cooperatives into true market-based,
member-servicing coopeaves. The first step in coopeatve resdtctuing was accomplished
with the dissolution of coopeave unions and liquidation of their assets, a process which is still
on-going. Cooperative restcturng is being supported by the World Bank financed Agricultual
Development Ptoject (FY91).
80.   Since the privatizaon process began in 1990, several important developments have taken
place. However, privatization progress to date in the sector remains inadequate. It has been
too slow to have any impact on the overall efficiency of the sector. The number of small and
medium-size sta-owned enterprises, particularly in agroindustry, has been growing gradually
as a result of the breakup of multi-plant enteaprises. Decions concerning those break-ups are
made by the founding bodies (genrally the Voivod) at the request of maagement, or at the
initative of AMO. The AMO, in particular, has reached agreement with some of the
voivodship-based enterprises of the former grain milling and storage monopoly, PZZ
(Pwwe Zalddy Zbozow), to create smaller autonomous units. In addition, privatization
of a limited number of agroindustrial SOEs has occurred, mostly though "liquidation," (i.e.,
leveraged buy-out usually partly involving the workers of the enterprise) or through joint
venures with foreign parners.
81.   Administrative resonsibilities for privatizaion and restructuring of agroindustries are
shared between several institutions. The Ministry of Privadzation is responsible for the
privatizaonprocess; the AMO for demonopolizaton actions and anti-trust policy; the MAFE
for agricultural policy and the MoF for the budgetary aspects of the process. The Government
created in January 1991 an Inte sterial Commission for the Privatization of the Environment
of Agricuture (Miedzyresory Zespl do SprawPiywazcji Otcnia Rolniawa) to ffitat
coordinaton. For the dairy sector, the MAFE constituted a special Commission for Dairy
Restrucuing and has nominakA a Director for Dairy Restructurng.
82.   An important relatd issue is repfivazadon. The MAFE has received claims from
former owners of small food processing plants as a result of the nationalization drive in 1946
(in April 1991, the MAFE had received 2,000 such claims as well as claims from former owners
of more than 900,000 ha of land impounded in apparent contravention of the Land Reform
Law). Settlement of claims from former legitimate owners is likely to be done through finacial
compensation and would not involve devolving the assets to former owners. It is, theref, not
expected that this issue would slow down the privatizaton process.



- 23 -
83.   Over the priod 1993 to 1994, the Government will accelerate the privatization of state-
owned agroindustry and marlkting enterprises as part of the MTSAP. State ownership in these
enterprises has been reduced by an estimated 15 percent (measured by the book value of assets)
in 1992, and present epectations are at they wil be reduced by a further 20 percent in both
1993 and 1994, so that in three years state ownership will have been cut by about half. The
agroindustry sector, which is composed maindy of small- and medium-scale enteprpnses, has been
selected as one of the priority sector for rapid privatization (see Ministry of Privatization,
Prlivofzaon Progrmfor 1991, Warsaw, January 1991). Government actions will be carried
out on the basis of studies commissioned by the Ministry of Privatization, and under the
umbrlla of the procedurs set up and agreed under the World Bank-financed Privatization and
estructuring Project.
84.   Acdon Programs.  The Government has adopted a subsectoral approach for the
agricuItural processing and marketing sector with interministerial teams appointed to prepare
resructuring and privatzation plans. Subsectoral studies carried out by foreig and/or domestic
consultants provide a technical, financial and economic diagnostic at the subsectoal level in
order to prioritize actions for privatization and restrucring and gude the Ministry of
Privatizaon. Under the MTSAP, the Government is developng subsectoral action programs
for the privatzation and restrung of stteowned enterpises in agroindustry and pparing
an implementation timetable for 1993 in the following subsectors: dairy, ceras and feed,
sugar, meat, oiseeds, fruits and vegetables, and potato and starch. These action programs
determine how the pivatization strategy will be implemented and which institutions are
responsible for implementation; present a timetable for the steps to be takm  during the
privatzation process (parion, consultations, implementation, monitoring, etc.); and specify
the financial cost of the process, including staff requirements, costs of external exprti  and
tnical assstance reqWrements.
85.   The first phase of each action program is the selekion process ("triage") based on an
economic, financial and technical assessment of the viability of the enterises. Enterprises in
each subsector are grouped into: (i) enterprises that are privaizable without restructuring
required, (ii) entrprises for which financial and/or physical restructring is required, and (iii)
non-viable enterprises. The second phase is the implementaton phase, with negotiatons and
agreement between potential buyers, workers and managers, and founding body concerning the
privatizafion of individual enteqrises; restruturing actions carried out by the Indusil
Development Agency (IDA); negoaons with banks and creditors concerning fial
restructuring, etc. This second phase also includes arrangements with local governments
(municipalites and gminas) to dispose of the social assets of the enterprises, such as housing and
schools, and contactual agreements for use of roads, power and heat supply, etc. Finally, this
phase includes a timetable for the closure of the enterprises that are non-viable and the sale of
their assets.
86.   The action progrms also contain accompanying measures aimed at facilitating the
pnvatizaon and restuctrng proce-such as the adoption of a comprehensve price and trade
policy famework for each subsector, the development of guideines for regional offices of
Ministry of Prdvatzion and founding bodies, of model-ontracts between local governments
and enterprises, and of policy guidelnes to deal with specific issues such as environmental



- 24 -
liabilities, mergers and acquisitions, and input pncing-and reinforcing the institutional
capabilities of the institutions involved. Finally, the action programs contain a series of
measures (such as taining and technical assistance programs) aimed at improving entetprise
performance and management dunng the process of privatization and at making enterprises in
the subseetor attrctive to potential buyers.
b. Lnd Polcy
87.   The main objectives of the Government's medium-term policy related to farmland are
to develop the market for private land transactions, to privatize state farms and to foster a
frmland structre capable of keeping Poland's agrcultural sector internationally competitive.
To accomplish these objectives, the Government has prepared the necessary legal and
institutional framework to privatize and rtructure Poland's 2,230 state farms. It is currently
developing new laws, regulations, and financial instruments to facilitate private fanrland
transactions among the country's 2.7 miMlion farms. Particularly important is the development
of a coherent stategy to ransfer almost 4 million hetares of state land to the private sector
while encouraging the development of a private land market.
88.   Significant changes have been initiated in terms of land policy and on legal and economic
instruments. Maximum area restrictions for farms together with other operating restrictions have
been lifted. All Polish citizens are now pemitted to own or lease farmland. The legal basis for
lea farmland has been clarified with the permitted leaseold duration extended to 30 years.
Retiring famers are now permitted to rent their farmland to others. Admiative restrictions
on the purchase and leasing of state-owned land have been removed. The agriculturl tax system
has been modifid. Together with the new legal provisions on privatization of real property
owned by the Treasury, these new laws, reguations and policies represent the beginning of a
long-term effort to foster an improved market for privately owned farmland.
89.   An expanded progam of land consolidation is being developed. This has to be viewed
in the contet of the expected budget difficulties of forhoming years. Currently, land
consolidaton and land substitution efforts are performed each year over some 55,000 ha, but
2 million ha are stil awaiting assessment prior to the initiation of consolidation eforts.
90.   On land cadastre issues, work is underway to systematcally harmonize land tansctions
data with enties made in the land registers. Work is also under way to introduce computer
technology and link it with the land rgister system. The Government expects this work to taie
at least a decade.
91.   As these polici are implemented, the directon of change in the farm structure in the
medium term is likely to be twofold. First, farmland owned by the State is being leased and
sold to private frmers or will be allocated to consrvation and afforestation purposes. The
objective of the Government in the medium term is to withdraw from the farm production
business. The Government, however, is likely to remain a major landholder, leasing farmland
to private operaW s on medium and long-term lease agreements. Second, private farnm  will
evolve into two categoes: small fms of 10 ha and below, farned on a part-time basis, whose
output is mainly consumed by the household or sold in the local economy, and larger flU-time



- 25 -
commercial farms averaging 50 ha whose production is marketed tirough coopeaves,
agroindustrial processors and privately owned trding firms. These larger farms operated by
full-time farmers will require credit to modemnize equipment and increase labor productivity.
92.   Prvate Famland Market.  The Government is developing a medium-term action
program, including improved institutional mechanisms, to build an effective market to facilitate
farmland sales and rentals in the pnvate farm sector. This private sector is by far the largest
in Eastern Europe maldng up 75 percent of the overall land area, with 2.7 million farmers
cultivating 14 mitlion ha, with plots averaging 5 ha and usually divided in 6 separate subplots.
Average field size is just below I ha, leading to inefficiencies in equipment use and time wasted
in travel between plots. Until 1991, almost no action was takmen to improve financial and legal
instruments for farmland sales, leases and transfers. Thus, only 200,000 ha of farmland was
sold in 1990, slightly over 1 percent of the total of 18 million ha. Mortgages, title insurance,
and leasehold instruments were not well developed under the previous regime. The land
consolidation effort was weak, with land registation procedures and cadastal administration
slow and antiquated.
93.   Under the MTSAP, the Government aims to carry out the following legal and
institutional reforms to improve land policy and to facilitate private land transactions:
(a) Legal Refons. An inventory of existing laws and regulations governing land
transactions, esecaly the right to inherit, to lease and to sell land will be caried
out and detailed recommendations for needed improvements developed. The
inventory will also cover a review of economic and tax incentives directed at
restcturing state and private farms, access to lands in the National Land Fund and
laws concerning the sale, inheritance and leasing of lands of renring firmers.
(b) Land Consoldation. Govenmment will prepare and start implementation of a 20-
year plan designed to accdlat current land consolidation efforts (65 percent of
private farms are parcelized and lack adequate access roads). This program will
propose recommendations for financing land consolidation efforts. The Government
will also develop an incentive system to encourage retiring farmers to sell or lease
their lands for consolidation purposes and to encourage non-retiring farmers with
non-viable farms to sell or lease land. The first phase of the plan, cuently under
elaboration, involves defining on a regional basis what constitutes the "threshold of
viabilit" for farms taking into account physical, economic and human criteria.
(c) Cadastre. The moderniZation of the cadastre and land rgister documentation for
farmland titling and sales will be implemented through the development of a modern
geodesic system, the use of digital processing and the joint use of resources by the
Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance.
c. Phvatizadon and Restcturwng of State Farms and of State-owned Land
94.   Although state farms comprise only 25 percent of Poland's farmland, the Government
is giving prionty to tir pnvatzation because of their importance in key agricultral regions.



-26 -
They are concentrated in northern and western Poland where ftey make up around 50 percent
of the land area. Their contribution to the agro-economy is significant with state farms having
about 30 percent of feed milling and almost 80 percent of alcohol production. These activities
involve significant linkges with the private fing sector, with state fms buying private
farmer produce for processng or acting as collecting centers for markedng. Their share of
production is also important with state farms producing over 50 pert of marketed output of
some crops and over 60 percent of some export crops like rapeseed.
95.   Based on recommendations of the ASAL Prepartion Working Group, Government
prepared a draft law for the restructuring and privatization of the state farm sector. This passed
the Sejm in October 1991 and was signed into Law in November 1991. This law creates an
Agriculture Property Agency to faclitate restucturing and privaon of the state fam system.
It began work in early 1992. The Agency established 12 regional branches. The rate of
pdvadzadon will depend on developments in the land market, on the possibility to support
privatiation with a credit program, on the demand-supply sitution in agriculture and on the
progress made in expanding the administrve and technical capabilities of the Agency. Basic
objectives under the MTSAP are for the transfer of the land on state farms and other sta-owned
land to private management or ownership and for the transfer of state-owned food processing
and agri-business units of state farms to private ownership within three years.
3. Institional Reforms and lIstitution-building Measures
a. Enabling Environmentfor the Agcu1tura Arkdceng and Processing Sector
96. There is no doubt that the privatization program is of critical importance for the Polish
economy. There is a risk, however, that the sheer magnitude of the privatization process will
concentrate the resources and energy of the admistraon to such an extent that it will be
distracted from addressing the broader objective, which is to design an appropriate environment
for the development of a competitive agroindustry and to address the specific needs of new agro-
entepises. The MTSAP, therefore, includes actions aimed at putting m place the enabling
environment for agroindustry. This includes legal, regulaWy, institutional and policy actions
in the five areas listed below.
97.   Legal Franewort The legal framework requires improvements to adapt to the new
market-based economy the existing legislation and arbitation procedures regarding domestic
trade and contracts for agricultural products. In partcular, improvements are required in the
following areas: commercial contracts; liability of specific professions (such as brobers,
commission agents, etc.); licensing procedures; and regulation and supervision of commodity
exchanges.
98.   Environmenal Standards.  The National Environmental Policy adopted by the
Government in November 1990 requires spefic actions to ensure environmentally safe use of
inputs in new and old agrindustrial plants, and measures to cerfy compliance with
environmental standards. Water, soil and air pollution by the food industry results from
outdated technological processes-mainly in the sugar, meat, dairy and pota/starch processing
industry-and from the ill-adaptation of the environmental regulatory framework to the changes



- 27-
taling place in the economic struu. There are no agroindustrial plants on the list of the most
enrnmentally hazardous plants issued by the Stae Inspection Agency for Environment
Protecton, but the wasteful use of inputs (especially water) by the industry and, in some cases,
the location of plants represent a threat both to the environment and to the health of consumers.
Three different types of actions are requred to address these issues.  First, cany out
Ewironmenal ffkidency Revew ('Audlu ") during the process of privatization and restucturng
in the food industry, so as to identify ways to increase the operating eficiency of plants through
improved technology and better operation and maintenance. Secondly, collaboration between
the food industry and public authorities to develop an Ehvironmental I7mac Assesm  in the
food industry. Tbirdly, assessing the economic costs that would be entiled by the adoption of
technology-based standards (e.g., "Best Available Control Technology-) for air and water
pollution smilar to those of the European Community in the food industry, and revising the legai
and reglatory framework based on EC standards, including an enforceable system of
environmental fees and fines for air, water and soil pollutants and the strengthening of the
capabilities of enforcement agencies, both at the national and at the voivodship level.
99.   Sn , Inspecton, Quai Conrol and Consumer Protection. A large number
Of state  iions supvise the stndardiztion, safety and inspection, and certification of
products, fatories and laboratories in the agrcultural and food sector. The most important ones
are Cenrany Inspektorat Stanayzecji (CIS) of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations,
Centralne Biwo Jakosci Wyrobow (CBJW), the Veterinary Department (VD) of the MAFE,
Pannwow  hnseWa Skupu I Pzetwrstwa Artyulow Robrych (PISIPAR) which depends on
MAFE, Polskiego KXmiu Nonralai (PKN) and the Sanitary and Epidemiology Department
(SANEPIID) of the Ministry of Health. The Government is preparing an action program to
rationalize this network of institutions; transfer export and import certification functions to the
pnvate sector; clarify the scope of activity, product coverage and implementation instruments
of the remaining institutions; prepare the necessary adjustments in legislation and improve the
equipment and laboratores of PKN, CBJW, VD and SANEPID. The transfer to the newly
crated Subsector Interprofessional Organizations (para. 101) of quality control functions will
also be examined, jointly with the launching of quality mnagement training and technical
assistance pilot programs in several regions.
100.  Whoksale and Retail Mareting. The privatization of small retail shops is tang place
at an accelerated pace. The Polish authorities are considering a plan to implement food safety
and hygiene at the retail level and to better organize and police street markets. The central
govemment (MAPE, ARR), with the collaboration of local authorities, is considering ways and
means to develop a network of agricultural wholesale markets in the regions and to improve
products, reduce marketing costs and diversify retail outlets. The privatization of Foreign Trade
Organizations is also underway. Several reviews and feasibility studies asing the state of the
agricultural wholesale marketing infrsitcture and ganizion and evaluating the cost of new
projects have been prepared. On the basis of their recommendations and in consultation with
professionals and local authorities, an action plan for the development and financing mechanisms
of infrastruc   and for the elaboration of a regulatory framework for commodity exchanges and
fresh produce and livestock wholesale markelt will be developed.



-28-
101. Dewlop,mem ofSubsector Iteprofessional Organizations (SIOs). Many functions now
accompLished by state organzations should, in a market economy, be carried out by SIOs. The
role of the government in this respect is, of course, not to mandate organizations of farmers,
trads, processos and consumers to create such SIOs but to create the conditions for their
existence, inter alia to set up a legal framewrk and to discuss with those emerging groups issues
prtaining to the organization and perfornance of the subsector. This would include
participating in the development and improvement of the marketing infrastruc    network in
each subsector. The role of govemment would involve prepaing the legal framework for the
development of SIOs and tenrs of reference and business lnns for these SIOs, and ensuring the
reesentativeness of participants in the SIOs (farmers, trw.ders, processors, consumers, etc.).
b Development of the Ruam Maet Economy
102. Under the previous regime, policy actions were heavily focused on central planning of
economic activity, development of large industries and urbanization. The currnt Government,
recognizing the size and the importance of the rural sector and its potential for the development
of a market economy, is preparing a coordinated set of policies to address the specific issues of
tius sector, especially dunng the transition period from central to local funding of rural
infiastuture needs. The new approach of the Government gives an important role to local
goverm ts in the development and financing of infratucture and in the promotion of local
private initatives in rural areas. Policies being finalized for the development of rural areas will
involve cooriated actions related to (a) rmal institution building, (b) financial support for rual
infrastructe development and (c) the development of new planning approaches for rural
development.
103.  Insdtuion Building. The rural development component of the MrSAP emphasizes the
importnt role of local governments (gmlnas) in the development and financing of rral
frastructre and in the promotion of local private initiatives in rul areas. A new local
government structure was developed in 1990 but local finance and regional planning reforms are
still underway and are exected to take some time to put into place. Local governments will
require partial central financial support during the transition to local financial autonomy.
Gminas also need technical assistance to set up and implement development and land use plans
adapted to the new market economy.
104. At the central level, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Eoonomy has the
responsibility for rml development planning and infrastct  development to support local
planning initiatives. To facilitate the development of a medium-term rural development action
progam, the Ministry of Agricuture is creating, under the MISAP, a rural development
capability and intends to work in close connection with the local governments and aU the
ministries and institutions related to rural development issues.
105. The Government has decided to create a Rural Development Fund (RDF) to serve as a
mechanism of coordination among different partners and also as a channel for foreign fiancial
aid and technical assistance. The Government has agreed to provide the necessary funding
through the budget to initiate opeations of this new Fund. The RDF will have the legal stu
of a foundation creatd with the participation of the MoP and local governments. This legal



- 29 -
form was chosen because it will enable the lovemnment to begin implementation of its new rural
development policy immediately and to repond to the needs of the rural municipalies. A
foundation does not need an act of Parliament or a decision of the Council of Minists; it is
regsted  by a court of jusice under tibe official control of a ministry. The Board of the RDF
includes representatives of MAFE and MoP as well as representatives of the local governments
and other concerned institutions.
106.  The principal objecdve of the RDF is (a) cofinancing with the mral gnmnas and the local
population of basic infrastructure, primarily water supply, sewerage and telephones and (b)
development of new approaches to mrual development on the basis of regional pilot programs.
c.  awacins Rurml I4frstacure
107.  The lack of adequate infrstuctr is a key constraint impeding the development of rural
areas.4 The financing of inftuctre in resourCe-poor gminas requires the sUpport of grant
resources, which are not available during this uansitional period.
108. The RDF would contribute, in the form of grants, to the financing of projects submitted
by the socal committees s and local governments. It would guarantee the necessary continuity
of a nrual infrastuctr program and promote a more cost-effective, technical and financial
approach based on local initiative and participation. During the three years of the MTSAP,
pniorty would be given to water, sewerage and telephones, with 40 percent of RDF resources
to be invested in water supply, 35 percent in sewerage and 25 pent in telecommunications.
RDF contributions would normally cover 25 percent of the cost of rual schemes with the
balance provided by beneficiaries (30 - 50 percent), the gmina budget (10 - 20 percent) and
credit from local banks (15 - 25 percent). There is already good experience in Poland with this
kind of participatory development so that it is expected that the program will be very successful.
109. The RDF has been designed as a transitional program. It is intended to improve rural
inftucture rapidly in a situation of inflation, high interest rates and an undeveloped local
finance system. RDF's transitional functions would be replaced in the medium term by more
conventional financial mechanism for fumding gmina level public infrastructure needs through
the banldng system.
110.  The RDF will lead to the creation of new jobs lined to rual works programs and, in
a second stage, rural infrastructure will facilitate nual entepise development.
!/  The Poland Stsategic Investment Review prepred by the World Bank vith the Government concluded tbae (a)
the sbare of sector investments in agricultre, representing at present only 6.7 percent of the investment budget,
needs to be increased; and (b) investments should focus first on strengthening rural infastuctwe.
2I Social committees have a strong tradition in Poland. They are created by loca citizen in order to promote
infrstructr or public works.



- 30-
d. Support Sevices for Pvat FPanners (Research, Extension and Educaion)
111.  The Government's objective is to restructure and coordinate the national agculturd
information system, consisting of education, resch and exension, to make it responsive to
the rapidly changing needs of the private farming sector. The system was frgmented,
inefficient and ill-suited to the needs of private famg and rura communities. Much of the
operation has been oriented in the past to servicing state farm needs. Reforms have begun, and
a major effort is underway with assistance from the USAID fimded Polish/American extension
proect in the  suctng of the agricultural extension subsector (decentalization, staff
reduction, administaive steamining). However, these changes have acted on a relatively small
part of the agricltural knowledge process. A medium- and long-term coordnated approach
across the information and technology generafion and dissemination system has been finalid
by three sub-groups working under an intministeial coordination comMittee.
112.  Raponsibility for different parts of the agricultural information system rests in differet
mitnes.  Consquently, the system  is overstaffed and insdtutional procedures and
administrative accountabii  are rary matched to financial responsibility.  There is no
coordinatd policy or plan for the agricultural information system. Education curricula are out-
dated, research is geared to production targets and not to farm efficiency, and extension staff
have few messages appropiate for market-driven private farmers. These weaknesses result not
only in wastage of resources, duplication of effort and confusion in approach, but also in the
failure of the system to meet the urgent demands for new technology.
113. Recent Government actions have included the following:
(a) An inter-disciplinary working group on Agruural Education reenting the
ministes of Agriculture, Education and Environment, universities and secondary
schools has been established. A draft Agricultural Educaton Resructing Program
was submitted to the MAFE Coordinating Committee for approval. Many of its
recommendations are being implemented.
(b) MAFE has established an intermini   worldng group for researh and a draft
report has been prepared. An autonomous Committee for Scientific Research
(KBN) has been established and MAPE is rpresented. AgrcultuWal resech
institutes have been prioritzed for financi allocations by the committee. MAFE
has agreed with KBN to establish an Agricultural Research Council with a
secreiat in MAFE.
(c) MAFE has established an etension working group. The Agricultural Extension
Service has been decentralized; advisory services have been de-linked from
production farms; farmers' committees are responsible for work programs of newly
appointed extension drectors. Excess staff have been laid off. A draft stategic
report on extension has been prepared.
114. The three working groups have prepared restructuring recommendations, and an Inter-
agency Coordinton Comiaee, chaired by the MAFE vice minist responsible for resach,



- 31 -
extension and agricultur  education was established to prepare an oveal stategy report
incorporadng the main findings of the three working groups and to prepare coordinated proposals
for the reoientation and restucturing of agricultual educaton, research and extension. This
committee has rviewed the three worlkng groups'  pos   in order to finlize their
recomendations into an Action Plan for the Generadon and Transfer of Agricutural
Ifoimatlon and Tecinology. The action plan will identify critical constraints requiring solutions
and proposals for resructudng the agricultual information system in Poland.
115.  The first phase, under the Govenmment's MTSAP, to implement this effort is to define
the coordinat  goals and priorities for each of the three subsectors, review the description of
the pest system in structura and procedural terms, identify constaints and appraise the
pro osed restrucWring program. Subsequent stages of the restctring process are expected to
begin in a few months. Implementation of this program will require substantial technical
assitance and investments to revitalize the information system. The Government will
subsequently prepa  investment proposals based on the Action Plan for submission to the
ntrnational donor community. Reforms in the area of support services are likely to take a
decade. The Government has made a solid start and if current progress continues, a complete
resucturing and refocusing of the agricultual information system towards the private farming
system is likely, with full results emerging at the end of the decade. The principal challenges
in this reform system will be firstly, to change attitudes and secondly, to provide investment
funds and technical assistance to suport the rationalized, streamlined system.
a. Resgctwig of dte MxniMy of Agdcture and Food Economy
116. The Government has begun the process of improving its institutional capabilities and
restucturing its administraton to effectively manage agricultural policy in a market-based
economy.  Intittional change, however, has been slow, espocialy in the Minitry of
Agricultare and Food Economy. Nonetheless, a number of institutional reforms in agrculture
are underway in several areas. First, progress has been achieved in reforming the research,
extension and education system (pana. 111). Second, a new Department for the Privatzation
of Sate-owned Agroindusties and Farms, headed by a Secretary General, was set up in early
1991. Third, insitutional improvements within the MAFE to address rural development policy
issues, including provision of rural infrastuctr and support to village level mic-enterprise
development, are being considered.
117. However, much remains to be accomplished. Agricultural policy analysis and
formuaon, in partiular, is weak in general and especily so in the Ministry of Agriculture
and Food Economy. Information on agricultural markets is poor; the Ministy of Agriculture
and Food Economy should, in connection with SIOs, develop publicly available market
informato fo frmers and traders (pa. 101). There is also poor coordination of food and
farm policy betwen ministries and agencies. Finally, there is litde effort to ensure consistency
in exea  aid and lending for agriculture and rural development.
118.  Under the MTSAP, the Govemment will undertake a comprehensive review of the
structure, functions and staffing of the ministy and prqere and implement a restrcturg plan
sadsfctory to the Bank which should include the creation of an Agricultutal Policy Deparmet,



- 32 -
a unit responsible for Price and Market Information, and a Rural Development Unit in charge
of coortdinang policies for the rural sector.
f. The PubUc Investment Program for the Agdeultwra Sector
119.  Until 1989, public investment in the aculture sector-as in all other sectors of fte
economy-was determined by the Central Plaming Office. Aggregate targets were then broken
down into detailed programs. While central controls have been phased out, they have not been,
as yet, replaced by an institutional capability for preparing investment strategies, setting
priorities for investments to complement private sector economic activity and to identify, prepare
and evaluate public investments (pam. 52).
120. A related problem is the ministry's budgeting process: it is not sufficiently transparent,
nor is it well integrated with investment activity by local governments which carry out
substantial volumes of investment in the sector. The absence of linkages to local government
economidc activity is hampering investment decisions within MAFE. Clearly, one major
difficulty at present is that procedures are not in place for data on levels and sub-sectors of
public investment in agriculture to be channeled to the MAFE. As a result, policy plamning is
more difficult.
121. The Government is committed to develop, in the medium term, adequate budgeting
procedures and an institutional capability for formulating, evaluating and monitoring public
investments. A preliminary revie of public investment in aU sectors of the economy, including
the agricultural sector, was carried out jointly in 1991 by the Ministry of Finance and the World
Bank. The review was designed to look at specific investments, as well as the investment
decisin process. Using the findings of this preliminary review, under the MTSAP, the
Government is devedoping economic, financial and institutional criteria for screening public
investme  projects in the agricultural sector. The medium-term objective is to ensure the
efficiency of public investment expenditures.
PART IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. LOAN AMOUNT AN USE OF FuNDS
122.  The prposed IBRD Loan would be made to the Republic of Poland in an amount of
US$300 milLion. The projected quick disbursing financing from the World Bank would ernmit
continuation of the country's import program while helping to prevent the emergence of arrears
on rescheduled obligations, which would ultmately threaten the medium-term debt restructn
agreement now in ececution. The proceeds of the loan would be used for financing eligible
imports and consultant services for technical assistance. The credit would be disbursed in two
equal tranches, the first tranche being expected in Febnrary 1993 and the second tranche
expected to be in February 1994 upon fulfillmnt of the conditions outlined in paagrph 151.
A negative list of imports would be financed. Proceeds of the loan will be used to finance: (a)
the CIF cost of geneal imports and relet foreign services, excluding goods financed by ote



- 33 -
multilateral and bilate  agencies, luxury goods, military equipment and other goods specifically
prohibited; and (b) consltant services and supporting equipment for technical assistance (US$10
million). Imports of farm chemicals under this loan will be restricted to those included on the
Bank's list of registered active ingredients.
B. LoAN OJeCvzs AND SCOPE
123.  The proposed loan is designed to help the Government of Polad achieve the MTSAP
reforms that it is undertaldng. Agreement was reached during negotiations on the actions to be
monitored under the ASAL as listed in the policy matrices in Annex 3. Key actions were
selected as conditions of Board presentation and conditions of second tranche release.
Macoeconomic Frmework for Agriculture
124.  Price Policy. The objectives are to reduce the burden of the Agency for Agricultural
Market' (ARR) activities on the budget, and to ensure that ARR's activities effectively
contribute to the development of prvate agricultmal markets and that its budget is used to
promote price stabilization through forward truding and othe financial mechanisms.
Parliament, in creating the Agency, gave it the administrative responsibility for the state food
reserves. Cuntly, the levels of the required reserves are set by the Council of Ministers.
Duing negotiations, clarification on the management of state reserves by ARR and the
separation of the ARR accounts have been obtained. In addition, an annual Acdon Progam will
be developed by ARR to promote prvate sector activities in domestic and international
agricultural trade. At the end of each fiscal year, an opeational audit of the activities of ARR
will be caried out to evaluate its efforts in promoting these private sector activities.
125.  Trade Policy. The objective is to ensure the continuation of the free trade policy adopted
by the Government, to maintain low tariffs on imports of processed and unprocessed agricultural
goods, to ensure a close coordination between tade policy reforms and agroindustry
restructuring prognams and to set up the institutional framework for the application of trade
agreements adopted by Poland.
126.  Cret  Policy forAgrture. The objective pursued in tiis area is to gradually reduce
and eventually eliminate credit subsidies to avoid distortions in capital allocation in the
agriculural sector.
127.  The specific actions to be wonitored to enue that progress is achieved in the reform
of the price, incentive and trade policy framework are listed in Annex 3, pages 71-72.
Strucural Reform
128.  Prlvtzadon and Rsnrurng of State-Owned Agriculue Mareing and Prcessing
Ewerprises. The reforms supported by the ASAL in this area aim at improving the efficiency
of the agrcultual marlting and processing sector through: (a) adoption of three-year action
programs for the privatization of state-owned enterprises in at least five agroindustrial
subsectors; and (b) improvements in the enabling environment for the sector.



- 34 -
129.  Subsectoral actions programs of privatzation and restructuring are being prepared by the
Government on the basis of the recommendations of the studies prpre for the MoP, MAFE,
MoF and AMO. In this context, as part of the action progms, the following steps will be
taken by Government: Ministry of Privatizatton to prepare guidelines for founding bodies;
economic, fincial and technical assessment of the SOFs to be privatzed or liquidated and in
the implementation of privatizaton process; criteria and cost-shing mechanisms to be used
between municipalities and privatized enterpises for non-commercial activides performed by the
latter entepiises; finally, accompanying measures to be prepared, for each subsector, regarding
trade and price policy; antitrust guidelines by subsector for AMO; pubLic investment; and
research and trining programs. The action programs for three subsectors (sugar, potatotstarch
and poultry/eggs) have already been prepared and are being implemented.
130.  Land Policy and Resucturing of the State Fann Sector. Adjustment policy in this
component would focus on development of the market for private farmland, expand the existng
land consolidation program and to expedite the restrucuring and privatization of the state farm
sector. The key measures envisaged to develop the private land market will involve the
definition of the financial instruments (mortgages, fixed-term tenancies, title insurance, etc); and
improvements in the curet cadastal srvey and in tiding, surveying and registration
procedures.
131. On the restructuring and privatization of the state farm system, the objective is the
definition and implementation of a three year program for the restructuring and privaizaton of
state farms, and on measures enabling the new Agriculture Property Agency to sell or lease land
owned by state farms to private fanners, wnservation and forestry agencies and municipalities.
132. The specific actions to be monitored to ensure that progress is achieved in these
structal reforms are listed in Annex 3, pages 73-76.
Iu lonal Reforms and bIntutlon-Building Meass
133.  Enabling Environmentfor the Agricawra Maretlg and Processing Sector. Legal and
ins onal reforms of the enabling environment for the agricultura marketing and proesing
sector will be caried out in the following areas:
(a) legislation, regulatory measues and arbiation procedures regarding commercial
contracts for agricutmual products and liability of brokers, trade  and agents, etc;
licensing procedures
0) compliance with enviomntal standards in agroindustry
(c) institutional reforms in food product stan ion, inspection, quality control and
consumer protecdon
(d) an action plan and development of financial mechanisms for commodity exchanges
and fresh produce and livestock wholesale markefts.



- 35 -
134.  The specfi actons to be monitored to ensure that progress is achieved in the enabling
environment for the agricultal marketing and processing sector are listed in Annex 3, page 74.
135.  Development of the Rural Market Economy. The objecdves of this component of the
ASAL are to support the Government's program to develop rural areas through decentrizaton
of public svices and economic activity to the local level, promotion of micro-entewpises in
rural areas and development of rural infiasuctu. This will be achieved mainly through
institutionl and legal improvements, which include the creation of a Rural Development Fund
and the creation of a Rual Development Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture.
136. The specific actions to be monitored to ensure that progress is achieved in creating the
institutional framework for the development of a rural market economy are listed in Annex 3,
page 77.
137.  Support Servces for Private Fanners (Research, &tension and Educaion). The
objective of this ASAL component is the completion of an Action Plan for the reorientation and
restrcturing of the agricultural education, research and extension system and the first phase of
its implementation. The Action Plan would ensure that a coordinated approach is used in
reforming the agricultural information system for private farmers and that the reorganized system
responds to their needs.
138.  The specific actions to be monitored to ensure that progress is achieved in the reform
of the agricultural information system are listed in Annex 3, pages 78-79.
139.  Resuawing of the Ministry of Agricutue. The objective pursued by the actions to be
undertken is to rognize the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Eoonomy. A detailed
Restructuring Plan for the MAFE will be prpared and implemented to enable MAFE to adjust
its oraniztional struchtre to the needs of a food economy regulated by the market. The
reorganization will include improved capabilities for agricultural policy analysis and fonmulation,
agricultural market infonnation, and agricultural statistics.
140. The specific actions to be monitored to ensure that progress is achieved in the
reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture are listed in Annex 3, page 80.
141.  The Pbfic Investwn Program for the Agricultural Sector. The objectives of the actions
related to the public investment program for the agricultural sector are to improve the budgeting
process and to use economic criteria in the investment selection and evaluation process. The
Bank has received assurances that the Government intends to implement the recommendations
of the Strategic Investment Review regarding investment planning and budgeting process and
evaluaton criteria for investments. It is also envisaged that a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
for public investments in agriculture would be set up during the MTSAP implementation.
142. The specific actions to be monitored to ensure that progress is achieved in improving the
public investment selection, evaluation and budgeting process are listed in Annex 3, page 80.



- 36-
C. PRCoauMNT, DIs       MEM, Accoumm, AuDriNG A S             VSON
143.  Procwwe  would follow standard procedur for sructura adjustment lending. The
procurement procedures have been designed to permit the rapid use of funds while ensuring
efficiency and economy in the process. hnports would be purchased through international
competive bidding for contracts estimated to cost in excess of US$5 million equivalent. For
amounts below US$5 million, contracts would be awarded on the basis of evaluation and
comparisons of quotations obtained from suppliers from at least two eligible countres. Direct
contactig (single source purchase) would be allowed only for propietary items or where the
need for compatibility wi existig items calls for standardizadon. Prcumnet of the technical
assistace provided under the loan would be in accordamce with stndard Bank procedures for
Consultant Services as set forth in the Guidelines for Use of Consutants wnder World Bank
Loans. Procurement of pesticides would follow the "Guidelines for the Selection and Use of
Pesticides in Bank-Financed Projects and Their Procurement When Financed by the Bank" as
supplemented by "Checklist of Pesticides Not Recommended for Use in Agriculture or Suitable
for Resticted Use".
144. Disbursements. Disbursement would be made on the basis of documented disbursement
applications except for epnditures below US$500,000, which would be on the basis of
statements of expenditure. These statements would indicate the origin of goods, invoices,
customs declarations and evidence of payment, and would be available for review by IBRD
supervision missions and external auditors.
145. Accounts. The National Bank of Poland would keep the accounts on the operations
under this loan comprising: (i) a record of drawings on the loan with copies of all disbursement
requests and underlying documentation; and (ii) a record of transactions on the special account
and copies of the NBP statements of these accounts. These records would be updated monthly,
and quarterly statements of transactions and balances together with the necessary
recommendations for disbursement, and information on claims in process would be forwarded
to IBRD.
146.  Audis. The NBP will maintain records of all transactions under the loan in accordance
with sound accounting practices. All accounts would be audited within six months of the end
of the fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the World Bank The accounts and
auditors report would be submitted to IBRD within six months of the end of the financial year.
Assurances on the above arrangements for accounts and audit were obtained at negotiations.
147.  Supersion.  The Bank would undertake substantial supervisioxi of Government
implementation of the adjustment program. Upon effectiveness, a supervson mission would
monitor the results of the Board presentation conditions, assess progress on the overall program
outlined in the letter of sector policy and matrices and work with key officials to ensure timely
compliance with the second tranche release conditions. During the first supervision misions,
the teams would focus on implementation of the components related to agroindustry
rstrcturing, land policy, ARR and price/trade poLicy and the rural development program.
Subsequent missions would review progress on these components as well as on restructuring of
the institutional framework, especially the reorgnzation of MAFE, the restructg of the



-37 -
extension, research and education system and the preparation of a public inveAtment program
for the sector in the 1994 budget.
148. Three months prior to the second tranche release expected date, a full supervision
mission would carry out a detailed assessment of overall progress in the implemeaion of the
Program and analyze compliance with the targets of the second tranche relea  conditions as
outlined in the Loan Agreement, the Letter of Sector Policy and the detailed policy matrices.
D. LOAN CONDiTIONs
149. The detailed list of acdons to be monitored under the ASAL is in the matrix in Annex
3. An impressve number of policy reforms have already been achieved. The ASAL is being
brought to the Board of Executive Directors of the World Bank for approval on the basis of
those achievements. Other key conditions, also detaled below, have been selected as conditions
of second tranche release.
150. Condidons of Board Presentadon. The Government has already taken the following
actions which had been agreed upon at negotiations.
*  Satsfactoy progress with the implementation of the Economic Transfomation
Program previously agreed with the Bank
*  Adoption of separate budgets, accounts and control/audit procedures for intevention
activities and state food reserve management by ARR
*  Adoption of thre-year action programs for privatzation and resrucituing of state-
owned enterprises in three agroindustrial subsectors: sugar, potato/starch and
poultry/eggs
* Creation of an Agriculture Property Agency to restructure and privatize state-owned
farmland
*  Agreement between the Government and the Bank on the guiding principles of the
creation, organization and operation of a Rural Development Fund
* Adoption on a timetable for implementing agreed economic and financial criteria
and institutional guidelines for the public investment program in agriculture
151.  Conditons of Second Tranche Release
*  Continued satisfactory progress with the implementation of the Economic
Transformation Program agreed with the Bank
*  Government's budget for 1993 for intervention activities by ARR shal not exceed
in percentage terms the 1991 amount by more than one-half of the rate of inflation
contained in the budgetary assumpdons of the Ministry of Finance



- 38 -
*  Operational audit to be completed on the operatons of ARR including an evaluation
of its efforts in pmomoting private sector agricultu  trading activities which
provides for recommendations acceptabe to the Bank
*  Satifctory implementation of the three subsctor agroindustry piv on action
programs covering suga, potatstarch and poutry/eggs
* Prepare accompanying measures for each subsector related to: (a) trade and price
policy; 0) antitrust subsectoral guidelines for AMO; (c) research and training
programs
* Adoption of the borrower's budget for 1994 which shall reflect appropriate
economic and fincal criteria, and institutional guidelines for public invetments
in agriculture
*  Safisctory implementaion of an agreed  ganional restrucing progam for
the Mnistry of Agriculture and Food Economy and related agencies
- Establishment of an inter-agency Agicultural Subcommittee within the Committee
for Scientific Research (KBN) with terms of reference to be agreed by MAFE and
the Bank
E. COO DN ON, J          N    ON  AND MONTORG
152.  Cooination. An AdVsory and Monoring Commte chaied by the Mnstry of
Finance and cmposed of rpresentatives of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture and
Food Economy, Msnitry of Privatzaton, Economic Committee of the Council of Ministrs
(RM, Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations, Anti-Monopoly Office, Agdcuture Property
Agency (AWR) and Agency for Agriculturl Markets has been set up. This cmmttee has the
responsibility for coordinating the implemention of the sector adjustment program. It also
advises the Council of Ministers on progress of MTSAP implementation. The secretaiat of the
Coordinating Committee is being provided by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy.
Moreover, the MAFE has the responsibility for monitoring and evaluadon of the adjustment
operon. In order to carry out this task, a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (M&EU) has been
set up. The M&EU obtais inputs from the planning units of participating ministies and
agencies.
153.  Implmna. In carrying out the MTSAP, key ministries and agencies implementing
the program would be as follows:
* Mnistry of Ffnance: Ensure continued compliance with Economic Transformation
Program; detenine and monitor the overa1l expenditures for the agricultural sector,
including ARR expenditures, subsidies for agricultural credit and public investment
progam  for the sector; supervise financial aspects of the transitional nrl
development program.



- 39 -
*  Ministry ofAgrilcure and Food Economy: Coordinate technical assistance needs
of ASAL; supervise study and implement recommendations of the restructuring
program for the organization of the Ministry; implement the reorganization of the
research, extension and education program; prepare the transitional program for the
rural development component; develop the detailed program for fostering an
improved private farmland market; supervise the operations of the new Agriculture
Property Agency; and apply the new methods of public investnent planning and
budgeting for the agricuture sector.
*  Mnsry of Prvtizaton: Define and supervise implementation of the subsector
action programs for the restructring and privatization of agroindustry stteaowned
enterprises, including implementation of accompanying measums.
*  Misy of Foreign Economic Relations: Ensure maintenance of continued free
trade policy for the agriculture sector; supervise study of effective protecto of food
industies and implement tariff rationaliztion measures coordinated with
implementation of agroindustrial action programs on the basis of study
recommendations.
* Agricdature Propeny Agency: Complete the economic, financial and technical study
of state farm sector, including management; design and implement the three-year
program  of        g, xivatzation and transfer to consvation  and
afforestation.
o  Ant-Monopoly OQfle: Prepare subsector anti-trut guiines for agroindusties and
monitor compliance with guidelines.
?  Agencyjfor Aguiu Markets: Implement the separation of accounting, audit and
suervision/control procedures for interventions carried out on a commercial basis,
and  state food reserve management; develop intrnal expe     in commodity
marketiDng and supervise related technical assitance program; ensue conformity of
ARR activities with AMO guidelines; define and implement program to fully
opere through the private sector within three years; define and apply criteria for
state food reserve management and mechanisms of allocation of state reserves and
other state purchases/sales on a competitive basis; adopt plan for contracting
rrangements with private commodity traders.
154.  Monltoing Inrcators. Key setoral performance indicators were developed by the Bank
and the Goverment to monitor the impact of the actions under ASAL. The indicators are: (a)
the conditions of tranche rlease agreed upon during loan negotations; (b) paralm  monitorable
acto  contained in the policy matrices. Supervision will focus on indicators of the sector's
performance including: input supply; output; commodity trade; agricutural credit; agricultual
prices; as well as the pace of privafization of key agroindustries and state farms. Reports would
be submitted to the MoF and the World Bank on a quarely basis.



- 40 -
F. TECMNCAL ASSITANCE PROGRAM
155. An assessment of the technical assistance requirements for the implementation of the
MrSAP (suppo  to Government institutions, management training, pilot projects, etc.) was
carried out as part of the ASAL apprisal. This TA has been divided into two categones:
priority technical assstance programs and additional tecical assistance programs. The prior4y
programs are required to implement restructuring of the agroprocessng and state farm sectors,
to support Government's program to improve access to extnal fam product nwkets, and to
support the initiation of the rmal development component would be supported with loan funds
from the project (US$10 million) unless suitable alternative financing can be obtained from other
donors. A plan for supervising the implementation of this technical assistance has been
developed between the Bank and Borrower. Terms of Reference for the technical assistance
necessary to support the overall program have been prepared and are included in the Supporting
Volume on Technical Assistance. The priority programs cover.
*  Audit, ro tion of the bookeeping and accounting procedures, and risk audit
of the Agency for Agricultural Markets
3    lishment of monitoring capability of Polish access to foegn agricultural
markets
*  A study of effectve protecton of the Polish food processing industry
-  Development of improved management of the public investment program in the
agicultural sector
*  Restructuring of the public agencies in charge of standards, inspection, food quality
and consumer protection and privatization of a selectd number of these agencies
* Development of an environmental protection program for the food processing
industry
*  Preparation of a master plan for the development of wholesale marking and
commodities exchanges of agriculmal products
*  Rural in     e: training in prqject preption, evaluation and financing
*  Rural development assistance to gmfrws in formultig and implementing local
development and space use plan and promotion of miom-enterprises
* Technical support to the regional offices of the Agriculture Property Agency
*  Restructuring of agdcultural education, research and extension: support for the
Inter-Agency Coordinating Sub-committee
* A study for the restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy



-41 -
A pilot program on quality management in the dairy subsector
156.  Additional technical assistance needs for the implementaton of the MTSAP would be
supported by the EC PHARE program, fte British Know-How Fund and by furtier bilate
grant support. The EC PHARE Program has agreed in principle to finance substantial technical
assistance ncsary for the implementation of the Government's MTSAP. Other donors,
including the United States, the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden and France are financing
additional technical assistance necessy to implement the MTSAP.
G. PRoGRAm hMACT, BDNFT AND RISKS
157.  Ben*f. While it is difficult to quantify the impact of the reforms envisaged under the
MTSAP and supported by the ASAL, the package is exped  to help Poland accelerate
structura changes in the agriculbtal sector and adjust patterns of production in line with its
potentials descibed in Part II. It also is expected to have a beneficial impact on farm incomes,
mosdy by imprving competition in agroindustry which would permit a better transmission of
world pnces to farmers. The MTSAP will also result in cheaper and better quality food
products for consumers.
158.  A liberal trade regime for food products, the elimination of the state as the chief crop
purchaser and the development of istitutions in both the public and pnvate sectors to foster
private food markets in Poland is likely to greaty benefit farmers and consumers. Wbile
Poland's 2.7 million firmers are adjusting rApidly to the new economic system, agoceig
is stll largely state-owned and managed, and represents an important constrint to shtctrl
changes in agriculture. A key benefit of the MrSAP is the implementation of programs to
privatize key proessing sub-sectors. Completon of thae medium-term programs will greatly
improve efficiency in this sctor and lower procesing margins, which will benefit both
consumers and farmers. Improvement of the enabling environment for the agribusiness systen
will also accdeate efficiency improvements in agricultual processing.
159. After five decades of neglect of rural areas, the emphasis on rural development proposed
under the MISAP, pafticully the alocation funding for rural inf , should make a
start in stbilizing the rural populaton dunng this decade of economic transformation. The
fostering of ruml small-scale enteprises should provide employment for surplus workers in
privaized state farms and agribusinesses. The fostering of an exade market for private
farmland etansactions should improve farm structure and land consolidation, thereby increasing
efficiency. With only 1 percent of Poland's farmland changing ownership annualy in recent
years, the new efforts under the MTSAP to improve the regulatory environment for efficient
land tranactons should create a more vibrant private market for farmland. The development
of this prvate market would also be assisted by the leasing or sale of state land by the
Agriculture Property Agency.
160.  Ibludonal Refons. A key benefit of the MrSAP progam wiU be the restrucing
of the institutions supportng the shift from a command to market economy for the farm and food
system. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy will be completely restrtured, as will
the reseach, eatsion and education system for agriculure. The Govemment has started to



- 42 -
improve and reorgnize its public sector expenditure and investment program for the agrculture
sector, clearly identfying and separating opeting/subsidy costs from the investment budget.
161.  inpact on the Environmem. The MTSAP is liklly to have a beneficial impact on the
environment in two major areas.
(a) The implementation of measures to ensure environmentally safe use of inputs in
agroindustral plants, encourage better waste water treatment and disposal of food
processing wastes, and improve compliance with environmental standards are aimed
at substantially reducing damage to the environment caused by agriultural
processing industries. These measures are supported by technical assstance
programs which will help to carry out environmental efficiency reviews in polluting
enterpises.
(b) The restructured agriculral research and extension system will be developing and
disseminaing integrated pest management extension packages to farmers to reduce
and better manage applications of farm chemicals.
162.  Social Impact. The overl MTSAP will have, in the short term, a negative impact on
employment in agrilture while resulting in i nproved productivity and higher incomes in the
longer term. The restructuring of the agroir sustrial sector will, in a number of cases, lead to
plant closures and redundancies. Some subsectors, such as dairy coopeaves, will be more
affected tan others. Assuming potential reductions of 30 percent in the cuent level of
employment in agroindustry, this implies that up to 125,000 workers may need to find new
employment. The negative impact of restructuring on employment is likely to be significant in
the regions of Poland that have no regional advantage in food production and processin. The
impact on rural incomes is likely to be less severe tan the employment effect for three main
reasons:
(a) First, numerous workers are part-time fams and the loss of wage income
resulting from industrial unemployment is lily to be compensated, in some cases,
by income gains on the farm.
(b) Second, employment dislocations will be partally compensated by the social safety
net (which includes unemployment benefits and training progms) developed by the
Mnistry of Labor and Social Security and suported by the World Bank fimanced
Employment Services Project.
(c) Third, the rural works proposed under the MTSAP will provide employment in
mral areas. Also, multiple economic activities of the rural populon and the
predominantly private natre of the rural economy offer the possibility of a more
rapid change than in urban areas. This change repesents the possibility of
generating new employment and reducing unemnployment while, at the same time,
developing the rural market economy.



- 43 -
163.  Rivs. The main facto  that could dow down implementation of the MTSAP are
political paalysis and macoeconomic insbility. An increasing budget deficit and poor
prospects of trade with former CMEA countries (with which eval hundred enterprises are
fied) could lead to exchange rate instability and rising inflation, which would be detrimental to
accerated struct   change in the agricultural sector. The ASAL is attempting to mimize
th  risk by setng budgetary limits for the activities of the Agency for Agricutural Markets.
164. Delays could occur in the privatization process as a result of several factoirs. First, there
is a risk of continuing polidcal paralysis due to the dilution of power among many diferent
small parties and the debate about cons8tutonal reforms. Second, the Ministry of Privatzation
and the other instutions involved in privaization are new agencies which face a daunting task.
And finally, workers and maagers in state-owned enterprises and state farms constitute a
coaliton that acts to maximize their short-run incomes and could block privatzaton plans that
go against their immediate interest. Some political parties have become the champions of -slow
privatizalion' and of Government bailout of state enterises.
165. Given the weakness of the MAFE-one of the key ministries involved in the
implementation of the MrSAP-implementation delays could occur.   However, the
improvements in the organization of the MAFE proposed under the ASAL and the technical
assistance progrmms supported by the Bank and various donors should improve prospects of
ovall successf implementation of this program.
PART V. COLLABORATION WIH MFP AND DONOR AGENCIES
A. INIEAIONAL MONE:ARY FUND
166.  Bank/IMF collaboation has been close over the years, especially since 1989 when the
Fund began to assist the Govemment in implementig its Economic Transformation Program.
During the period since the launching of the reforms, the Fund has prvided support though
both Sind-by and Extended Fund Facility (EFF) Amrangements. Total disbursements by the
Fund to date amount to SDR 596.6 million. Under the 13-month Stand-by Arrangement
approved February 5, 1990 for an amount of SDR 545 million, the first three drawings were
made amounting to SDR 357.5 million; the Agreement expired on March 4, 1991. Under the
three-year EFF approved on April 18, 1991 for an amount of SDR 1,224 million, one purchase
for an amount of SDR 76.5 million was made on approval of the Arrangement, together with
a drawing under the oil element of the CCFF for an amount of SDR 162.6 milLion. The
agreemet became inoperaive in late 1991 due to the budgetary difficulties experienced by
Poland. After protracted negotiations, the Government has now initialled a Letter of Intent with
the IMP based on the 1993 budget proposal, for a Stand-by arangement covering the perod
extending to the end of 1993.
167.  Consultions between Bank and Fund staff concerning Poland's economic situaon and
prospects have led to a common understanding about the measures needed to bring the



- 44 -
stabilizion pogram to a successful conclusion, strengte the balance of payments and restoe
sainable growth.
B. EUROPEAN Co1Mmumwl
168.  Coordination with the BC has been particularly close. Tht PHARE program of the EC
jointly supported preliminary analysis for the ASAL by financing consultants for the Task Force
report, An Aglcukural Strategy,for Poland (June/Jiuly 1990). in October 1990, the EC hosted
a Group of 24 meeting in Brussels at which the Polish Government presented the Task Force
Report and outlined their initial policy reforms. A follow-up meeting was organized (0-24
meeting in Poland, September, 1992) to review existing and potential donor support for the
technical asitance required to implement the MTSAP.
169.  EC PHARE has also agreed in principle to support a number of technical assistance
ptograms linked to the implementation of the ASAL. The details of these technical assstance
progrms are speifid in the Supporting Volume on Technical Assistance.
C. OTmR DoNOts
170.  Other bilateal and multateral donors have programs in place to assist the MTSAP and
have indicated their willingness to consider support for expanded grant funding support as
requested by the Govemment. Sweden has financed consultants for the prepaation of the
ASAL. USDA has developed a major program in support of the restuctrng of the agriculture
extion program and to assist in developing an agricultmal policy analysis capability in the
ministry. France has started a program to foster improvements in the worldngs of the private
farmland market The UK (Know-How Fund) is providing financing for technical assistance on
state farm privatizadon and other key MSAP areas.
PART VL RECOMMEDATION
171.  I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
December 31, 1992
Washington, D.C.



4S -                                                    AN4 -
Page I of 9
REPUIUC OF POLAND
AGRICULTURE SECA-OR ADJIUTMENT LOAN
Table 1: Social Indcators of Development, 1991-92
3S.0      JS.20      res                  Lemma..
RUSORURCES
Tha     d                                              31po   g4n1  34i       6384      0114        gI 3
04   054
108
Ft; pr lOOtDdz ts~nm1er { 1}  
IH .  191           1L          2.2
U       dbwhuraluowtIzdiffaeWiai        duffiuuam           1.7       2s5        Q6         3.4       2.4        3.6
Pmwd,pap<asiam 2000                      t_dl    . s3                                   216.827    768.976    541,229
DdemmtMr-ol_S_X8h
=bib    tlm?                            pro.               173        #         15.4       17.8      29.5       24.9
i;petwcn9m           2.11        W        2.14       2.00       3.74      310
Matallay                                                  IA 457               100        9 .6        LS        75
Ou a                                                              I pe  41.  2 7 4 8  27.6  49.   4
Ufsaps~~waqa1I~~IUL' ovean  yamia       69.3 ~70.                       706        65          3
faul-                                 72.2       74.6      75.4       74.0       67.9       71.5
Tadb4wm                                                  isds  1.4  18.       19.704     94,597    237.840    t72,535
410       4p         40.67      323   3      4
asrs Otoo _aer                                             109        106        107
lual                                             10~~~~~~~~sthMomko  101  95    4.          0
=-?@vemu >                             %d1a1rf~   43.0   47O    416    38.3
a                                         ..        -          ..         _ .   _
NATURAL USOURCZS
tbaLsq.km          313        313       313       2.171    2765       18.79
109       121                              2
had                         Fcolbn61                                  601t1      s.i        Z           24,1
J7        201        ,~        40.9       34.3
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                            &Ie-   
Aceemtosafewatw                         .%dJ2Ojm            ...                 89.0-        ..0.0
X o *                *a                                       -l4
4 
o._  _______                          e._  OoS_
2                                                                                 O
O*b   a 1                                 ofvb  **7*a          an                            owl$ _
"~~~~~~~~                                                                 -



-46 -                                                 AN I
Page 2 of 9
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
AGRICULTURE SECrOR ADJUSTMENr LOAN
Table 1: Social Indcators of Development, 1991-92 (conued
Udmtol -   20af                                          10        10         -         ..         -
Povy
Absolmspoputyiaaamm  I.m        ,        psp1.             ..        -
Pop. in aabncaio  ut,:rbas %ofja                                     --- 
Fe"X *                                   %S"                                   "^
aurala                                       -         -         - 
Foed                                   *of              2as                              12
1ewrw"s**  979-81 M00  99   1073       ift      io0        9*        loss
lnoDp                                                                              I"odaPur1fS D 12.2   16S   9.0
IdGDP p-p_     i3,          1        3,5 j     36        2.Q        3.1
Hodupe                                                      FG                           101g 99  - 77
iotOiGDP           -        L           -
Fldin_esumeboug                         fiotGDP                     3A                      
Fuddp_w                                %Gf<3DP                      la    1 ..-
kgadoAIeq*d_h   2,.0Z3    2.70W        3,4165    2,685.0    1,1.22    1,794.4
p     *99 Iew  .  -oIbo-  Id                    in         ....-
T "      d                    *a~~~      ~~lbGP  ..       3.6         -         -                    ,
pizued""Wom uu ut                      sf32                                    8         14                   11
To.radlough                .        .                      ..         36- . ..
INVDTMESllt HUMAN CAPifAL
MedkmImie                              %DXP                _.       3.3        ,,         -         ..  
PflpulldokIpUr$hym                      PM.Ca                      3         4517      544. 
t W            1. _7"                         ..        ._         .
h(ud.t2m):s  9nbaF                                         ..        -                  lid
OrdRhdtdtiwlhmuyt(3dS)                 S                   _gs  ..             .          _
Edgueso"               *GDP                                         3.6        .. 
Pdaos  a du                                                                           101*w     100.990 l tM5  1039
cam     l                                *            10.0                            99.o     IOU        too
femdle                                         C                                         94
%eotwuydma           33.5      312   20..                                  -
pwa4ftebern"  ~    ~        poikpertadi           8         116                 2         276       25
poper 2    2 14                                                .12        24         is
xPMrhscMgVmads4                                                    977jo  _   .2 9L4   97.7       867       7t.
R_:pn *ef_ 2a = * 66 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~174
~~~~~~~~~% a( f Aw rN   - _                                            '*  B 
N?J.WSP.Perdt m                       pirtp             1666      247.8     207.3      177        7240      109



-47-                                                     A1bI
Page 3 of 9
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
AGCUimE SEAIOR AUSTmEN LOAN
Table 2: Nationai Accounts
(Zloty Trillion)
........................  ......................................................
199      1991      1092      1995      1994      1995      1996
(A) At 1987 prces
............................................................
Gross Gomustie Product               15.54     14.38     14.40    14.83      15.42     16.11     16.8K
Terms of trade adJustmet              0.16    -0.13      -0.13    -0.13      .0.14    -0.14    t0.14
Gros Dam tic aInoo                   15.72     14.25     14.26    14.69      15.28     13.91     16.70
Rsoce Balance                         1.38      0.21      0.62      0.31      0.45      0.43      0.46
exports of GUfS                      4.68      4.0S      4.26      4.3T      4.54      4.73      4.97
Ixports of UIPS                      3.31      3.84      3.64      3.86      4.09      4.30      4.51
Totat Expenditure                    14.18    14.17    13.78    14.32        14.97    13.68      16.38
Consumption                           9.99     10.57    10.25    10.60       11.10    11.64      12.17
Put ic                               1.31      1.21      1.16      1.18      1.19      1.20      1.22
Private                              8.69      9.37      9.09      9.43      9.91     10.44     10.96
Uatllocated ttem                   -0.36    -0.21
Investment                            4.19      3.60      3.53     3.72      3.88       4.05      4.21
Ffxed Capital Formation              3.55      3.39      3.52      3.63      3.76      3.91      4.06
Non Govarraent                      3.05      3.03      3.26      3.28      3.30      3.33      3.37
Oovervuent (NPS)                    0.49      0.36      0.26      0.35      0.6       0.57      0.70
Changes in Stocm                     0.6S      0.21      0.00      0.09      0.12      0.14      0.13
_omtic Savings                        5.73      3.68      4.01      4.09      4.19      4.34      4.53
Not factor Income                   *0.84    *0.30      *0.35    .0.27      .0.32     -0.39     -0.39
Current tranfero                     0.51      0.07      0.17      0.13      0.12      0.12      0.12
gross National Savings                5.40      3.45      3.84      3.95      3.99      4.07      4.26
toss Natfonat Product                14.72     14.08     14.05    14.56      15.10     1S.72     16.45
(1) At Current Prefes
ross Dom_stic Product               591.52   82S.27   1223.21   1647.43   2038.51   239.73   2367.19
Resource Balance                     50.01      3.40     27.87    28.52   - 28.41      29.61     33.64
EXperts of GNFS                    160.51    167.73    236.00   321.05    399.94   4S8.36    505.34
loports of GNFS                    110.50    164.33    208.12   292.53    371.53    428.7    471.70
Total Expenditure                   541.51   821.86   1192.14  1614.56   2004.70   2303.95   2526.82
Consumptfon                  .      378.62   644.58   9"9.55  1247.39   1566.73   1807.44   1985.16
Pubtle                              49.52    73.49    103.14   138.34    167.68    185.95    198.37
Private                            329.10   571.09   804.41   1109.03   1399.05   1621.49   1786.79
Invest ent                          162.89    177.28   282.59   36?.i7   437.9?   496.51    541.66
Fixed capital  rmation             116.07   155.03   251.02   339.78    419.59   479.32    523.23
Non Governfent                     94.43    136.96   232.51   306.83    368.63   409.12    433.38
Govermmnt (NfPS)                   21.64     18.07     18.51    32.95      50.96     70.19     89.85
Changs In Stocks                    46.82     22.26    31.57    27.39       18.38    17.20      18.43
Gros Dcomeste Savines               212.90    180.68   310.4?   395.69   466.38    526.12    573.30
Not factor Service tnoon            .31.88    .14.99    -22.47   -22.03    -31.5?    -43.18    *44.78
Current Trarsf er                    18.43      3.26     10.85    10.39      12.24    13.11      13.31
rass Nitional Savings               199-.4    168.ff   298.84   38.05    447.05   496.05   543.82
Gross National Product              559.64   010.28  1200.73  1625.40   2qf6.94  2296.36  2522.41
Conversion Factor                   9500.0   107S6.0  13559.0  17321.0  2039?.7  21847.4  22185.6
Convwrsion Factor (Adj.  11)        8689.1   11877.8  16005.0  17m71.9  20188.4  21763.8   22174.0
Population (Mtn mid-perfod)          38.11     38.24    38.38    38.52       38.66    38.80      38.95
CNP per Cap Non. Atlas (USS)          1690      1784      1f53      2374      2571      2719      2921
OP per Cap Ncn. Atles tUSS)           1786      1817      1992      2407      2612      27m       2973
GOP Mtn USS (nom exchr)              62265    78032    90214    95112        99938    107093    115714
GP per Cap om. (USS)                  1634      2040      2351      2469      2585      2760      2971
.......................................................................................................
1/ Adjusted coversion fator is equal  to the roling aveage 3-years) of the actual exchange rote.
Yers WtI) od (t-2) are adjusted to the perfed (t) using the domestic 9p deftator end the Us GNP deflator.



- 48 -                                            AN=  I
Page 4 of 9
REPunuc OF POLAND
AGRICULTURE SECrOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table 3: National Accouvt
(Perent of GDP)
1990     1991     1992     lS93     1994      1995     1996
(A) As percent of 1987 prico GOP
.. . ,,,,................
Gros Oomestlc Product             100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Terms of Trade *dJ.                 1.0     .0.9      -0.9     -0.9     -0.9     -0.8      -0.8
Gross Domestc Itncom              101.0     99.1     99.1      9.1     99.1     99.2      99.2
Consuiptton                        64.2     73.s      71.2     71.5     72.0     n.2       n.3
Privato                           55.8    65.1       63.1     63.6     64.3     64.8      65.1
Public                             8.4      8.4      8.1       7.9      7.7      7.4       7.2
Investient                         26.9     25.0     24.5     25.1      2S.1     25.1     25.0
Fixed Capftal Formadon            22.8     23.6     24.5      24.5     24.4     24.2      24.1
Privato                          19.6     21.0      22.7     22.1     21.4     20.7      20.0
Publfe                            3.2      2.5       1.8      2.4      3.0      3.6       4.1
Change In Stocks                   4.1      1.5      0.0       0.6      0.8      0.9       0.9
Resource Balance                    8.9      1.S      4.3       3.4      2.9      2.7       2.7
Exports of ONFS                   30.1     28.1      29.6     29.5     29.4     29.3      29.5
tmports of GNFS                   21.2     26.7     25.3     26.0      26.5     26.7     26.8
omstfe Savfrss                     36.8     25.6     27.9      2?.6     27.2     26.9      26.9
got Factor inc                    -5.4    -2.1       .2.4     -1.8     -2.1     -2.4      -2.3
Current Tranfers                   3.3      0.5       1.2      0.9      0.8      0.?       0.?
rs Nationat Savin                  34.7     24.0     26.7      26.6     25.9     25.2      25.3
Publfe                             6.6    -1.5       .5.5     -3.6     -0.7      0.2       0.7
Private                           28.1     25.4      32.2     30.2     26.6     25.0      24.6
(3) As percent of current GOP
=....0............................
Gros Domti Product               100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Consriptlon                        64.0     78.1     74.4      75.7     76.9     77.2      77.3
Private                           55.6    69.2       65.9     67.3     68.6     69.3      69.6
Publfc                             8.4      8.9      8.4       8.4      8.2      7.9       7.7
investmant                         27.5     21.5     23.1     22.3      21.5     21.2     21.1
fxed Capital formtion  .          19.6     18.8     20.5      20.6     20.6     20.5      20.4
Private                          16.0     16.6      19.0     18.6     18.1     17.5      16.9
Public                            3.7      2.2       1.5      2.0      2.5      3.0       3.5
change In Stocks                   7.9      2.7      2.6       1.7      0.9      0.7       0.7
Resource Balace.                    8.5      0.4      2.3       1.7      1.4      1.3       1.3
Exports of 1fs                    27.1     20.3      19.3     19.5     19.6     19.6      19.7
imports of GUfS                   18.7     19.9      17.0     17.8     18.2     18.3      18.4
Doesti. Savngs                     36.0     21.9      25.4     24.0     22.9     22.5      22.4
Net Factor Inco                   -5.4     -1.8      -1.8     .1.3     -1.5     -1.8      -1.7
Current Trenfers                   3.1      0.4      0.9       0.6      0.6      0.6       0.5
Gross Natonal Svins                33.7     20.5     24.4      23.3     21.9     21.2     21.2
.............. a    ......................
Sources: ortd Bakestimates



-49-                                                 A
Page S of 9
REuBLiC oF POLAND
AGRULTURE SEcToR ADJUSTMENr LOAN
Table 4: Main Economic Jndlcators
.............................................. ..................... ........................................... ...........................................
1990  1991  /      1992     1993      1994     1995      1996
..........-- ........         ......Actual.-..-e............... "stimat ...e................
(Growth Rates)
Gross Domestte Product            -11.9     -7.6       0.1      3.0       4.0      4.5       4.5
Consumption                       -14*7      5.8     -3.1       3.4       4.7      4.9       4.6
Pubtfc                           0.2     -?.8      -3.6      1.2       1.0      0.8       1.6
Private                        -16.6      7.9      -3.0      3.7       5.1      S.4       4.9
Priv constuption per Cap.    -16.9      7.s      .3.3      3.3       4.?       5.0      4.6
Investment                       -24.8    -14.2       .2.0      5.4       4.3      4.4       4.0
Fixed Capital formation          -1O.6     -4.5       4.0      3.0       3.5      4.0       4.0
man Govar uuwt                  -11.9     -0.9       ?.8      0.4       0.?       1.0      0.9
Govnermnt (MNPS)                 -1.3    -26.6    -28.1      35.4      29.6     25.4      22.0
Changes In Stocks   21            -5.4     -2.8      -1.4      0.6       0.2      0.1       0.0
Inflatfon (Average)              585.8X    70.3X    45.6X    32.6X    20.0x    10.OX         5.02
Inflation (end-of-period)        249.35    60.4X      45.8X    25.3X     17.05     5.0X      5.05
Real Wages (end-of-per)           -30.0      3.2      *8.0      3.0
(Ntllion USS)
Exports, Conv. Currency         10862.7  12760.0  14131.8  15035.5  1S934.1  17018.9  18477.4
lports, ConY. Currency         8649.3  12709.0  13051.9  14360.7  1S453.1  165.5  17920.0
Trade altanee                  2213.4     51.0   1079.9    674.8    481.0    434.4    557.4
(percent of GDP)                 3.6       0.1       1.2      0.7       0.5      0.4       0.5
(percent of GOP)
Current Account, Cown. Currnc       1.0     -1.1       0.6      0.3  *0.2  *0.7              -0.6
Of Whfch: NICA                   6.4      0.8       2.4       1.6      1.3       1.1       1.1
(Growth Rates)
Total Exports XSUfS  3/            1.1    -13.6        5.3      2.6       3.8       4.2       5.0
Total tports NGNFS  31            -10.2     16.0      -5.0      6.0       5.9       S.0      4.9
Real Exchange Rate (1989-100)      80.8    126.6    136.0    134.1    132.9    132.7    132.7
Change In MINR NUS alli tf)     -4442.0   1317.0  -1100.0       0.0  -1200.0   -800.0   -800.0
Gross Reserves (months NOS)         6.2      4.7       S.5      5.7       6.1       6.1      S.9
Fiscal Indicators: (percent of GOP)
General Gvmnt.: Tot Revens         45.8     36.6      35.2     36.5      3?.t      36.9      37.1
Tot ExpenWdtures   42.9      40.3     42.3      42.1      40.9     39.7      39.9
8alnce              2.9       3.?     -7.0      -5.6     *3.2      -2.8      -2.8
................................... :................................................... 
1/ Preliminary
2/ Contribution to GDP growth
3/ National Aecounts data
Source:  Government Authorities nd World Bank Estimates



-50-
Page 6 of 9
REPUBLIC OF PoLAND
AGRICULTIRE SECroR ADJUS7MENT LOAN
Table 5S: Balace of Payments
(US$ Million)
1990      191       1t992     1993       1994      195        1t996
................ I..................................................
Currene Ace. lalance                  641.9   -022.4      515.4     273.2    -248.2   -7n4.0    -671.0
ct of GP)                             -1.0      -1.1       0.S       0.3       -0.2      -0.7       -0.4
Trade Stanc,e                        2213.4      St.0    1079.9    674.8       431.0     434.4      557.4
Exports of Goods                   1C862.1   12760.0   14131.8  1t035.5   15934.1   17018.9   18477.4
tn p rts of Goods                  8649.3  12709.0   13051.9  14360.7   15453.1   16584.5   17920.0
......................................................................................................
Services 8alance                    -3504.0  -1181.4  -1364.5  -1001.?   -1329.2   -1775.4   -1828.4
txports of Services                 1908.0   2118.0    2177.3   214s.4    2400.0    2686.1    2960.9
Ron-factor Services                1327.0   1577.0    1677.7    173.7    1882.6   2030.1    2204.1
factor services'                    581.0    541.0      499.6    351.7       517.4     6S6.0      756.8
tmports of Services                5412.0   3299.4    3541.8   3147.0    372s9.2   644.5    4789.3
Mon-factor Services                147?.0   1341.0    1384.7   1523.5    16t4.3    1832.3    2013.9
factor Services                   3935.0   1958.4    2157.1    1623.5    2064.9    263Z.Z   Zm7.s
interest Due 1/                 3935.0    1957.?    2148.2    1600.6    2028.0    2581.3    2696.5
w  **-*X*................................................ *Z...... vsX4.^X...........................  ..........
met Current Trnsfers                 1932.5    308.0      800.0      600.0     600.0     600.0      600.0
........ ............. -*-. ........... wv**s..................   Z* ............... .......-  ..... ........
Capitat Accout                      -2323.9  -2784.3   -1847.2  -1354.5    1447.4    1S14.6   1472.3
..................................... ........................................................................>_
Oisburs n  ts                        428.0    786.0      669.0    1624.1    1531.1    1523.9    1707.1
A rtfuzation due  I/                29s4.0  167.6    1891.2    251.5         283.7      409.3     634.8
Gross debt retired                                                2927.0
Direct Foreign tnvest.                10.0     117.0     200 0      200.0     200.0      400.0     400.0
short-term, NEI                      192.1  -2119.?      825.0
.................... .........................................  *.s.**.*.h..*@o* .............................................. *. ...^.v*v*@.P..
Overstl Balance                     -1682.0  -3606.?   -1331.8   -1081.3    1199.2        770.6     801.3
,,,,.........................................................
financifng
Net Change fn Rfeserves             -4442.0    1317.0   .1100.0        0.0   -1200.0   -800.0    -800.0
GrosS                               4942.0    995.0  -1308.0   -819.0  .1393.0    -950.0    -419.0
Net IMF C. Iner.)                    500.0    322.0      208.0    819.0       193.0      150.0    -311.0
OOSR Totat Cost                                    ..         ..   1017.4
Capitat gain on Buyback                                             2048.9
Oebt Retief/Resched.                 4941.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
Principat                          2446.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
Interost                    .     2495.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Change in Arrears                    1183.0   2289.7    2400.0
Interst                              198.0    1069.?    1000.0
Amorttioaln                          985.0    1220.0    1400.0
,,,,............. *^****sw.*. ........................................................ .Z....^...........
Ffinacing gap                           0.0       0.0      31.8       49.7       0.8       29.4       -1.3
N t...Items:
CDP CNIn LUSS)                      62265.0   78031.9   90213.5   9111.7   99938.2  107093.5  115714.0
Trade Scence tX of 0OP                 3.6       4.1        1.2       0.7       0.5        0.4        0.3
NICA (Mtn WS5)                       3995.9    594.3    2164.1    1522.1    1262.5    1181.4    1268.7
CX of GOP)                         6.4       0.8       2.4        1.6       1.3        1.1       1.1
Exports GNFS CC                     12189.7   14337.0   15809.5   16829.2   1186.7   19049.0   20681.5
leports ONFS CC                     10126.3   14050.0   14436.6   15884.3   17117.3   18416.7   19933.9
DO0NLT CHtn USS)                    48774.9  47373.8  48449.8  45U29.0  4Z829.4   43973.4   45044.4
DObt/GDP, C                            78.3      60.7       53.7      47.5      42.9       41.1       38.9
OOMNLT (X of EXPS)                    381.9     318.4      297.1    263.1      233.6      223.2      210t
tnt oDo/EXPOS                          30.8      13.2       13.2       9.3      11.1       13.1       12.6
CInt+Aft)IEXPG8 (due)                  53.9      23.7       24.8      10.8      12.6       15.2       1S.5
:tntAmit)/EXPGS (pald)                  5.8       8.3       10.1      10.8      12.6       15.2       15.5
tnt due/GDP                             6.3       2.5        2.4       1.7       2.0        2.4        2.3
Net Res Levet (Months of ii)            5.6       4.0        4.6       4.4       4.7        4.8        4.8
(HMn USO)             6592.0    5275.0    6375.0   6375.0    7575.0    8375.0    9175.0
...... ......................................................
1/ Exctudes cancetted and converted obtigations.
Source: Government Authorittes and World lank Estinates



REPUBLIC OF POLAND
AGRICULTURE SECIrOR ADJUSIMNT LAoAN
Tabb 6. External Sector - Sources and Uses of Funds
Summary Table - After DDSR"
(US$ Bilhon)
.... ...  ................... ........ .............. .................................. ...................................................................................................... ................................................
1991       (X)             1992        tX)         t991-95        (X)       1996-2000        (%)        19" 12000       (1)
....,,,,,,,,..,.. ... .... ..,..,,.,.,,. .,,.,.. .......... ....,.,... ... ... .... ... ... .... ... ... .... ... ...                                             ... ... ... ...
1. Uses of funds                                       4.6         100.0           6.1         100.0         23.7         100.0          23.6        100.0          47.3         100.0
1. Total Payments Due  1/                              3.5          75.8           4.0          65.8          tS.5         65.4          21.3          90.4         36.A          7.9
old Debts   (Of Which)                              3.4          73.6           3.9         63.8          13.2          55.7         12.9          54.6          26.1         55.2
Paris Club                                         0.5         11.2           0.6           9.7           4.0          16.8          8.3          35.3         12.3          26.0
London Club                                       2.2          47.9           2.4          38.4           6.0         25.2           2.3           9.9          8.3          17.6
CMEA                                               0.3          S.9           0.4           6.8           1.1           4.8          1.1           4.8          2.3           4.8
Other 2/                                           0.4          8.6           0.5           8.9           2.1          8.8           1.1           4.7           3.2          6.8
New Debts  (Of Which)                               0.1           2.2           0.1          2.0           2.3           9.7          8.4          35.8          10.7         22.7
gew Uiltteral Loans                               0.0           0.8           0.0           0.6           0.5          2.1           3.0          12.7          3.5           7.4
IRD                                              0.0           0.4           0.0           0.7           0.6          2.7           3.3         13.9           3.9           8.3
IMF                                               0.0           1.1           0.0           0.7           1.2          4.9           2.1          9.0           3.3           6.9
Other (gapfiler Loans int)                         0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.1          0.0           0.2           0.1          0.1              L
2. Change in Cross Reserves  3)                        -1.0        -21.4            1.3         21.3           3.5          14.7          2.3           9.9           S.8         12.3
3. Coonercial Creditors DOSR  4/                                                                               1.9           8.0                                      1.9          4.0
4. Other  5/                                            2.1         4S.6           0.8          12.9           2.8          12.0         -0.1          -0.3           2.8          S.8
...................................................................................................................................................
I1. Sources of Funds                                   4.6         100.0           6.1         100.0         23.7         100.0          23.6        100.0          47.3        100.0
1. New Debt                                            1.1          23.8           0.9          14.3           8.6         36.3           8.9         37.9          17.5         37.1
of whichs ISRO                                      0.3           7.5           0.3          4.4           3.6          15.2          3.6          15.4           7.2         15.3
I"F                                    0.3          6.9           0.2           3.4           2.5          10.4          0.0           0.0           2.5          S.2
ERD, EI, and Other                     0.4           9.4           0.4          9.4           2.5          10.7           5.3         22.5           7.8         16.6
2. Dfl                                                 0.1           2.5           0.2           3.3           1.1          4.7           2.3           9.7          3.4           7.2
3. MICA                                                 1.1         24.4           2.7          43.4           9.3         39.2          12.4          S2.4         21.7          45.8
4. Arrears (Coinerclat Credito^s)                       2.3         49.2           2.4          39.1           4.7          19.8                                     4.7           9.9
........................................................................................................... .............................................................................................................. ...................
1/ Includes all payments due on ongoing schedules with the Paris Club and Coamerclal creditors
Assumes comp4etion of the first phase of the Paris Ctub afre_mnt (May 1991).
2/ including  INF purchases
3/ includes the estimated total outfteo  of the commerciat ODSR.
4/ Includes credit extended, and capital not elsetiere identified (Capital MEI * gap filler loans)
Source:  world Sank Estimates                                                                                                                                                                      _



-52 -AM
Page 8 of 9
REPUBLIC OF POLAN
AGRICULTU  SECroR ADUSTMNT LOAN
Tabb 7: Debt lndicatos
(US8$ MM"io)
1991      1992        1993      199         199        199
aI.s .Clu.b                                                                     *     ...268.............................4.......... ...
m0 eOfperlod                       306.    3066.1    04.5   27019.0    W970.0    UU7.4
oftebrseant                            0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Stmoctutte                             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       490.0      122.6
Cancettlon * Debt raltf             2131.2                           UVA.8
intet                                52.8       196.3       e.        931.7.   1349.?    1345.4
other IP'S and Ulitteral (mnct. 3310. Its)
occ a*f-peeod                        460.0      860.0    1360.0    1813.3    2455.8    3248.3
Dfsburmemnt                           36.0      408.0      500.0      100.0      700.0       900.0
Aartf2titon                            0.0        0.0        0.0       46.a       57.5       107.5
Interest                              35.4       3S.0       66.6      104.9      156.1      222.8
Lordon Club
sOm  fn.fepqrlod                   117m3.5    12684.0    8748.0    8748.0       8748.0     8748.0
Disbursamnt                            0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Amorti ttiofn                       1318.4     1316.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Cancllatfon - Debt retff                                  2927.0
terest                               910.0     1040.0      511.6      43.53      448.0      461.3
CHUA
DC0 end-ofperled                    2322.7     2076.0    1294.4    1268.0       1241.5      1189.6
D1sbursement                           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Amrtxition                            37.8      246.7       56.5       26.3       26.5        S1.9
ancelalatfon * Debt reltef                                 7.1
IntereSt                    .        185.5      172.5      132.2      100.5       98.4      "9.3
Other uaranteed Credits
Oend .f.pertod                       4C3.8      371.6      299.5      227.4       15S.3       98.8
01sbur5euent                           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Amortftaten                           68.6       72.1       72.1       n.1        72.1        56.5
Interest                              24.3       18.        t 15.5     12.1        8.8        5.9
Other Credits
am endo-afp.rod                     1363.6     11W072      932.3      843.8      729.4       618.0
Dfsbursement                         350.6        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Amortizatstn                          92.9      226.4      124.9      138.3      114.3       111.5
Interest                             122?T    . 110.2       93.2       81.5       70.2       60.1
cO endof-period                      403.4      672.4    1796.5    2827.6       3561.7    4184.0
Ofsbursement                         349.4      269.0    1124.1    1031.1         823.9      80?.1
o/W Us DOSR supprt                                        550.0
Amortization                           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       89.8       184.8
Interest                              17.2       40.3       90.1      168.8      223.6      *271.1
Other Credits - Gpil t
DM0  ed-of-perfed                      0.0       31.8       81.6       33.4       111.8      110.4
Disburse*ent                           0.0       31.8       49.7        0.8       39.4        *1.3
Amortfzatfon                           0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
Interest                               0.0        0.6        2.4        4.2        6.0         7.5
TOTAL
DOONLI nd-of-porod                 47373.8    48449.8   45209.0  . 429.4    43975.4    45044.4
oDstursement                         736.0      469.0    1624.1    1531.1        1523.9     1707.1
Arortitatfon                        1567.6     1891.2      21.5       283.7       409.3      634.8
Interest (itnl ST lnt)              1907.9    2103.6    1539.4    1927.2        2450.9      2559.4
(Cn Zloty)                        501025.2  656931.5  783067.1  87n620.1  960?11.3  999338.0
moo:
Short Term Debt Interest               90.0       90.0       90.0       90.0       90.0        90.0
1"# positfan                          822.0     1030.0    1849.0    2042.0       2192.0      1881.0
Pich ses                              312.0      200.0      959.0      520.0      450.0         0.0
c/v Closs support                                          510.0
Repurthases                             0.0        0.0      140.0      321.0      300.0       311.0
Charges                                49.8       44.6       61.2      100.8       130.5      137.1
...  ...........,.........................    _.............



REPUBLIC OF POLAND
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table 8: Creditworthiness and Bank Exposure
(US$ Milion)
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1991-1995   1996-2000
....,,,.,,    ..   .   ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.................................. ,.,,,,.,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,.,.,..,,.................................._,,,,,.,._,,,,._
DODNLT  I/                             48774.9 47373.8 48149.8 45209.0 42829.4 43973.4 45044.4          45567.1      46428.5
000 18RD                                  54.0   403.4   672.4  1796.5  2827.6  3561.7  4184.0            1852.3      4986.8
Payments Due IMRD                          2.0    17.2    40.3    90.1   168.8   313.4   455.9            126.0        656.2
oao flIF                                 500.0   822.0  1030.0  1849.0  2042.0  2192.0  1881.0            1587.0      1152.1
Payments Due IMF                          25.0    49.8    44.6   201.2   427.8   430.5   448.1            230.8        422.6
DOD EIB, E8RD, New Bilat.                374.0   460.0   860.0  1360.0  1813.3  2455.8  3248.3           1389.8       4858.3
Payments Due EIB, E8RD, lNeo Bilat.       15.7    35.4    35.0    66.6   151.7   213.6   330.3            100.4        600.5
DODNLT (% of GDP)                         78.3    60.7    S3.7    47.5    42.9    41.1    38.9             49.2         34.4
DOD1LT (X of EXPGS)  2/                  381.9   318.4   297.1   263.1   233.6   223.2   210.1            267.1        183.8
Interest Due/EXPGS                        30.8    13.2    13.2       9.3    11.1    13.1    12.6           12.0         11.0
Totat Debt Service/EXPGS (due)            53.9    23.7    24.8    10.8    12.6    1S.2    15.5             17.4         15.4
Total Debt Service/EXPGS (paid)            5.8      8.3    10.1    10.8    12.6    15.2    15.5            11.4         15.4
8ank Exposure: (X)
DOD 1iRDt/DODLT                            0.1      0.9      1.4     4.0      6.6     8.1      9.3          4.2         1O.7
DOD lBRO/Mem Debt                          5.8    23.9    26.2    35.9    42.3    43.4    44.9             34.4        45.4
Payments De IO/XGS                         0.0      0.1     0.2      0.5      0.9     1.6      2.1          0.7         2.S
Payments Oue IORD/Total Pets Due           0.0      0.5      1.0     4.9      7.3    10.5    13.7           4.8         16.4
Pref.erred Creditors: (M) 3/
DOD PREF CRED/Dt-'4LT                      1.4      3.0     4.2      9.3    13.1    15.3    16.3            9.0         17.4
Payments Due PREF CRED/XCS                 0.3      0.5     0.6      1.9      3.6     4.2      4.8          2.2         5.2
Pants Due PREF CRED/Total Puts DOe         0.5      2.3     2.5    17.2    28.4    27.7    31.1            15.6        33.5
....................................................... ........................... ....................... . .....
I/ Assumes successful coipletion of debt negotiations.
2/ Exports of Goods and Services include trade in Convertible Currency.
All trade made in convertible currency since 1991.
3/ Includes BRD. IlMF, EBRO. & EIB.
Source: World Bank Estimates



-SS-                                    AN=   2
Page 1 of 15
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
AGRICULTURE SECrOR ADwurMENT LOAN
LETTER FROM THE GOVERNME  OF POLAND ON lrs
NEDIUM-TERM POLICY FOR THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
The World Bank
Washdngt, D.C.
November 19, 1992
Dear Mr. Prston,
The Economic Tansformain Program launched in 1990 by the Government of
Poland had two main objectives: stabilize the economy and accelerate systemic changes
leading to a market economy. The main elemts of the stblization program were to lift
all price controls; to unify foreign xchange marets and to remove import controls and
export restrWcons; to limit wage increases; to achieve fiscal balance; and, finally, to tighten
credit policy. Stuctual reforms focused on four key areas: acceerated p tization and
restruc     of public enterpies, private sector development; reform of the financial sectow,
and deveopment of a social safety net.
These m -economic and strucal adjustment policies provide a solid foundaton
for the process of structual changes currently undery in agriculture, which is a vital sector
of our economy.
Despite the exstence of various problems related to the market-oriented
tansformation of the economy, including institutional constaints, the agricutural sector and
rurl areas in most regions of Poland offers good prospects for recovery and growth.
To acelera  changes in the agricultural sector and in rural areas, our Government
has now adopted a Medium Term Sector Adjustment Progm  (herft  'the Program')
which it intends to implement over the next throe years. This Program ret on the premise
that, while current mac-reconomic reforms are necessary conditions to achieve significant
improvements in the sector, they are not sufficient to overcome stuctural onstraints and to
develop a competitive, market-based economy in agriculture and in rural areas.
The Proam, which is presented in the Annex to this letter, has been dedgned takdng
full account of the findings of thejoint 1990 World BanEuropean Community/Government
of Poland Task Force which analyzed opins for an agrcultur development stategy. The



-56-                                   AM= 2
Page 2 of 15
overall objecdves of the Government's Program are to improve the productivity and
efficiency of the agricuiral sector and to increse standards of living in rural areas. More
specifically, the objecdves of the Program are the following:
(1)  to maintain an apprpriate price and trae policy environment for agficultural
producers and traders, to graduaUy stabilize price fluctuations in agricultural
commodity markets, and to gradually reduce the use of general credit
subsidies and replace them with a controlled program of subsidies for farm
modernization to increase efficiency;
(2) to improve the process of selection, evaluation and implementation of public
investment programs in the agricultural sector;
(3)  to create the legal, mateial and organizonal conditions for the development
of a dynamic market-based economy in rural areas, supporting ifrastructure
development and the promotion of employment through micro- and medium-
size enterprise development;
(4)  to aclerate the pnivatization of state-owned entrpris  and the
transformaton of cooperatives, to foster their restructuring and their
adaptaton to the new market situation, and to improve the enabling
environment for the development of the non-public sector, coopeive and
private in the agdcultural marketing and processing sector;
(5)  to create an adve market for agriculural land, through an accelerated process
of privatization and res   g  of state farms, a progrm  of land
consolidation, reforms of cadastl and land-titling procedures, and socio-
economic measures aimed at improving the size and magement of pzivate
fams;
(6)  to reform the agricultal resch, extension and educaion system to adapt
it to the needs of the private farming and business enterpries in rural areas
sector and to the conditions of a market economy; and, finally,
(7)  to reoniz the instiuonal structure of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Food Economy and to adjust its staff and resources to respond effectively to
the needs of the sector in a maket-based economy.
We would like to point out that significant measues have already been taken to meet
these objectives. So far, virally all agricultural producer and export subsidies have been
imnad, and the remaining subsidies going to the sector are now explicitly included in the
budget; admnstratve prices for agdcutural products and prement of agtural
products by the Govenment has been abolished; consumer suidies on food have been
liminated; and, in spite of the difficult international environment, import dudes on
agrcultrl impors have been set at low levels by internatonal standards, export taxes have



-57-                                  ANNEX2
Page 3 of 15
been eiminated, and all quantitative restrictions on arcultural imports and exports have
been removed. Importnt legal and institutional steps have also been taken in the last two
years. For Instance, legal pinciples regarding land lease have been modified and area
restrictions for fanns have been lifted; a State Agricultural Property Agency has been
recently creat, with the task to manage and transfer to the private sector publicly-owned
land; de-monopolization and privatization of substantial segments of the agroindustrial sector
is under way and finaly efforts have been made to stabilize agncultural markets and protect
farm incomes through the mterventions of the Agency for Agricultural Markets.
*        The Government intends to vigorously pursue these efforts and to achieve the
-    objectives of the Program in a period of three years. This will require the maintenance of
macrmeconomic stability, assistance directed at human resource development, effective
nstitutional restructuring, and a conscious effort to stimulae private initiative through
*   infusion of investment finance in the rurl sector.
The institutional framework, policy instruments and action programs designed to
achieve the specfic medium-term objectives mentioned above are descibed below.
L Agklua Phrce anLd TMM&r ll
AgdadholPrice Polic
As mentioned above, the agriculural price system has already been liberalized.
Agricultural producer subsidies have been eliminated, fixed administrative prices for
agrcultural commodities have been eliminated, and consumer food subsidies have been
eiminaed. Agricultural prices are now detmined largely by the market.
The objective of Poland's agriculture price policy is to spport the stabiliztion of the
agricultura market. The Government does not intend to influence the setting of agricultural
prs, other than though the Agency for Agricultural Markets (heraft, 'the Agency')
which has been created with the functon of limiting short-term fluctations in agricultural
prices and through taiff policy. The Agency (Agencja Rynku Rolnego), cated in 1990, is
entrsted by Law with the task of "stabilizing farm product markets and protctg farm
incomes."
No admini ive nterventions are intended in basic agricultua  product and
foodstuffs markebt. The Agency intends to opeate incasgly accmding to commercial
principle. The efficiency of the Agency's operations can therefore be measred by the
extent to which budgetary resources can be retained by the Agency as worling capital. Given
the size of the Agency's capital, there ae good prospects for putflng its operatons on a
competive basis.
Efficient management will widen the scope of market interventions without requiring
a coonding inrease in budgetary resources by the Agency. Involvement of the budget



-58-                                   AN= 2
Page 4 of 15
in financing interventions of the Agency shall be limited to a minimum. Thus, the budget
resources allocated to the Agency for interventions in 1991 and planned for 1992 may be
treated as an supplementary in relation to the equity fund of the Agency. The budget of
ARR was increased from Zl 887 billion in 1990 to Zl 1.9 tillion in 1991, of which only part
was used for intervention. The 1991 figure represents roughly the combined 1990 budget
of the Agency and the rea cost of maintaining state food reserves, adjusted for inflation in
1990. The net subsidy element involved in 1991 is thus substantally less an the full budget
allocaion to the Agency. Since adequate equity for intervention purposes has now been
invested in the Agency tirough previous budget transfers, the Government's budget for 1993
for intevention activities shall not exceed, in percentage terms, the 1991 amount by more
than one-half of the rate of inflation contained in the budgeting assumptions of the Ministry
of Finance. The budget for ARR intervention activities in subsequent years shall be on a
declining basis.
The accounts, bookkeeping and audit procedures for funds used to finance State food
reserves will be kept separate from those used for market interventions, which will be done
on a commedcl basis, and from those used for administeing mandated interventions on
which, by definition, the Agency will incur losses.
The scope of activities of the Agency is the following:
First, the Agency is responsible for managing State Food Reserves.State food reseves
have been substantally reduced in respect to their former size. Minimum and
average levels of food reserves to be held by the Agency are set by the Prime
Minister. The Agency will make every effort to minimize the costs of mtaining
such reserves, mainly by using competitive bidding procedures for rights to store,
maintain and deal in reserves. The Agency will seek to be reimbursed for the full
cost of maintining and turning over food reserves and for losses, justified by
technical or secunty reasons, fixed in advance and permussible. The fnacmg of
possble excessive storage costs of reserves due to mandated locations and vatieties
mandated will be re-examined.
Second, the Agency interves in selected agiculal and food markets. The
objective of ese interventions is to stabilize prices on basic agicultual and food
markets. Interventions are normally canried out at prices which are lower than
undistorted world market prices, but in no case are interventions intended at prices
higher than world market price trends.
In both cases, pursuant to the Law, the Agency subnits quarterly reports on its
opeation. In the case of the first type of intervention, the Agency opAtes in accordance
with Resoluton Nr. 94 of the Council of Ministers which defines the scope of its activities.
The program of actons of the Agency is adopted by the Agricultural Market Agency Council
and intervention prices for basic products are approved by the Council of Minters. As
mentioned above, the Agency operates according to commercial principles and in the fitmre



-59-                                    N
Page 5 of 15
it wil be posible to use as an indicator of the efficiency of its future operations the fact that
it will not require additional subsidies fom the budget.
In both cases, to carry out interventions, the Agency intends to incresngly enter into
contracts with no immediat delivery imvolved, such as commodity futures contracts.
Third, already during the current year, Uhe Agency. wil provide support for the
development of market infstructure for agricultural products, such as commodity
exchanges, wareouse networks, maket informaion centers, etc. This indirect form of
intervention will be mainly accomplished through the provision of credit guwantees, and in
some cases, through limited capital investment when such support for interventionist
meas is reqired.. It is aimed at suorting private sector development, promoting
competition and developing market institutions, including local commodity exchanges,
wholesale and retail markets in the agcultural and food sector. Moreover, the Agency
enten into cont     aangements with private owners of cereal storage, storage coolers,
etc.
Finally, the Agency will carry out market assessments and foecasts such as forcs
of market prces for basic agricultural products. Such activities are of general value to
armers and form the basis for determining intervention levels and prices. The Agency
participates in the Polish-American agriciutura market assessment and forecasting program.
The Agency is not intreing with the development of the private sector. Quite the
opposite, the Agency is supporting private sector development through its activities. The
Agency will use a contracting system based on delayed delivery for its purchases. The
Agency will support the development of various internal market and foreign-trade related
nitions, such as councils of agricultural producers and exporters. The Agency is
committed not to participate in arbitrage on the domestic market, since this is already being
done by private merhnts. In order to ensure the conformity of its activities with the
existing ti-monopoly legislation, the Agency shall also agree to undertake specific anti-trust
actions.
In the long term, as the infastructure of the market economy and the private sector
develops in Poland, the objective of the Government is to implement all ARR operations
through the private sector.
Agrclhural MM& n  o4
The Government is committed to keep Poland's  ,dicultural markets open to accepted
practies of international competition and not to subsidize exports. On the import side, the
tariff and regulatory structure adopted by our Govemment for agricultural products makes
the Polish agncultua sector a tading partner in the world markets, opeting under the
accepted GATr principles. The present tanff structure on agricultural and food products will
not be modified exccpt in case of unfair trade practices on the part of our trading partners.
The Government is also examining the possibility to bind its tariffs in the context of GATT



- 60 -                                ANNEX2
Page 6 of 15
and to join the GAIT Anti-Subsidy Code. This would provide Poland with additional legal
insuments to deal with unfair trade practices, especially the dumping of subsidized food
products on the Polish market.
The Government is also committed to coordinate its tariff policy with its
rondustrial restructuing  progams. To that effect, it will carry out a study of the
protection structure of the food processing industry and implement, if necessary, gradual
tarff reduction measures, phased with the rtructuring programs for domestic
agroindustries, with the objective to avoid setting tariffs for processed products higher than
those for agriculual raw materials.
Quantitative restictions on imports and exports as well as export taxes have been
abolished. Poland's markets are essentally completely open. The only remaining export
restictions are related to intemational trade agreements accepted by Poland such as the
voluntary self-restaint on eports of specific agricultura products to European Community
marlkts. The Government and the Euopean Commuiity have reached an agreement on the
principles of a gradual elimination of these restrictions. The Government is committed not
to subsidize agncultural eports, through the Agency for Agricultural Markets or otherwise,
and to maintain a policy of no quantitative restrictions on its imports of agricultural products.
Government's future tmde policy will be defined by current and future intenaional
agreements: the renegotiation of the Protocol of Accession to the GATr, the Agreement of
Association with EFrA countries and, most importantly, by the provisions of the Ageement
of Association with the European Community. In these negotiations, Poland is committed
to the goal of free trade in all products including agriculture and processed food. The extent
to which this goal can be achieved will depend significantly on the trade concessions offered
by the European Community. Poland is also negotiating new trading arangements with its
Eastern and Central European neighbors.
Ag,dcdultu  Subsid  olc
The Government has taken the important step of including al subsidies provided to
agriculture explicitly in the budget. Virtually all direct subsidies to agriculture have been
eliminated. The only remaining subsidies in the sector are credit subsidies, and these have
been reduced significantly over the past year. Absolute credit subsidy levels, at some Zl 750
billion in 1991, represent a very small part of public expenditures in the agricultural sector
(about 5.5 percent).
The Government recognzes that credit subsidies can have advere effects on finsoncial
markes, and it is committed to gradually reduce and eventually eliminate them. Howevtr,
in the short term, the Goveent will make use of this instrument in a limited way, for both
investment and turnover credit, in order to avoid disruptions in agricultural production and
incomes.



-61-                                   A
Page 7 of 15
bn the medium term, as competitive markets evolve, farmers adjust to fte new
environment, and support services improve, Government is committed to the elimination of
subsidi  on interest for agriculral credit. Government policy will depend partly on the
level of domestic inflation and on stable relative prices. If inflation continues to drop, it may
be possible to discontinue subsidies to turnover credit altogether. If inflation picks up again,
the Government will have to rely on limited subsidies for short-term credit for stategic
activities, but it will not permit the use of lage credit subsidies to agiculture, since that
would only compound the country's macroeconomic difficulties.
Since the moderization of private fams is critical to the rationaliztion of the sector,
the Government plans to contiue to subsidize a limited volume of credit for on-arm
modernization unti interest rates drop to levels below 20 percent.
in its effort to move away from subsidized interest res, the Government will not
subsidize credit for rural infrastructure prects. The experence over the past year has
confimed the app       s of financing rural infastructure through direct cash grants or
through a mix of development credit and grants.
Finally, the Government expects that the accedaon of ownership and management
traformation in the state sector will significandy reduce the pressure for subsidized interest
rates.
M I  ffLon and Restruturn of A
Tne objective of the Government is to improve the efficiency of the agricultural
marketing and procssing sector, and to overcome inefficiencies in the orgnization of the
sector itself and in the quality of management. Govemment has sdected rapid pnvaization
of state agroindustial assets as the preferred mode of transformation of the food economy.
The Govenmment feels that the privadzation drive will result in substantial improvements in
enterprise efficiency by providing better incentives to labor, management and capital.
Participation of agricultural producers in the privatiztion process will strengthen and
improve ties between the processing and producing sectors(reliability and quality of business
partnerships, settement of accounts, etc)
Important actions have already been taken in the sector. First, the Anti-monopoly
Office has been active in the process of de-monopolization of agroindustry and the break-up
of the 42 voivodship- (qw6jdzwo-) based grain milling and storage 'PZZ' (Pa nstwwe
Zakay   Zbozowe) enteqrises is in progress. Second, a large number of state-owned
agroindustial enterprises, in particular, in the agriculture services sector have been
prvatized, either through "liquidation, " transformation into commercial companies lOeveraged
buy out usually pardy involving the workers) or through joint ventures with foreign parters.
Finally, unions of coopeaves have been liquidated in the agricultural marketing and
processng sector and a new self-management based organizational structure of rural
cooperattves is being prepared.



-62-                                   ANNMI2
Page 8 Of 15
In order to acoomplish those objecves, the Govenment intends to pue two seu
of acdons vis-a-vis the agricultural poessg and maketi  sectO:    , pri on and
restructuring actions based on a coherent stategy for each agsouduial  bsector. The
Government is cuently ppargsuch    gic policy documets. Specific rtr tringand
privatization measures wi be proposed on ths basis. Second, time-bound program of actions
to impre the en=?.ing e  ent for the agicltur poeing and markeftng sector as
a whole. An Interminicl Commission (MadVysoaoy Zsp6l do Spraw Phwyzaci
tmcienka Robictva) is responsible for coordinaing the various privatizaon and policy
decisins in the agricudtur and agrdustial sector.
anXdse Pindim and              n
The Govement is committed to proceed with the pnivation of stewned
agroindustries at an acclated pace and to take te neesu y accompan  meases to
facilite the tfmatin of the sector. The actions of the Government ae guided by sub-
sectora sdi, commiined by the Mistry of Privatization and pepaed by consultants,
presenting a preiminary analysis of the peormace of the subsector and an assessment of
the economic, financial. and tchnical viability of the eneprises, and prioiziAg
restructurg actons.
The Government is committed to pree and implement, in each agroindusial
subsecto, aacton programs and timetables for   implementIon over the pesiod 1992193
which will include the fllowing elemts.
*  Guideines for founding orns and Treasury agences to handle
privatration applications, negotiations, nage nt  d seision of
stae assets and the privat on of state assets in each agroindusial
subsoctor, which would facit  the decentlization of the privatization
process.
*  Model contacts ('contrats-programmes') between the enteprs on the
one hand and Treasuy agencies and local autorities, on the other
concering user fees or otier arrangements for water teatment faciLtie
and public infrastrutr, and c   ompensation fasi   for displaced
worker or other social functions carried out by the enteWrprise.
*  PoLicies and guideines for restructing of enterpses; designate
implementing agencies for the  sucng proce and define the roles
of the different agencies involved in agrwndustrial r;
liquiton procedures for non-viable statened enteises.
*  Accompanying meas  related to (a) price and trade policy adaptd to
the specific condins of the subsector; (b) specific acions to inprove
managemelt during the process of piazaion; (c) anti-trust regulations
adapted to the specific conditions of the subsector and monitoing of



-63 -                                   MM  2
Page 9 of 1S
competitiveness in the subsector, especaly at the regional and local
level; (d) research and techical assisance progams in selected
subsectors.
The GoVement will also put its efforts in improving the enabling environment for
agricultural marbktg and pocsing, in order to adess the pecific needs of the private
secto. Specifically, over the coming tee year peiod, the folowing reforms wil be
accomplished.
* An action plan for the development of a network of commodity
excbanges, wholesale wareouws and reail marke has been prepared
and implemented. The objective of this actin plan is to introduce
ipovements in the markting network of agricutural products,
promote competition, reduce market-g costs and diversfy outlets.
The plan will pmpose specific actions and financing mechanisms, in
lose consultai with p          and local authorities, t develop
the inuctre  for commodity exchanges, fresh produce and
livestock wholesale maets, etc. First initiativesrects) in this area
are already under wayoznan), Katowice and Warsaw.
*  Preparation and impmnttI of an acion program to improve
environmentl standards in the food industry. The Govement is
committed to adopt an updated it of hazb dous levels of toxic
subsances in foodu        and reform  reuato   concerning
environmentally sae use of inputs in        plnts.
*  Preparation and implem       of an action progm to rationalize the
netwk of inions deang with s=a           n and inspton of
food products, quality control and conmer protction. This progam
will incude darifyg the scope of acvity, product covege and
inrmts of the existng insdtitions; making the
necesay staff and resource adjustments; prepang and enactg legal
refoms; trans        some funci -such as export and import
cetification-to the private sector, and impoing the equipment,
laboras and staff capblities in remaining insttions. Important
fiscal aings will result from a rationaliton of the network of
Agencis involved in this fild which currently empoys 25,000
es.
*  Preaa     and enactment of legal reforms conceing contatual
trade arraements and i    ements in atraion procedura in the
flowing are   commercial contacts for agricutdual products,
lability of  pecific profions such as commodity brokers,



- 64 -                                 AN=  2
Page 10 of 15
commission agents, licensing procedures, regulation and superison
of commodity exchanges and in respect to the functioning of sub-sector
organizations in the producing, processing and exportng sectors.
m. Land Poly and State Fawms
Land Polic
Significant changes have already been introduced in the field of land policy and
legsation. For instance, maximum area restrictions and operating restrictions for farms
have been lifted. Land transactions by legal persons are now allowed. The duration of
leasing contacts has been extended to 30 years, and retiring farmers have been allowed as
lessors. Administrative restrictions to the purchase of state-owned land have been removed.
The land tax system has been modified. Together with the recently adopted law on
privatization of state agricultural property, these measures represent new foundations on
which the private market for farm land can develop.
Over the coming years, the Government is committed to pursue further efforts to
develop the private land market, to ncrease farm size and improve the economic viability
of farms, and to improve the age strucure of the farming population through three types of
actons.
First, the Govemment will intensify its land consolidation program, although this has
to be viewed in the context of the scarcity of budgetary resources over the coming years.
Consolidation is currently performed each year on some 50,000 hectres. The Govenment
has agreed to consolidate a minimum of 2 million hoctr of land in the next 20 years. The
Government intends to increase its program to 100,000 ha annually subject to the budget
available. Despite the likely budget constraint, these efforts will be intensified through better
organization, imprved technology and possibly higher fiscal resources resulting from land
privatization. The Council of Mini'.ers has created a Fund for Farm Restructuning and
Modernization which, inter alia, will assist in the land consolidation and restructuring of
farmland.
Second, the land cadastre will be unified and modemized. Data on titles kept in
noil offices will be harmoized with the land rgstes. Cadast  methods will be
improved, introducing computer technology and lining the cadastre with the land regster
system. Accomplishment of t.5s long term objectve will require external assistance, both
technical and financial. The legal framework for land transactions and rural infrastructure
will also be improved. Work is currently undo way on a daft law on the organization of
rural areas and agricultural farms, which will be submitted to Parliament in 1992.
Third, specific socio-stuctu  actions will be undertaken in order to improve the
economic viability of farms, increase farm size, and induce changes in the age strucre of
the farming population. They include incentives for retiring farmers and (favorable) legal,



-65 -                                  A&X2
Page 11 of 15
economic and    onal conditions for young farm-managers; promotion schemes for
employment in rral non-agricultural activities; as well as measures to promote the
development of the rural market economy, rural infrastructure, professional and cooperative
ognizations.
RlhaSaio -and PtEgdugo  tte Farms
The Parlfament has adopted in October 1991 a law on agricultural assets owned by
the State Treasury. The law covers state-owned farms and land owned by the State Lind
Fund, and establishes a new institution - called the Ste Agriculur  Property Agency.
This Agency is now charged with the sale, lease, titling and management (though
management contac  or otherwise) of State-owned agricultural assets, including land.
Specifically this Agency will be charged with the restctu    and privatization of State
Tlasury assets being used for agricultural purpse, management of these assets awaiting
privatizon, creation of farms from the old state farms for leasing or selling to private
fmers, management of the assets of the State Land Fund. The Agency also supports job
aton in connection with the restruring of agricultur management.
The rate of privatization of state-owned land will depend on developments in the land
market, on the availability of credit for land purchases and farm improvement, on the
siuion in agriculture and on progress made in developing the administative and technical
capabilities of the Agency. Indications are, however, that privaizaton of Ste-owned land
will take place at an accderated pace. The Government expect to cary out the process of
pivatizaon and resuturing of state farms with the objective of completng the process in
three yea. The lands of the State Land Fund would also be used in this process of
privatization. To facilitate this process, eight regional offices are being created which will
have the legl authority to carry out this process in their respective regions. The
Government expects each region to restructure and privatize at least two state farms in their
areas by September 30, 1992, with a mininumu of 100 farms overall to be privadzed by
December 31, 1993. All state farms will be liquidated by December 31, 1993. In carying
out this work, each of the Agency's regions will eamine its progam in the wider regional
land use context, taking into account needs of the private farming sector, for afforestation
and reon and for land conservatiou needs. Finally, the Government will prepare
legislation on repivaization of agricutural assets under the control of the State Treasury.
IV.   038tsthe hfttuonaramewok orte lopmdeet of theRm   aret
Agricultural problems cannot be resolved without taking into account the rural
economy as a whole. The Goverment is committed to develop a progam for the
retlizaion of the rural sector and its adjusument to the market economy. Policies being
finalized for the development of the rural areas will involve coordinated actions related to
(a) building nrual institutions, (b) financal  ort for rural infstucre development and
(c) the development of new approaches for nral development.



-66-                                   AN2Z
Page 12 of 15
The govenmnt's rural development policy emphasizes the important role of local
governments in the development and financing of rumal infas    and in the promotion
of local private initiatives in rual areas. At the central level, the Ministry of Acudtue
and Food Economy is ctng under the MTSAP a Rural Development Team, in order to
faciliate the development of a medium term rural development action progm  and provide
improved support to local governments efforts. A Rural Development Fund (RDF) will be
created under the responsibility of the Minister of Agrictue and Food Economy to iove
fimding mechanisms for rurl instucture during the transition period and to provide
technical support to local governments in defining and implementing new methods and
models of rural developiment.
Emncin Rund li fhs
The lack of adequate infrastuc  is a key constaint impeding the development of
rurl areas. To stimulate the development of rura areas, which was largely ignored for
yeas, the Govenment has decided to allocate through RDF resources equivalent to at least
$250 million for these pwposes.
The RDF will be an additional source of funding for rural infas . It will
contribute in the form of gants to the financing of projects submitt.d by the soa
committ  and local govemments to complement direct beeficary and gmina financing.
It will guarantee the necessary continuity of a rurl infatucture pogam and promote a
more cost effctive tecical and financial approach based on local initiative and
Durng the fist three years, priority has been given to water supply, sewe     and
telephonea. It is assumed that the equialent of US$200 milon will be invesed in water
supply (apprx. 40 percent), in seweage (ar. 35 pernt), and in tc nio
(appro 25 percent).
The equivalent of at least US$50 million will be allocated for other tpes of
expie conistent with RDF's objece.
The impact of the RDF on rurl develpment will be twofold: first, the nral wok
will create new jobs; and secondly, rural infast     will allow the deveopment of small
and micr-enterprises as weal as facilitae the development of productivity in agrcutu.
Prmmdgf New Rumal DevdM AZwhes
The Government has also decided that the RDF will assist gmbws to wok out
progams of rual deveopment adapted to the emerging marikt economy. The new approach
needs to be tested and adjusted to various regional conditions. The Govemment bas therefe



-67 -                                  AN=  2
Page 13 of 15
chosen to inidw eight pilot programs as pat of the MSAP which would be designed as to
be repicable on a regional scale.
In each of the slected areas, the program will comprise:
(a)  assta   to the ginas in studying the deveaopment potental and constraints
at local level, formulating and implementig a local development action plan
and land use plan, including an infrastu e progm; identifying
organization and tWaining needs as well as financial gaps at the gnina's level;
canrying on ex-post evaluation studies and impact studies; and
(b)  establishmt of a system for the promotion of local micro-enterprises with the
partcipation of the existing professional gnizaons, training and advisory
services and financial institutions.
Prehmniay work is aeady underway in one gmina. The medium term rural
development objective of the Government is to develop after three years a coordinated rural
delaopment policy in aU rural communes, drawing on the exence of the regional pilot
programs, dedgning and implementing it with the active collaboration of the Rual
Develome  team of the RDF and the local authorities and rural o ions.
V. Reform of the Aculhl Re           Extend Educadon Stem
The Government is committed to restut    and codinate the agcultural
infonmadt   system, which indudes agricultual education, research and extnsion. The
objectve of this reform is to remove inefficiencies and duplications and to make the system
more effiet and responsive to the needs of agriclture sector and the market economy.
A number of reforms and acdons have already taken place. These include the
establishment of thee inter-agency workdng groups representing agricu    education,
reseach and exension. Each of these working groups prepared a rport on the restuctuing
of one of the components of the sstem, on agricultural education, on resach and on
extension. Some of the recommendations included in the report on education have already
been implemented.
An autonomous Committee for Scientific Research (KBN)-including
agritu-has been established, but the Ministry of Agdulture and Food Economy is
not as yet fully rprented.  Agcictural research instiuts bave been pnrotized for
financial alloctions by the Committee with little input from the ministry of Agncultu  and
Food Economy. The Miistry has, therefore, agreed with KBN to establish an inter-agency
Agr 1ic       Subcommittee within KBN  to evaluate research proposals and make
recommendations on agricultur research priorties, funding and other issues.



- 68 -                                 ANEXI2
Page 14 of 15
The Ministry is in the pocess of establishing a Ministeri Council for Agricultural
Research and Development to evaluate and determine reseach priorities, financial and
manageial isu  related to agriculural institutes.
The agricultal eoxension service has been decenlized; excess staff laid off;
farmers committees are now responsible for work progams of extension directors; the
sevce bas been delinked from the ODR production farms; and an autonomous fmding
procedure for the sevi  has bee established through the budget.
A high level inter-agency coordinating committee is being established, under the
chairmanship of a Vice-Mister for Agriculture, to prepare the final report incorporating fte
findings of the three working groups. This comminttee is curently revwing the three
working groups reports in order to consolhdate their recommendations into one document and
an action plan for the genaion and transfer of agricultual information and technology.
The Government is committed to prepare such an action plan in order to develop a
well coordinated and focused agricultal informadon system incorporating education,
research and exnion, all worling to agreed policies and stategies. Implementation of this
program will require substantial techncal assisance and investments. The Government will
prepare investment proposals based on tke Action Plan for submission to the interational
donor community.
VL    lue PpbLc Ivestent ft=M for Agfi
The Government has begun revisng the legal famework covering the financing of
land maagement, integrated regional planning, eectification and water supply systems and
tephone network, in order to adapt them to the requirements of the market economy and
private farming. As a result of the work already done, it is clear that far-reaching changes
in priorities, insdtitonal arrangements and criteria and mechanisms of financing will be
needed. Sound economic criteria for planning and evaluation of investment projec  also
need to be adopted to ensure the efficiency of public expenditures.
The Ministry will continue to work on these matters, takdng full account of the
conclusions of Public Investment Review for Agriculture carried out joindy by the World
Bank and the Ministies of Finance and Agriculture and Food Economy.
While central investment planning has been phased out, it has not as yet been
replad by an institutional capability for preparing investment strategies, setting priorities
for public investments to complement private sector economic actvity and identifying,
preparing and evaluating public investments. A related problem is the budgeting process
which is not integrated sufficiently with private investment activity, and investments by local
governments, which carry out substantial volumes of investment in the sector.



-69 -                                    ANNEX2
Page 1S of 1S
The Government is committed to develop in the medium term adequate budgeting
procedures and an institutional capability for public investments. As a first step, new criteria
will be developed for the budget, economic, financial and institutional criteria for screening
public investment prqects in the agricultural sector.
VEI.   Reoro     of the Mi    of Arlculre and Food Economy
KMiait Restructudng
As part of its medium term progam for the agricultural sector, the Govemment is
committed to underta  a comprehensive review of the strucure, functions and staffing of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy and to implement a reorganization of the
Mnistry in the shrtest possible time.
Workc on this matter has already sarted. A special workdng group is preparing the
detil of the new           onal structure of the Ministry, in cooperation with a
governmental group worldng an reforming the overall State administration.
Moreover, MAFE are receiving asistance from USDA to strengthen agricultural
policy analysis, market analysis and information and management skills for science and
Coordination of the ASAL Progam
In order to ensure adequate coordination between Government agencies for the
iplementation of the Medium Term Sector Adjustment Program, the Govemment will set
up an Innistial Coordinating Committee chaired by the Minister of Agriculure and
composed of repesentatives of the a trations concerned, such as the Ministry of
Finance, the Minisbtry of Privanzatio, the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers,
the Mistry of Foreign Economic Relations, the Anti-Monopoly Office and the Agency for
Agriultural Markets. This Committee will be resoible for the overall implementation and
coordination of the Program. The committee's work will be assisted by a new Technical Unit
associated with the Department of Foreign Economic Cooperation of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food Economy Moreover, the Ministry of Agnculture and Food Economy
will be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the performance of the Program, seeldng
inputs from the plat ing Uwits of participating agencies.
Yours sincerely,                   -
Minister of  riculture    Food Economy                   inister of in



POLAND - AGRICULTURE SECrOR ADJUS1NEf LOAN
MEDIM TEM S9CrUR ADJUSrMI1N PROGRAM
L AGRIC TURAL MICE, SUNIY AND TRADE POEC  FRAMEWORK
ACTIK TO IEMNTRED
ACTU:NS                 ,_umI..
I8SUIJS         OBIUCUU               ALR Y TAKUN              TO NE TANK  PRItOR T               TA W R TO                ACT nS
PEDUIARY 2, I                   UtARY 23, 19
1.f
--   ---
Bomds ht abe ativh of  la ea ARR jamu  by      Ad        semow of _saIe b ,                       bud
tbe Agdstabml Maskag        e epadamet ian wai 19 a      Z" and eoat i r
Agency (All) .oaatdbta.        of dhe Council of    d td st  d
PIIY*MSgIOURUIUIUaUI o    IMniacs (lune 991) n dwAs  by ARR ud                by AR Cn* )
A~hig         used   mope of ecdvks of ARx
tD oete pd   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Adad  an peaicto of                        Guaatts   b    g 19921w
P mmht CofOaft in                 at-                             -    by ARR ma
Wddprad               se ad    con                 med ha 
de7   u p _             of o dsr boh stdoefod         19      u q   oe ta 
_naves and _teva  a       o    aVot e te  o   i
ARR. In die ca of afo         e      d ha 0
resem his woulbe subjo         _                l
-   conMgutonbm               Fbnane (")
sRe confotay of ARE aesM      Aai* to be
Aolso, of                  sadsa    wun to _t S of fist    CoAdtiued
d1 IURopestuoupihepe  yearprogamof - o L f      }       of
stor ibin Am yogaus           aB Afi  Wcti; ofiespg tblo             p
pr soctor.
Adopton a Plr  toir nwap  a
stREopesalloni      e '-tb        ersmo
() To be tae  prlr to Seond Waftntde                                                                                                           I.
(P) Tn be taken pies    brto Sewed 1daacbe Ideate



AGRctLTuiRAL PRICz, SUBSIDY AND TRADE POUCY ItAMEWORK (Coued)
I                                          ACTIONS TO Bg MON11OJZD
ACTImONS                                                                     MEKIM TERM
ssUes     I       OAJCTLRDY TAnK                                    TO BETAKEN JIWI O          TOU TABE EN   1IR TO           ACTONS
FEBRUARYZ2, On             FEBRUARY_2_ __I_
2. 7h&gf        ElO     h      ati ofd   A.bodon of aU hmt                                       IM &-pv fo AlRt aS
AC ~ ~ k fmof b-apoie              (OxePt_mpov                                             odirbmriod    not to ;ow
~~~~udepd mth EconBomi   sickd imeastes on r           )awl                            fiw  1br agwun  a
andd -  1 _  -P op               subsbl  duion ill                                      substnt  s
P~~~~~~~~~g  an agu w,xhn%d 
awo al(le            amMookor ac Mosltorei                                        Co_gs montoring of
e   agncaa ,kst           acBoxe to 1orep
expoit r at  of   to the   I*uuhstudy in order to   Br     m consistecy of import
Euepa Comm_ty)                          to haUnoniC    tis beiwec raw matna
unmtedaprosd              and dpia       dp ,tf
_ d e d p~~~~~cosine withf
agtIdhalpmdecto
imuptmeartation of
-no p
on the bah  of study
_                                      9~~~I



POLAND - AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSEfT LOAN
NDIUM TIRM SECTOR ADJUIMENT PROGRAM
IL PRIVATIZATION AND l                cRutNG OF TME AGRICULTURAL MAREEBING AND PROCESSDNG SECTOR
ACTIO.M    TO BE                     .                       .TOWZD
ISSUES                 CT1V1                       TAXER                 TO BE Th4 13O0 TO             TOIl TAUIMO 1RT0                   ACIONS
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ________ ________  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   JK RUARY ! 28.   Fm    WR ART !28   199      __  _  _  __   _  _
IWJ04           Phatit   LAW. Anti-     atm, P          dw, o l     ae                y       ead -       P        it
mg             arbSintmahes               gmoopolaw and ot  h ke                     pd   othethree sobseherAdo                       P       of
h_                              -"_by                          _z_ed                             n                         d_sgIlaton pase b
Parliap ent (1990)            _ "                                    (on
NWd Pood                                       .e_O                                                    Ddelop a y for masr1d        pros au aad
P_aeakit                                   Creaion of Ministy of                                                and pol     k        Es Sr  denefd
PEvatidcn and Andi-         Flash beak-up of the 18        ownetubiplapev   and          unsold unite
Monopoly O_ic               largest PZZ aan                          tot
hakia dmqyA kwTunils to beew
doouuae  of Goveramet       il at las five of the 13 regional   Ad&4ioa of th   year Action
a Xd by Parliamt            offioes of the Mry of the      Pgams for privainta and
1991 ad May 1992)    Pvatiao                        rau             of sta ow  d
entqleiatfesto 
auldary Intite by                                     subetr Inchlding thec ereab s
Syo                                                        subsectdr
Proess of brk-p of PZZ
(casligtog)
aenterprIse i  ItI byAnti
Monopoly Ofice
223_ sttwned maketing
andfo d       4 .cesn
- - -
1990 ad 1991
1" R
Law on ta-rvatlzation
sumitd to Pariamnti
June  1g99                  ___ _ _.___ _ __ __                                          ___ _..             . __ __   ._
Aompanying         Inxtrduce acompanying        e     sta Commisi          Launc rated Technal            P reaompaayg                 Prepae acoospan
mauwes             measre of agrult  nd   on th  rnfrm a    of the    Asitnoe Progrm                      aesum fo etah subaeor           nsu  or each
induil y  to faciitae    Enviromaet for A        ecubn                                 rlat  1D:                    subsector read to
the _rest g procwa.        reated in Januay 1991                                      (a) rade and prke poL7       pubbl ivesbnt
and    r  a ru c                                                                       (b) antitrust subsedwl         p= UIlctiI
nab. in                                                                                     In" .  o             I,O
competktion on inpu and                                                               fc(e)=rserc %and taiin
(I) Toi be take priw to Bound Pree dat,
(   To be takpri  to Seod T eBe 3de,.



PRIVATIATION AND                         OG THE AGRCULTURAL MARKaTIG AND PRCESIG SWCOR (contiUed
ACTRWATACONSY TO .                          . .,N_TOREI
ISS1S                 OBJ0CTIVU                     TAKIN                 TOIB TAN ROR JOTOBB TAMWI PRIOlR AO :IoS
ACTIOS .RA                 .~                      _         -,-, MJARUARY2t  1 ,       MEIRSMA M",,
Legs Pvark          A4ust existngb_Iln for   Coemaul Code and ota4    Launc muted TecwAa                   Adonb           Om
(a)  nlracts; (b) broker wAn    amt sAd bill exis but amin   AsmiftanmPrograms        bssobagoudtdiS                Of lagasl  aon 
_onudaskm wagmt (c)         need of overhaul                                          and present a  legIslatIon to  cowamerc of atdculba
_ d.cta and Cd)    Emeqend e of prn                                                        as
siiadduloap                            M&etaqg
Bakwomnd stuy on lega
_ _mwort filszed_
Bavhummeatl    _        d_umwe omafy sak         Sties caniod out by        LAunch read Tecicl             Adt lit of bhardoe  bvel     Deveop Jastiic
Standards           inpt UNei age.dusuy           initry of Agdwukr avA    Asisace Prarms                  iapaciy to enfoce
Minty of aom                                              cr      r compli  wit        complinc
durags 19861990                                              n              d a
'*It ama31)n2SI to
backgound study                                           Parlime oftwa
I  _ _   _ __ _             ._ _    _   _   _   ,_      _   _   _   _   _ ._        _   _   _ _   _   _      mp  me t to   e u a c s_         _   _   _   _   _
Stin                                             lnsutaidm  ex_st but Wteir  LAunch whted Techobal do                    ud
iof oh                activitic  am un_oo-dimm4   Asitnc Pograms
quland                f,   i       adp           oft  rednud dntva, and adt
cou     protectin   e catn In the food           sdq!i tomart e conomy Idpatotaof e                                           xupmono in
_ nduy .a _ttd y   fiuid.
Wholesal and        Delop mktin                  Pnvate food retil sector   Lach  eed  Tecba               Reew proposad acin
Rdl Maring          i           sd  go           devlopig at aedated        Assistance Pogrms              program by Polish profenal
famworkr  esh               P                                                         o      pS sai pron
and Ivestwho                                                                               cig .   o           of
market                          1       _krud tde on                                   the netwr of points of
le     a i                                                 cne h tree mbses
iafmtuetread                                              ncding grain lIvestock and
______   __________~~~~~I                                                                                            andiaInfnaie  _ _ _ _ _    rs  rdc 
I   .  ,  .  ,  . . , fiahcc, , , . , ,,, S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



POLAND - AGRICULTORE SECTOR ADJUSI2iT LOAN
MIi)IUM TERm SECTOR ADJUSTM15 PROGRAM
mL LAND POIUCY AND DEVELOMENT OF THE PRIVATE FARMAND MART
ACTIONS TO BE MONIORltD                                               .
ISIJES               ODJECTIVS          U      ACTIONS AAUDY                                              -i  .umeRm
TAKEN            I   TO BE TAKEN MIOR TO                    TO BE TAKEN PROR TO
WIUARY 28, IO"                     JWBRUAET 2B, 1__
1. z1             Iv      ho  rat of prvat     New legislation being          cabe to be idenifid too f
farAd t r _anmactI.          prdpard to foit  Icpio*ed    faciate p                     ch                        d 4lan0 0tn0 s aOnOb
currently atan estimated     p      fkrml    tr4nsactIoS   an the intodti  of mt  intoducto of    of pivat famlnd
pg            200,000 ha anualy                                          mortgage satae                      modem morgae i_amnW                 bansaon
Slt                       ~     ~ ~~~~~~Ltanc on size of
priv.te fann  and odher               s on arland   sing to
eeass                        bupdtd
Develop a fnwot for                                      eMhodolog to be applied at locl oadof this me                      gy              api
land cpability aesm nt                                    and rgiona lves agroed              in five vov                         of land capali
for fisa and aviomnl                                                                                                                      t
PacIliae farmer eary         Legilatio ioduced which  FRmd to be estabshed to faiuat          SuiAal proges in hnp         _        celeae  te
retrement and other sco-    pemuta early  tamnt           restruc   g of aShrnnw  and nm    fam  etucsgnma offan
ecomnIie mcasues to                                             _                                dnaI            n                kaingB fe
farm viabil proa so asto
socil  acetable
_                              _                                                                                 ___                                     om
bupee uad expand easg   Current ltan        soudaton      Agreemen to be reachd on a          Areest  fa      t year prgm  of   Reach a Yar  levd
lad oonsodainm progm         prom co                      tony yea progra  of ln                   d    ad cod ondtin on a        of kw consoldatio.
approximatel 50,000 ha       consolidatn of a minim   of two    suioru of 65,000 ha                  on A nunirua of
_______   -nn-alby                                            milon ha                                                                100000 ha
Bstab&h a modem cad e    Now law passed to mprovo         A unified matl and urba land        Imlement    fr year of tlds         Contu
progrsa                       re&" gltry       eradare hnprvment m                     gy    pro          o nd and baldi of
Areed                                drmodrnza  ionnclg a              this     term
bmpoe lad r_giahition        PrX= of ptivatizatioa of                                            mostgar    tr                    Prom
qstm                         peo    and notary   vices   Statowed noWy oEewa to be
as underway                  prvatzd                             S _ta,owd  geodesc survc  fimn
to bep.v_i.
t r
a5
II



LAND POLICY AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRIVATE FARMAND MARREWT (contiue)
ACTIONS TO JU MONITOBEID
ACTIONS AIDY              M.     ,                                                                    TiS M
IssuES              OItCTIVE                       TAS                    TO 91 TAKEN PlOR 0TO            TO B  TAKJU  PROR TO              ACIO
_IWRUARY 2,193 IMRUARY 2 tg94
2. Sa            Smtate  rm  Plvaizion and   Direct subsidis to _tae      Cre e Sate A gdaand uplanat an                                  Complion of
Rstructuring                fam elminat  in 1990        Property Agecy to  true                 Pgr  to stute,.  pdivti
ad p        state wed              mrnsf, puvatire or  s       d_u of st rhm
Act on Mng_ent of Stateo            (*)                      down apuprucssg
oo October 17. 1991        Set up a miinmm of 12 regional
offiesl of the Sabt Ag b:ukul    A minium  of 100 sa  frm      P      at  af all stale
Ppoe   Ageny. provide rsucs  wi be puvatie                     frms
for hi  SiA operai  a lunh
techia l  ncepogam for           All ate fr  wil be
hnr          of ies              ld   by December3l
1993
Prepar critera for use of soaw
amland  asi   or salt to priate
& affimegato and lad
conservtIon);such creak to be
cosibtt wcbihty                                                                             -
aasessmoatdeaced in paPO S of                                                               0%
intite te prWatiom of at ka
two sae fbms in at le" 3r
Sepan  of Soil Asst                                     Pre  and dopt prm to                                           Trasfror sl soca
from Stat Parm Productve                                s    th prducti"e sses of                                      as.  (osi, cl ns
Aets                                                    AgleMw fiona  mthir Noc  asew                                  wads, scol) to beal
8and sevcsgiast  osn
coopenaiv. orto td
_              _     _    _    _                                        ______Sec~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mtor
Cladficaton of Lea ssues                                Pepaation of Govennt             SubmisD   of a aw to
s_rroundIngpivatira                                     proposd legistio to clad           pm     t with p
claias                                                 claim by forme land owor          undr whidi the r_pivai.t
claims lled by former owners
of natoaIed farmld woul
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~b   ese ded    _ _    _   _ _    _
() To be tae  prbr to DoPd P_sadh
IIe



POLAND - AGRICULTUE SECTOR ADJUSTNENT LAN
MEDIUM TERM SECTOR ADJUSMErT PROGRAM
IV. INSITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR THE DEVELOPMNT OF THE RURAL bARKET ECONOMY
I            ~~~ACTION  TO BR MO)NITOREDI
issm        B       OBJECTIV        B       ACTON ALREADY
TAKIEN                TO BE TAKEN PRIOR 70            T1 BE TAKEN PRIOR tO              ACTNS
FEBRUARY 28,1993               FEBRUARY 2, 1994
1. PIanniuan4            imrPovid iqoved support  Laws on decetraation      r         b       the          P        fhd am fil    Buildn a   et
ffoCenttal Goenmet to  loa fianc have av                    oo and te Ba  am             crn of   s    of             sp of   f ruda
Rwal   1  govmuned d       becs pusscd                 the                     anedin, orgoDdnd  Rutl De vulo Deent p
Strengtening tbe role of   Rwd Deopment Tem in   Fun
local governm_t h nutal    the Minsty of Agdrulu
devc_opment                hus been cratd
lmprove fundi  mechAnism    Woik on designing
for nual    _              amwganen. ls raRuml
duting Irans     period    D     ad Pmd Wna
Coordinate mrdl            Gras  Floct  progas
devlopment wit loa         of privatzatoad
privatization p am          resucin ofeo
baveboena d 
2. RiwbMmu        Dcvcbp a more cost          Various pams exist          Adopting of guidelins to define  Stan impl_mntation of ntal    Rvise egionl
of Rual        effective apprach for tie   such as Watcr     n            oal prioriis for  ral         insuctu  ptogm                   m         po
fn-fig~-       development of basi         and EC financed pams,    if                                                                and in     t dec
infirstuctr (waftr,        National Fund fAr                                            Crea a database on rral       process on the bai of
seweage, telepbone) with   Envirml Protetion                                            infiastucu                    pot  gmms and other
the patcpati   of stat,    and Water omy, eto.                                                                        exper_ms
S-vi and local nhabbbiat,
entarpise  foundations and
banks
3.                Promote a new approach to    Laor Offices and Labor    Seaecion of the eight pibt gminas    Filie and a  to    c    e staE ish and extend xnw
Naw Loeal    local development and and    funds opeating             ad oepartion of the tentive      gmina delopment a  land       mweos  and models of
'  usc panini con t with                               lacd dsvdopm program for onc   wse pans in the eght plot       nual developmt
Aun9h to    the needs of a ma&ket          Dffee  institutions of loa   &mina                           aas                          dawing lsson from
.31n y &Alc testing it In  devlopmat exist                                                                            piot aea  rien
Credit pobes by banks
Promote self-eaployment    and founda       exis
Pro w          Nrd emto Of mdro
enteies in rnal aresu       ODR, ZDZ, FISE and oth
institutions ha"e started
oraiin  rining and4
business advire fur mie   ' 
(' To be tknprbor to Board l!_sntais



POLAND - AGRICULTURE SECTORLO AN
NmEUM TERM SECTOR AJEM2TIGA
V. REFORM OF AEDUCAXION, RRSARCR AND ZT1NSION
I                                                             ACTIOSIS TACTMOKISARRD            
issUE                  OwuEciUM                       TAK13                TOM MRTU       ROR TO    TO USTAKEN 11005;                     ACO
-_______I_______   _________ :RiSF11 1  B -                                              UJARY 2g13.15       lJURUAW  W319   ~________
1:                         Restmuct _ ro  -         Dreft Restructuring Pro7ama                                                           D.whpinutof_swa_r
is usubd          eusaisa to m     3oo h   submeiWd to Minsty.                                                                  geared)V  modm agaiofluim
me_ihiofmsi of    h        ndPoo r  needs of uflag                                                         ahcA                       dne,
ot_,      ad uti        coodk         and4 ha_    _       _ooavb                      a
WAUVdwolopmaot   ih a ahko COnOMY                  -    -               An       indbandosg                                            i    i       u
CWVU at uN tf  8brc
N=wsbar afE ue O                                                                  6a_mbto d
set gered to mming                               llm _ PoD                         Oel Bdwto bill Ibr
on th aed                               NPVM Rvr ,                         "Da_*n
of a tubd coosad secondauy schol ha bon    ec                                                 bo prrd
ostablshd. A nam        for
apck ani eduati  has bome
~ en
_Zbt cber o
trnig  A Ganem Educon
OMR has bone adoptad by
padiabeti
2.                                                  An auonous Cehob  fo                ---e-ca       Af       Tesot aof           in    T     boke  t  e nuD0er1of
Is fragmated aM               ath  te ad         Scuetific Resch (KBN) hs    onhs KIN, wihl                h       u        sgmidl    e                  d
many research Institutes   levL                  bneablished but MAPS is    votin           .                                ns.                       la
of      ,      Ag.       n       l               not Silly reprsmod. Reaih                                  KBN wth S       of        ratioa  s       mI
unIversi   ad te  rsearch              istits  ebn pbinued              bmissI  of researh       rsea          d by         based on age"oogs
Insit of the             etdf. br fiai U                           bye  p ,                         by   MAS an the Dan ('1  .me. Estblh  uo
Academy of Somnac                an effecdv      Conutte. MAPS  sthe                                         _inu lifges bowon rsarc
Reseach i ad hoo asd               be       g     sabshed a  inst                w        gwp, to KXN                          of eafgind                 p
there as no CoMMA and e*Agulual oD tbo _oidng
mehand so                                   Rewsearc d          --  -                                  otra6Urin _pb
agreed national                  Sd  to"h  d o                        --o.Io                                                                             
agricultural research   these pnicodurcs to      Draf1 phans beseasructau_ng thboresearch instimts in be firm
p~~~~io^.                                                          to'  ofav b
nitadeqty                                        bng cakee
resoabedoo tbo he Dn_
Stat Committeen for
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    I 
suismiSio Researchc
wisk finac  an
,oenmt reea.       ,__         _    _      _        _    _    __  ._                _    _     _     __       _    _     _         _ __.__            _.
lb he hahan pinw to Secod TmaeheRgese
t % % X d T h _                                                                                                                  X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



-79-AN
_____                  ~~~~~~~~~~~Page 9 of 10
i|~ f U ! 1    1.14I
KI I1' flu" jI   jf   i
g:!~~ a$X             J
E "dU     I



POLAND - AGRICULTURE SEC=OR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
MEDRUM TERM SECTOR ADJUSTNMEN PROGRAM
VI. PUBIC IN4WSMENT PROGRAM IVOR AGRICULTURE
r                                ~~~~~~~~ACTONS TO 110 MONITORED
ISSUE                                        ACONS ALM                  1lOBEI TAM4 MORt TO        r TO UB TAME  MROR TO              MEDIUM TR
oBj1TEL,vs                    TAILEN                  FEDARUMY2.1                    FEBRUARYV2. 1994               ACTONS
IpoePublic Inveatmeat    strategic Imnvsmen Review    Adoptis of a Imetable for    set up monitoring and
~i~J~~il     fficiencyin Agrickur       of Public Sector Inveshnent   Impunaag agede*osnlc    evauaion uni for Agriculture
in AMCbOin Agriculure carried out                                         an  iacia  ritera an"           Publi Inivestment Progrm
.joLy&-' by Govemnmen and  lshtoa  udio  o  h
Bank Pri                                  Ina a Progam  a In Adapton of the Borrower's
Agrkcultr (0)                  Bugtfor 1994 which shal
rFctm aprpit conmmit
nsinonlguIdelne for
VEI. REORGANIMATION OF THlE MiNISTRY                                                                          n
ACTION  TO BE MONITREDI
ISSUES  J     ~ORJKCTFF         ~     ACTIONS ARDY               ~       UR   319                    ERAY~                       M.EWIM TERM
TAM            ~~~TO BE TAKLEN MROR TO         TO BE TAKEN MROR TrO              ACTIONS
Adant         f         A  Tcm  rSalinfeetoy hnaplmelan                                                          complete impcleentation,
Miityof Agricuutor and    of Public Ad*aO                                          of the  gaalol
miiglhnggI  inte agecie to needs of   (Coumnc of Minsters) ba                                     etutuIgpora   b  h
makteoomy, incluin:   begun woak.MnsryoAgiuuean
a) Inmwroed Covenmen       MAPS has bee ow ntda                                         gece 
*aabilhy in agrioubura    t. firs pilt Ministry for
Mu~~u      p*,an~~~ and             rcltuotafimg.
b) Agricalrura prilm ad    MAPS hasceae an
maktinfomatidon      bondas tem to imptcmas
services; and           the restzUetin proposal.
o) Cspability to handl mmrl
C' To he SUlma pfri to Dowd Praesftiat
()To be taes priw to Semi Trnch elas



- 81-                                 ANN..4
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
AGRIcuLTURE SEcToR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SUPPLEMTARY LOAN DATA SHEET
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a) Time Taken to Prepare.                         15 months
Ministry of Agriculture and
(b) Prepared by ...... ..... Food Economy with Bank Assistance
(c)FirstBankMission ..................... October1990
(d)Appraisal Mission Depar    ................. June1991
(e)Negodations ......................              May1992
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: .............. February 1993
(g)ListofRelevantPCRsandPPARS .                        None



- 83 -                                                  AN=  5
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSrMENT LOAN
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS A
(As of December 31, 1992)
msA Million
Loan    Fiscal                                                                        (Less Cancellatios)
lo.      year           Borrower                       Pro.1ect                    Loan        UnditbUsed
One Loan (SAL) Fully Disbursed:
3247      1091      Repubic of Polaud          Structural Adjustment Loan             a
Total Fully Disbursed SAL, SECAL and Progran Loans                   300.0
La=| gder Disbursement:
8166      1990       National Bank of Poland  Induatry Export Devt..                 260 .0       220.17
3167      1900       National Bank of Poland  Agroindustry Export Devt.              100.0          43.63
3190      19S0      Republic of Poland         Envircoant Management                  18.0          10.55
3193      1890      Republic of Poland         Transport                               4.8           3.19
3194      1090       Polish State Railways    Transport                              145.0         110. 5
3215      1990       Polish Oil and Gas Co.  Energy Resources Devt.                  250.0         171.19
3310      1991       PolUsh Post, Telephone
and Telegraph           Telecomunications                     120 0         96.48
3338      19S1       Republic of Poland        Employment Promotion Services         100.0         94.67
3341      1991 k/   Republic of Poland         Financial Institutions Devt.          200.0        124.86
3342      1991 k/   Republic of Poland         Privatization and Restruct.           280.0        229.94
3343      1991      Republic of Poland         Agricultural Devt.                    100.0         99.00
3377      1991 I/   Republic of Poland         Heat Supply Restructuring              75.0          55.45
3378      1981 q/   DRE-Gdansk                 Beat Supply Restructuring              40.0         38.52
3379      1981 q/   DoE-Gdynia                 Beat Supply Restructuring              25.0         21.02
3360      1991 S/ 4/Voivodship DME             Heat Supply Restructuring              55.0          55.00
3381      1091 a/   Municipal HE-Krokow        Heat Supply Restructuring              25.0         22.26
3382      1991 MS   Capital Region HE          Beat Supply Restructuring             100.0         95.45
3383      1991 Sf   Vielkopolaki Bank
Kredytowy               Heat Supply Restructuring              20.0         20.00
3466      1992 4    Republ-'c of Poland        Health                                130.0        130.00
3467      1992 L/   Polish Development Bank  Private Enterprise Dovt.                 60.0         60.00
3499      1992 4/  Republic of Poland          sousing                             ..200.0        200.p0
Total                                         2,607.8
Of whibch: Repaid
Total now held by the Bank                    2.607.8
Total Amount Sold                                 0.0
Of which Repaid:                                  0.0
Total undisbursed                                           1.902.8Z
A/   The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed projects In execution, which
Is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
k/   Hybrid loan.
g/  DMM - District Heating Enterprise.  Seven loans made for one project.  Loan documents for six of the loans hve
been signed and are effective.
4V   Not yet effective.



- 84 -                                                    ANNB S
Page 2 of 2
REPUBUC OF POLAND
AGRICtLTURE SECrOR AUSTMENT LOAN
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1992)
Gross Caw_itenta
Fiscal                                  Type of                            -------U8S Ki on -------
Year           Oblior                _ osinoes                      ,     o an    Efuitv    Tota.
19S9      Hortex                Agriculture & Livestock                17.47       -        17.47
1990      EDB-Al aV             Sales & Export Finance Leasing         29.82       -        29.82
1990      EDB-Decmet            Sales & Export Finance Leasing          0.12       -         0.12
1990      EDB-Eurocamion        Sales & Export Finance Leasin8          0.06       -         0.06
19SO      3DB-Grai             Sales & Export Finance Leasing          0.10       -         0.10
1990      BDB-ItaL-Pol          Sales & Export Finance Leasing          0.30       -         0.30
1990      EDB-Machelewski       Sales & Export Finance Leasing          0.38       -         0.38
1990      EDB-Malkievicz        Sales & Export Finance Leasing          0.06       -         0.06
1990      EDE-Manosak           Sales & Export Finance Leasing          0.14       -         0.14
1990      EDB-MJA               Sales & Export Finance Leasing          0.48       -         0.48
1990      EDB-Piotr Ostrow    Sales & Export Finance Leasing            0.19       -         0.19
1990      EDB-Rotter            Sales & Export Finance Leasing          0.09       -         0.09
1990      EDB-Rybka Iron Work Sales & Export Finance Leasing            0.39       -         0.39
1990      EDB-Saar Papier       Sales & Export Finance Leasing          0.21       -         0.21
1990      EDB-Sawena            Sales & Export Finance Leasing          0.82       -         0.82
1990      EDB-Tworozoac         Sales & Export Finance Leasing          0.61       -         0.61
1991      Bristol gotel         Eotel Developuent                      11.64       -        11.64
1991      International Bank
Of Poland          Commercial Banks                         -        3.20       3.20
1992      Chemaaev              Real Estate & Business Service         10.58      1.06      11.64
1992      Philips Poland        Electrical Apparatus                   LS OO    _ -        15.00
Total Gross Comantmentt                          68.8       4.26      92.73
Less: Cencellationsc  Terminationa,
Exchange Adjustaents, Repayments.
Write-offs and Sales                       6  01     P OO       6 0
Total Commitments Held by IFC                      ,46      4 26      86 7a
Total Undisbursead                                ELU       I6        fl 5
TotaL Outetanstng                                32.48      2.66      35.14
f EDB - Export Development Bank.



Page I of 3
REPUBIC OF POLAND
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENr LOAN
LIST OF DOCUCMt IN PROJECT FILE '
Tmli                                        AUTHOR(s)
VOLUtME L ACPRICE AND TRADE POUCY AND TIE AGRICULTURAL BUDGEr
No.l Apiturl Prie and Trade Polirn Poland..d.     Ronald Andeon Stefdn Tan6oneanm
No. 2    em Budge for the Agickural Sctor .                    Andrew Bird
No.3  Curnt and FutueTrade Prot pts wih the EC        .        Jum  Rowihdi
No.4  Polands. Agricultural and Food Economy and its Trade Rebtion
with theK BCGuenter Schme!
No.5    lW de h eo w ut EbEC   ....... ...... ........... ............................  Guetesr Sama
No. 5 Trade Prospect with East European countre and USSR.....Trees Szafam
No.6  Trade Prosps for Major Polsh Agriul  Commodities .....JYan Bur .akiw, GJeon Dybowi,ki Micha
sisel Botena Nosek4, Zygmnunt Smolefd
No.7 Export Promotion for Agri sltura lom.odides  .............. d5styna Penl*ek
VOLUME IL THE AGRICULTURAL MARKEEDNG AND PROCESSING SECTOR
No.1  Privatization and Restauting of the Agriul    Marketing and
Procsdng Sector .................................. Mich  Debatss, leanJacques Detbr,
Richard Heoy
No.2 Legl Fnaework of the Agiuturda  Poducts Trade .......... Jan RKMI   Krytof Maued
No.3  Wholesde Markets for Livetoc and Mea  ......   ........... Bogdan Nodzak Rymard Woftas, Roman
Urban
No.4  Wholese Markes for Fruits and Vegetables ................ Kazimia  Kubiak, Zofia Mirkowa Rysmrd
MarYnwk
No. S Main Dmy, Storing and Echane Pons for Cereal Oilseeds
and Aial Feed ............      ...................... Bogdan Judzinski
No.6 Transport Costs for Major Agrutunl Commodities in Poland .. . Aldon Zalewad
No.7 Market Infomation Sys   .      ............................ Roan Urban, Jan Makowsld
No.8  EvIronmental Proctdn in the Food roessing Indusby ...... .   Jagstp.rochowdra, T. Grochowski
No. 9 Food Standazatin and Quality Corwol in Poland .....L......     W. ObedsMski iT. Obdb
No. 10 Education and Research and Development In the Food Industry .. Kazimlderz Jarosz
VOLUME IL RURAL DEVELOIWNT
No.1 Dwcuopmaw   of the Rural Mat Econoy .....      ........... Maria Nowak
No.2  Regonal Planning ...................................  Andrej Stasak
No.3  Loca Audhores ..........       .......................... Bohdan idlowiecki
No.4  ifstructure . ....................................... Proeso  Zawadki
No. S Cditiom  or lDEcomic Devopme  in Rugal Atra in Poland . Jenry WMkn
No. 6 Ptoposed Orgniaton for a Polsh Rural Development Fund .... Mwria Nowak
I Technicl Papes incluted in the Supporting Volumes.



- 86 -                                             E
Page 2 of 3
TllLE                                         AUTHOR(s)
VOLUME IV. LAND POUCY MNI)D STATE FARM
No.1  Proposals for Changes in Agraran and Stductural Land Poi ...  Domi.i  dquedo Comuler, Pilichowki
Sroczyk Suchta, Ir6bek
No.2  Managemntm of Agficotulrland In Poland ................ Kuzimlerz Strodcz^      ltha Tojlkwki
No.3  Logg! Reguatons Concerning other dn State-Owned Agriclituva
Property in Poland ...........                            Wkold Jurcedwia
No. 4 Anticipated Changes in the Area Structure of Private Farms .....    a Szemberg
No. S Basic Aims and Operation Trends for Territoral StrucNre
Rationalization of Agriculture and for the Creation of a Land
btarket .............................. AnFdre Kood&j
No. 6  Mlangement of the Sta  Land Fund ...................... Franiek Pt)w, Imena Urbaika
No. 7  Recommendation for an Improved Land Coonsolidation Program.. Andmr Hopfor, Stanilaw Surowiec, Andzej
Nowak, Jenry Jaworaki
No. 8 Administering the Land and the Agraian Stmrcur of Small
Farmees Agriculture ......................... .... Andrzej Pilichowskd
No. I Education and Training of Staff in the field of Cadastal Surveys,
Integration of Land Property and Land Transformations in
Agricture .........          .................... Andrzo Hopfer, Andrze Nowak
No. 10 Sociological Problems Concerning Changes in Land Structue .... Wadaw Piotowki
No. 11 Mang  Changes in Poland's Agrarian Structure ...... ...... Jacques Gastaldi
No.12 Real Esate Policy ..............................           Jacques Gastddi
No. 13 Land Policy and State Farm Restructng .........R......... Rwd Rowadoi
No. 14 Current Status of State Farms.ManrcCromula, Tomasz KoFndnuk J6zof
Pries, Richard Rozwadowski
No. 15 State Farm Ownership Transformation - POR Union Proposal of
State Land Agency .............       .............. Rihard Rozwadowd
No. 16 Changes in Strucure, Organizaton and Ownrhip and
Restructuring Options for State Farms ..................... Andrzej Kdodzito
No.17 Labor Iues on State Fams ............................   odzimiez Dzun, Elbieta Phorowaka
No. 18 Housing in State Farms ...........................        Ebleta Piotrowka
No. 19 Proposal for Modernization of the Land Cadatres
Sysen in Poland ........................... R.trbek
No. 20 Summary Proposal for Improving the Pivate Farmland Ma*ket in
Poland..ac. G.............................. J Gsta



- 87 -                                            ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
TIThE                                          AUTHOR(W)
VOLWME V. TME AGRIUCULTURL EwUCA1ON, RESEARCH AMD RIMNSION SWflM
No.1  Ters of Rmenme for Cordinadon Commitee & Conmosion of
Working Groups
No.2  Mme Ste of Agricultural Education and the Direcon of its
Trnformation.... A. Hopfr et aL
No.3 Agdculual Educaton    .               .T. Iisk et at
No.4  Orgnatioa Systm of the Agriculturd  Research In Poland ....   I.Kmidi et al.
No.5  AgrIcutura Research ...................                    P. Omn
No. 6  Outline of a Model of Agricultural Extension .............. T. Nietuphki
No. 7  Orgnizaon of th Extensdon System in hie
Intemediate Perlod ..............  T. NictupJd
No. 8 An Analysis of the Agricultui Eitension System in Poland ..... J.uk et al.
No. 9  Proposa for a Data Base System for Small-scale Agrialture ..... 1 Zuk and I Wojdd&i
No.10 A Regonal Model of EitensionSve .           .............E. Sobczak
No. 11 Conlusions and Recommendatons



12RD   22595R
14*  U..               is.                ~~~~         ~     ~~        ~~~~~~20    2?  24-
u (. t i, +   t- ( s.;                        RUSSIAN      *      LITH U A N IA
FEDERATION   I'POLAND
PSK                                                       F. K-                  (                     '  >  '>z1 _POLSKA
-  M-~ Rood,
re   t   /UN    /   (       BUG           >z)             - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SLlWAtKI -                              s;{sneD;,
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~-Rdod
ECIN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
GIdoo Pony
Naoo-r Cop.rol
;0 S\ - T -;  _SaoK \   BELARUS                                      Sk,o Po o Mo 
> kJ X*EUt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OFOSTRtK                              to                        '?  P  ,o'  j  o'   e C,e opkwns
i~ ~ ~ Gk6                                                     ECA 'fi  -dt^t/           T/-,e
52osio I miasetftA.
z
t    e    <    g    .    dU  ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t~~~~~-: .t_^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~; , Gooe asMw
[WAR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOWY~z
cke~~~~~~~~~' K                                                                                         2'                      Gmi W  R o i -M i. . T
LI         ZL                                                                  s                                                                   t iY.d(r-............n1X>>-v0 
LE IN                                                                                                       G m K L n , i f   o .     >,h -Ez   
BUN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                              RSSIAN
JiUiNIA                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEDERATION
HOWA ~~~~~~~~MA:UKRAINE    A*
T.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sa~                                                         UTHUANtABAUS -*
0 L  A.                 . . .A ._A_
0~~                                 ~                                              - ASRI
KILOMMRS  s~ ~~~~~A                                                                                                    RMAI
0~                                              IF. I
S..l. 1,2.                                         1      A  r 60hoodoA
K                                              ffA2?Y   i--,
1#-       ir                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2?                              2



