Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25048
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-33920; IDA-33921; IDA-33922; IDA-33923)
ON
IDA CREDIT 3392-ZA
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 135.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR
FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY
December 28, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Zambian Kwacha (K)
= US$ I = 2654 Kwacha (Average exchange rate
FISCAL YEAR
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATAF               Automatic Tariff Adjustment Formula
BoZ                Bank of Zambia
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CDE                Committee on Development Effectiveness
CMU                Committee Monitoring Unit
ERB                Energy Regulation Board
ERIPTA             Economic Recovery and Investment Promotion Technical Assistance
Credit
FSC                Fiscal Sustainability Credit
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GRZ                Government of the Republic of Zambia
HIPC               Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IDA                International Development Association
1MF                International Monetary Fund
LASF               Local Authorities Superannuating Fund
LDP                Letter of Development Policy
MCT                Ministry of Communications and Transport
MoFNP              Ministry of Finance and National Planning (previously MOFED)
MoEWD              Ministry of Energy and Water Development
MTEF               Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NAPSA              National Pension Scheme Authority
NPS                National Pension Scheme
NSSN               National Social Safety Net
OMCs               Oil Marketing Companies
PCF                Pneumoconiosis Compensation Fund
PEMFAR             Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
PER                Public Expenditure Review
PRGF               Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
PSCAP              Public Sector Capacity Building Project
PSREP              Public Sector Reform and Export Promotion
PSPF               Public Sector Pension Fund
QAG                Quality Assurance Group
RDCs               Recurrent Departmental Charges



SoEs                State-owned Enterprises
UNCTAD              United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
WCF                 Workers Compensation Fund
ZCCM                Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
ZESCO               Zambia Electricity Supply Co.
ZNOC                Zambia National Oil Company
ZNPF                Zambia National Provident Fund
ZPA                 Zambia Privatization Agency
ZR                  Zambia Railways
ZSIC                Zambia State Insurance Corp
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager/Director:  Philippe Le Houerou
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Hinh Dinh






ZAMBIA
FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY CREDIT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Prncipal Performance Ratings
3 Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents






Project ID: P039016                                      Project Name: FISC SUST.CR. I
Teanm Leader Hinh T. Dinh                                TL Unit: AFTPI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 28, 2002
1. Project Data
Name. FISC SUST.CR. I                               L/C/TFNumber: IDA-33920;
IDA-33921;
IDA-33922;
IDA-33923
Country/Department: ZAMBIA                                              Region: Afnca Regional Office
Sector/subsector: Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance
(28%); Banking (19%); Central government
administration (19%); Oil & gas (19%); Mining and
other extractive (15%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revzsed/Actual
PCD:   12/13/1999                             Effective: 08/04/2000
Appraisal:  05/03/2000                               MTR: 10/12/2001           11/26/2001
Approval:  06/27/2000                             Closing: 12/31/2001          06/27/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  GOVT OF ZAMBIA/Ministry of Fmance and National Planning
Other Partners
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President-      Callisto E. Madavo                       Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager:     Yaw Ansu                                 Michael N. Sarris
Sector Manager:      Philippe H. Le Houerou                    Philippe H. Le Houerou
Team Leader at ICR:  Hinh T. Dinh                             Hinh T. Dinh
ICR Primary Author   Clarence F. Ellis; with
contribution from Leonid
Koryukin and Dotilda Sidibe
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN--Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective
At the time the FSC was appraised in 2000, Zambia was facing serious problems in public
finances. First, while the central government budget deficit had declined markedly during the
1990s, the overall fiscal position of the public sector did not improve over this period as the
Govermment was not able to control the non-central government components of the public sector.
Of these components, the most important deficits were those of state-owned enterprises, the Bank
of Zambia, pension funds, and local governments. It is estimated that the overall public sector
deficit (quasi-fiscal deficit) -- which includes the central government deficit plus the deficits of
local governments, extrabudgetary accounts, state-owned enterprises, and the Central Bank --
amounted to about 13.6 percent of GDP in 1997 and there were indications that this deficit had
widened between 1997 and 2000. Second, this slow progress on the fiscal front has been due in
part to the lack of sufficient funds and delays in the privatization of the mines and in part to
inefficiencies in the budget management process, including arbitrary cuts, ad hoc decision -making
in response to cash shortfalls, and above all, a cash rationing system that creates distortions at the
micro levels.
In this context, the Fiscal Sustainability Credit aimed to help Zambia sustain recent fiscal
progress by: (i) extending fiscal adjustment beyond the central government to other public sector
entities (state-owned enterprises, pension funds, and the Bank of Zambia); and (ii) strengthening
fiscal discipline through improvement in the predictability, accountability, and transparency of
public spending. In line with the poverty reduction strategy articulated in the last Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), the Credit addressed poverty reduction objectives in two important
ways. First, at the general level, it directly contributed to the maintenance of a stable
macroeconomic framework conducive to economic growth by ensuring the sustainability of the
fiscal progress achieved in the preceding few years. Second, the proposed reforms in budget
management helped to ensure that public expenditures, especially social expenditures, reach the
poor in the most effective way.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives have undergone no significant changes.
3.3 Original Components:
A. REDUCING THE QUASI-FISCAL DEFICIT (FLOATING TRANCHE); SDR
37,700,000.00;
B. FISCAL MANAGEMENT; SDR 33,900,000.00;
C. PENSION REFORMS; SDR 33,900,000.00;
3.4 Revised Components:
Component; Cost; Rating
A. REDUCING THE QUASI-FISCAL DEFICIT (FLOATING TRANCHE); SDR
37,700,000.00;
B. FISCAL MANAGEMENT; SDR 33,900,000.00;
C. PENSION REFORMS; SDR 57,400,000.00 (supplemental credit of SDR23,500,000);
-2 -



3.5 Quality at Entrv.
On May 2, 2000, the ROC authorized the team to appraise and negotiate the FSC,
assuring satisfactory preparation of the Credit. The meeting asked the task team to strengthen the
links of the proposed Operation with the HIPC initiative,with the PRSP framework, with HIV/
AIDS, and with enhanced savings mobilization consequent upon the implementation of the
proposed pension scheme. The possibility of developing a program for similar operations in the
future was mentioned.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/ach/evement of objective:
Despite difficulties that still remain in rationalizing the oil sector and the problems that still
exist with predictability and accountability in Government spending, the FSC managed to achieve
the majority of its objectives. As an adjustment credit, the FSC was targeted at specific entities
but the operations were either quantitatively significant or structurally important to have a more
general impact on the economy. Implementation of the FSC helped Zambia stay on course with
the reform program and reach the decision point for the enhanced HIPC Initiative, which allows
Zambia to receive debt relief of over several hundred million dollars a year. In accordance with
the CAS, the FSC advanced the process of privatization of state-owned enterprises and addressed
pension reforms including administrative reforms and its consequent retrenchments. The FSC has
established the importance of regulatory arrangements to protect consumers in the petroleum
sector while protecting the competitive environment. In regard to management of the budget and
of the macro-economy, the FSC has made some improvement in predictability and transparency of
public spending by ensuring that the 80% rule (according to which line ministries were guaranteed
80% of the budget allocation as shown in the voted Budget) was implemented and by its
provision of macroeconomic indicators. Finally, in the financial sector, the FSC helped the
Government of the Republic Zambia (GRZ) to increase efficiency through improving cash
management and debt management.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Reduction of the Deficits of the State-owned Enterprises
In the areas of electricity and railways, the FSC supported other Bank projects such as the
Power Rehabilitation project and the Railways Restructuring project. In the oil sector, the FSC
resumed the policy dialogue which was discontinued after the Petroleum Rehabilitation project
was canceled (1999). While, due to data paucity, an estimate of the deficit of all state-owned
enterprises (SOEs) in Zambia is not available at this time, this ICR provides the fiscal impact of
the FSC measures for the power, oil, and railways sectors.
(i) ZESCO: resolving and implementing a plan to settle the debt and cross debt of
ZCCM
Agreement on the amount of debt and cross-debt associated with ZCCM and on a plan to
settle the associated arrears was arrived at expeditiously. A cash settlement of US$15 million to
ZESCO was completed by May 2001 and final agreement on the amount of debts owed to
ZESCO by the public sector was reached in October 2002.
- 3 -



(ii) Unbundling and privatizing ZESCO
The Bank made, prior to the provision of the FSC, a Power Rehabilitation Project credit
(PRPC) in the amount of US$75 million to the GRZ for upgrading the installations at ZESCO.
The FSC provided the opportunity to improve further the financial position of the entity. Thus, in
April 2000, before IDA Board of Directors' discussions of the FSC, ZESCO increased its tariffs
by 25%. An increase of 16% followed in February 2001 as the Automatic Tariff Adjustment
Formula (ATAF), which was designed in the PRPC and supported by the FSC, was applied.
These measures were followed by efforts to reduce costs, particularly as appeals were made by
the public to avoid further tariff increases because of their impact on the cost of living and on the
cost of business operations. In addition, the Energy Regulation Board (ERB) intervened, pointing
out that there were, in the law, approaches for determining rate increases. If these approaches
were not pursued, ZESCO could be exposed to legal action by the consumers and to the
likelihood of a worsened financial position. The ERB would be required to base its decisions on
costs of production which, it is generally agreed, could be substantially reduced.
A revitalized management at ZESCO is making arrangements to sell electricity wholesale
to the City Councils which will be responsible for full payments of the quantities that they receive.
In addition, the use of pre-paid meters will reduce considerably the loss of electricity, estimated at
between 20% to 40% of transmission, to consumers who use electricity illegally. As agreed in the
context of the PRPC and supported by the FSC, ZESCO has contained its staff to a level of about
3800, has converted its short-term debt into longer term loans and has reduced its ownership of
residencies. Table 1 below shows the achievement in reducing operating losses at ZESCO. Lags
in billing have been reduced but there are limitations to further improved efficiency, given the
capability of a system designed for billing 100,000 consumers but that now bills 270,000. Illness
and death have taken a tragic toll on work plans, thereby making it difficult at times to raise
productivity.
Arrangements for the privatization of ZESCO are proceeding in the context of the plans to
develop the vast potential for power generation in Zambia and in the Southem Africa Region.
While an original decision was taken to unbundle and privatize ZESCO, it was decided later by
the GRZ with the support of the World Bank, to privatize ZESCO by concessioning without
unbundling in the first instance. The privatization arrangements envisage regulatory oversight by
the ERB. The World Bank assisted with the finance of consultants by providing resources from a
supplementary Credit (ERIPTA), to pursue studies of the envisaged privatization. Progress has
been made and the GRZ has requested the additional assistance of a Transactions Adviser, on a
no objection basis, to assist with the preparation of bidding documents.
However, at the time of this ICR preparation, the Zambia public is raising many doubts
and questions regarding whether the country should continue with the privatization program. A
number of NGOs and civil societies have openly opposed the privatization of ZESCO and other
state-owed enterprises. As discussed below in Section 5.2, this view was formulated in the
absence of any public education program on privatization, and was largely influenced by the press
which was not provided with adequate and timely information.
-4 -



Table 1: Reduction in Operating Losses of ZESCO
in Kwacha billion
2000/1               2001/2              2002 (April-August)
Fuel for vehicle     5.0                 8.9                  4.5
Repair&maintenance of 5.8                7.4                  1.4
vehicle
Human Resources and 14                    14                  7
Administration (staff
reduced from 4337 in
1998 to 3807 in 2002)
Total (in Kwacha     24.8                30.3                 12.9
billion)             8.0                 8.4                  3.3
in million US
dollars
Source ZESCO MD letter dated Sep 18, 2002 and IFS, October 2002.
(iii) Liberalizing the petroleum sector in an orderly fashion
To improve efficiency of the petroleum sector, the FSC aimed to liberalize the retail
domestic prices of petroleum products. In this regard, the FSC has achieved its objective. All oil
marketing companies (OMCs) are now free to import petroleum products directly. OMCs are
free to set pump prices without applying to the regulatory agency Economic Regulatory Board
(ERB). The ERB amended the licenses issued to the OMCs by removing the requirement to
apply for price adjustments. The ERB now monitors prices on an ex-post rather than on an
ex-ante basis. The oil marketing companies openly compete with each other and this has led to
lower prices to consumers. For the first time in many decades, gas stations display retail prices so
that consumers can choose the cheapest places to buy petroleum products.
Another major objective of the FSC in the oil sector is streamlining the operations of the
oil parastatal, Zambia National Oil Company (ZNOC), which has been responsible for huge losses
and inefficiencies in the system. This objective was met with delays. ZNOC finally was put under
a liquidation plan when its losses caused the largest commercial (and state-owned) bank Zambia
National Commercial Bank (ZNCB) to become insolvent. Other objectives include the offer for
sale of a majority controlling interest in the refinery, pipeline and terninal, to a strategic partner or
group of partners. These objectives were also achieved after some delays. The concessioning of
the TAZAMA pipeline (which partially belongs to Tanzania) is proceeding after agreement with
the Tanzanian Government has been reached. The Cabinet approved the sale of government
shares in the INDENI refinery in order to reduce its equity from 50 to 45 percent. These shares
are now in the Zambian Privatization Trust Fund in preparation for public offer to Zambians. The
Ndola terminal, which belongs to ZNOC, is being put on sale by the ZNOC liquidator.
- 5 -



The liquidation of ZNOC alone could save the Government millions of dollars per annum.
Despite its monopolistic position in the oil sector, ZNOC incurred losses to the tune of $50
million which it had to borrow from ZNCB in 1999. In 2002, ZNCB experienced financial
difficulties because of those losses and the Government had to assume these liabilities by issuing
bonds in April 2002.
Recently, and after the last tranche of the FSC had been disbursed, the Government
became involved in a dispute with the equity partner of the refinery, Total Elf Aquitaine (TFE)
and has asked TFE to reduce its share in the refinery to reduce its monopoly power, since TFE
also competes in the retail market with the other OMC's which obtain their products from TFE.
At the time of this ICR, negotiations are being conducted between the Govermment and TFE on
the latter's holding of INDENI shares.
(iv) Privatization of Zambia Railways (ZR) and the institution of an autonomous
regulatory framework for railways.
The FSC aimed to support the Railways Restructuring Project (RRP) approved in FY00
to create conditions for involvement of the private sector in the operation and management of key
railway functions as well as open up the railway infrastructure to more competition and to reduce
Government's financial support to the railway sector.
The Government has decided to increase private sector participation through private
concessioning of the infrastructure and selling or leasing of locomotives and rolling stock. The
process of concessioning Zambia Railways (ZR) is underway with ZPA being in charge of the
operation. A request for expressions of interest appeared in the UN Development Business in
July 2001. No less important were the considerations given to staff rationalization. ZR which had
a staff of 9000 in the early 1980s was able to reduce its staff to less than 1600 by November 2002.
The concessionaire was expected to decide on further staff reductions after performing its due
diligence checks. In the context of the RRP, the Bank has agreed to fund the retrenchment
benefits of the staff. It is expected that ZR will operate with a small staff to oversee the
rehabilitation of the assets and the environmental mitigation works, including the removal of
contaminated soil and its replacement with good soil. The GRZ has appointed an Inspector of
Railways and the Ministry of Communications and Transport (MCT) is establishing a
comprehensive regulatory framework. ZR will, in all probability, be wound up when the existing
rehabilitation works are completed.
As a result of the above measures implemented in the context of the RRP, ZR no longer
incurs any operating losses and instead has made a significant profit in the first three quarters of
2002. Total profit for 2002 is estimated at about $2.3 million, compared to a loss of $3.5 million
two years ago (Table 2 below). There is no doubt that ZR is in a better financial position than a
few years ago and the quasi-fiscal deficit was reduced.
- 6-



Table 2: Reduction in Operating Losses of Zambia Railways
2000                2001               2002
Operating Surplus   -11,007            -5,339              10,500
(-deficit)
in Kwacha million
In million US dollars  -3.5            -1.48               2.3
Source: Zambia Railways Limited, Statement by the Managing Director on December 18, 2002.
(v) Reduction of the Risk of Contingent Liabilities of the Bank of Zambia (BOZ)
This component of the project was executed expeditiously. The formulation of the change
in the law to enhance the powers of BOZ to act promptly and effectively to sanction, take control
of and de-licence banks was a condition for Board presentation of the FSC. The plan of action
for improvement of cash management practices was also a condition for Board presentation.
Both proposals were put into effect as conditions for release of the second tranche. In addition,
GOZ was to improve the database on domestic and external debt at the MoFNP.
The FSC achieved its objective in this regard. The Amendment to the Banking and
Financial Services Act 1994 took effect on September 1st, 2000. The Bank of Zambia has not
been called on to provide any guarantees in the last two years. The GRZ and the BOZ have
adopted UNCTAD'S DMFAS computer based data system for recording both the domestic and
the external debt.
Throughout 2000, ministry accounts were consolidated and processes streamlined to
reduce the ability of commercial banks to make money on ministerial accounts. The Government
conducted an audit of government accounts held by Lusaka based ministries in commercial banks
and reduced the number of accounts from over 1100 at end 1999 to less than 600 by end 2000.
By end 2000, the bank accounts (excluding the donor controlled accounts) operated by each
controlling officer were merged into no more than one account in each commercial bank.
(vi) Pension Reform is arguably the most ambitious of the FSC undertakings to reduce the
quasi-fiscal deficit. The newly formed National Pension Scheme (NPS) which is administered by
the National Pension Scheme Authority (NAPSA), made outstanding progress during the
implementation of the FSC. The contribution of the NPS was an operating surplus of K78 billion
in 2001. The accumulated assets in the NPS amount to K108.9 billion at the end of 2001. This is
in marked contrast to 2000, when the operating surplus and assets were each K3 1.0 billion.
NAPSA has honored the collective bargaining agreement negotiated by ZNPF in 1998,
retained the mission of national comprehensiveness but tailored its contributions to actuarially
determined pension benefits that take the form of a future stream of payments instead of lump
- 7 -



sum benefits.
The NAPSA improvements are instructive for several reasons. First, productivity
increased dramatically. Resource mobilization jumped from K4 billion per month to K7 billion per
month with about a half of the staff. This was the direct result of greater efficiency in work
arrangements. The new scheme covers the same private sector work force as the old provident
fund, with some minor exceptions. Copper workers are exempted from the new scheme and
newly hired government workers are to be enrolled, although nearly none have been to date.
However, the new scheme has registered more covered workers and, more importantly, collected
a greater percent of contributions from their employers. In addition, administrative expenses have
been held in check. In 2000, administrative expenses absorbed over 50% of income. In 2001,
expenses were 32% of income and falling. Second, there was a very thorough restructuring of the
staff. Of a total staff of about 1050, around 800 were retrenched. This permitted the redesign of
job positions and a rigorous test of the suitability of the 300 new staff and the 250 old staff for the
re-designed job positions. Adequate finance for the retrenchment arrangements was also
provided. After careful consideration, the Bank agreed to the funding of retrenchment to be
on-lent to NAPSA by the Ministry of Finance. Third, the restructuring of NAPSA was supervised
by a management team that was highly qualified. It helped also that the team enjoyed excellent
working relations with the World Bank team who assisted in the design of the retrenchment and
the rehiring operations. Fourth, NAPSA's managers and staff, previously wedded to manual
methods, have switched to computer operations, negating the assumption that workers in Zambia
exhibit indifference in the work place. When worker indifference is in evidence, it is often a
reflection of the inadequacy of management. NAPSA now covers 23 stations country wide which
are interlinked by efficient telephone communications. The World Bank has upgraded NAPSA's
computing capacity including the design of software adjustments. This intemalizes the capability
to maintain and improve the operations without external assistance.
It should be noted that the FSC did not intend to follow up on the placement of
retrenchees in alternative occupations or in starting businesses. The difficulty is similar to that
experienced by ZR: the adjustment process is not sufficiently robust to generate employment and
small business investment opportunities.
NAPSA has deepened reforms to achieve national comprehensiveness and to provide
portability of pension benefits across employment opportunities, thereby contributing to greater
flexibility in the labour markets. The portfolio of the National Pension Scheme is at present
invested under transparent and open guidelines that permit investments in selected overseas
assets.
The FSC had proposed altemative pillars to provide greater diversity in pension saving
options. But debate during the implementation of the FSC concluded that pillar diversification
should await furither actuarial examination and a consolidation of the relatively new NPS. A
priority higher than multi-pillar arrangements is the extension of pension reforms to the largely
unfunded liabilities of the Public Service Pension Fund (PSPF), the non-compliant Local
Authorities Superannuation Fund (LASF), the negative returns on the assets of the Workers
Compensation Fund (WCF), etc. Together those schemes include another 200,000 workers
whose pension anrangements are either not covered at all or are inefficiently provided for.
- 8-



GRZ is in arrears to the PSPF to the extent of K 254 billion. The already accrued benefits
will remain unpayable with the clearing of the arrears unless a change can be made to the
Constitution to adjust the benefits of the members of the PSPF. In about 15 years, benefits to be
paid to the group who are now between the ages of 38 to 42 are estimated to amount to at least
US$225 million and possibly to as much as US$ 450 million. There is need for both policy and
administrative reform to minimize the cost of these demands. A strategic plan is necessary for the
period up to 2050 to provide the context for the policy reform.
The FSC recognized the serious problems of PSPF but argued that the only viable way to
reform PSPF is through amendments to the pension provisions in the Constitution so that benefits
of workers who joined the Government before 1996 can be reduced. These amendmends would
require a two-thirds majority vote in Parliament as well as approval in a popular referendum.
Given the constitutional hurdle, the FSC proposed to phase down the PSPF over the long-term,
while consolidating and improving NPS to make it fair and cost-effective and to allow portability
(i.e. compatibility) with the private sector. The new national pension scheme then houses the new
civil servants joining the labor force.
The effect of the reform of pension schemes needs to be seen in the context of the wider
problem of termination benefits that represents a overhang from the more state controlled
economy. Termination benefits on retrenchment and on retirement are factors that contribute
further to the inflexibility of labour markets. This contributes to the high cost of privatization.
The need to make provision for retrenchment benefits reduces the capacity to pay higher wages
and to secure greater productivity even under efficient management. This indicates that there is a
structural problem of low wages that business enterprises cannot easily overcome. The
consequence is that the commitment of Zambian enterprises to the Zambian economy is often
weak.
C. Improving the effectiveness of public spending
The FSC only partially achieved the objectives set out in this area. Fiscal
Management was a difficult component of the project because it was, and is, systems wide and,
within the time frame of an adjustment credit, tries to reverse a behavioral pattem that has existed
for decades. The Letter of Development Policy recognized the difficulties and committed the
reforms to spending rules that aimed to achieve greater predictability, accountability and
transparency in Central Govemment spending.
Greater predictability in effect protects the share of expenditure allocated to line
Ministries in the budget by requiring the MoFNP to allocate to these Ministries at least 80% of
what they are entitled to receive from the voted budget. The FSC also continued the tradition of
previous adjustment credits to protect social spending through requiring that the share of
discretionary expenditure (defined as domestic expenditure net of debt service payment) allocated
to social sectors be kept at least to 36%.
The 80% rule was used to allocate public spending between the 4th quarter of 2000 and
-9-



December 2001. As a result, erratic monthly fluctuations in cash releases were smoothed-out
and reduced. Cash releases were more clearly targeted to socially and economically relevant
ministries. However, since January 2002, a new budget system consolidated domestic and
foreign resources (i.e., the cash budget and the debt service budget). Prior to January 2002,
domestic spending was based entirely on domestic revenue, hence domestic spending was stable
as fluctuations in foreign aid were limited to the foreign budget from which debt service payments
were adjusted accordingly. With foreign and domestic budget consolidation, shortfalls in foreign
aid directly affected domestic spending, making the 80% difficult to keep.
Concerning the 36% share condition, the recent PER found that in an environment of
resource constraint, protecting the social sectors means that there was little left for infrastructure
and therefore there was an adverse impact on economic growth which in tum could lead to
reduced social spending. Another difficulty arose from the definition of what expenditures were
indeed discretionary. Some officials now believe that only the Recurrent Departmental Changes
(RDCs) were indeed discretionary. Wages and salaries, in that view, are not truly discretionary. If
this approach is taken to its logical conclusion, very little expenditure would be left for allocation
to social and/or economic sector spending.
During the supervision mission carried out by the Bank in June 2001, the intended ratios
were found not being observed. Corrective measures were suggested and implemented. As a
result, the year end totals restored the required shares of total spending. This demonstrated that
resource flows continued to exhibit considerable variability and can be assumed to have led to
considerable inefficiency. The performance has not improved with respect to social sector
spending in the first six months of 2002.
The shift to greater predictability in the implementation of the budget was intended to be a
preliminary step towards the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) on which the Bank
and the MoFNP have been working.
The accountability commitment in the LDP related primarily to strengthening control
over commitments of line Ministries to suppliers when no resources have been approved for such
spending. This is, in some ways, a consequence of the unpredictability of cash flow and it is
consistent to expect that improvement in predictability would reduce commitments for which
there is no approval.
To improve accountability, a number of important measures were announced to all
controlling officers in MOFED Circular dated 28th June 2000. They called for, among others,
that (i) monthly cash releases to line ministries will be made dependent on their submission of
accurate, comprehensive and timely commitment reports. (ii) over-comrmitted ministries will see
their cash releases cut, (iii) disciplinary measures will be taken against offending controlling
officers, and (iv) competent accounting staff will be posted in all line ministries. Furthermore,
MOFED prepared and disseminated quarterly reports on over-commitments, cash outlays, and
payment arrears.
With the exception of disciplinary measures in (iii) above, the above measures were
- 10 -



implemented at the time the FSC was in effect. But subsequently, after the FSC was closed, they
have not been continued. The Commitment Monitoring Unit which was envisaged in the LDP has
essentially been disbanded and the function transferred to the Accountant General's office. The
World Bank mission at the time of the mid-term mission expressed considerable concerns on
efforts to strengthen accountability and requested quarterly reports on outstanding commitments
to be reported to the Bank.
The third commitment on fiscal management was that of transparency. The MoFNP
undertook to publish a quarterly report on Government expenditures in the monthly Macro
economic Indicators report, setting out the Budget totals of the various expenditure heads and the
quarterly releases with respect to the Budget totals. The Macro-economic Indicators have been
published regularly since 2000, providing a wide range of government financial statistics for
assessing performances in relation to the Budget and to the economy. Partial information on the
level and composition of external and domestic government debt has also been published in this
report. Finally, the 2001 budget shows a substantial increase (50%) in budget allocation for the
Office of the Auditor General, strengthening its ability to undertake timely audits of government
accounts.
While, in many ways, the transparency commitment was better met than that of
predictability and accountability, the original intention of building transparency into government
decision making in order to achieve better sectoral allocations of expenditure was not met. There
was no systematic use of the cash releases published in the Macro-economic Indicators by the line
ministries in order to claim a better share in spending from the MoFNP. In the end, therefore,
final decisions on cash releases continue to be made by the MoFNP, often under heavy political
pressures from other parts of the government. In part, this was caused by the lack of timely
information from the MoFNP to the line ministries as the latter complain they receive these
releases too late, long after the ad-hoc spending decisions have been made. In part, the line
ministries claim that while the Indicators do provide a significant amount of information on a wide
range of statistics related to the macro-economy, the data are too much and that there are not
enough analyses of the data. But more analyses of the statistics were not envisaged at the time of
the design of the FSC and will certainly follow the refreshing start that has been made.
There are many reasons why GRZ should monitor very closely the allocation of sectoral
spending. The first is that a start should be made with respect to the shift to the MTEF that the
MoFNP is at present planning with the World Bank. The MoFNP is also working with the Bank
on the Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review (PEMFAR) as well
as on the Public Service Capacity Building Project (PSCAP). The data requirements for the
predictability requirement represent a preparatory step in that direction. The second is that a start
should be made to provide some strategic direction for the economy and the MoFNP should
welcome the opportunity to view spending plans of the Ministries in the broader context of that
overall direction. The third reason is that the adjustment process is exceedingly fragile, as is
evident with the very high rates of interest, and the MoFNP is expected to review spending
expenditure priorities that can improve the adjustment performance.
4.3 Net Present Valte/Economic rate of rehtrn:
This Credit was an adjustment operation.



4.4 Financial rate of return.
This Credit was an adjustment operation.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Because this credit was an adjustment operation, the impact on institutional development
was minimal. The institutional development impact is rated as modest.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors ouitside the control of government or implenmenting agency:
In addition to copper price declines, a major factor affecting implementation and outcome
continues to be the weak export performance of the copper and the non-copper sectors. Zambia
is landlocked but has liberalized its markets. To the extent that Zambia's neighbors do not follow
similar policies and in fact even practiced export dumping (to take advantage of exchange rate
controls in the home market), the revival of investment and growth in Zambia via regional trade is
still facing difficulties. Joint ownership of the petroleum pipe line is an example of a factor that
was outside of the Government's control and that affected decision making adversely. While
collaboration with neighboring states has advantages, the sharing of decision making can reduce
the speed with which decisions are made. In some ways, the donor community has affected the
implementation of the reform program by delays in disbursing resource flows, which adversely
affected fiscal management.
Skilled manpower is not readily available and therefore affects the quality and speed of
implementation. This factor may be considered one that the Government can control except that
gestation periods of training programs can sometimes be long. In the areas of accountability,
predictability, and transparency, the limited capacity of key Government officials were taxed to
the limit by the relatively complicated set of rules set out as conditions in the FSC.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There are three factors that are subject to government control and that seriously affected
project implementation. First, the lack of consensus and/or of full commitment to reform
objectives that conflict with prevailing norms and expectations often resulted in delays in taking
key policy decisions. This is the case for the oil sector conditions. Second, there was no serious
government effort to present the reform case to the public in order to gather support for difficult
policy actions to be taken, particularly those related to privatization. In an environment where the
press does not have the right and/or timely information, this leads to many misconceptions from
the public. The public outcry of ZESCO privatization at the time of this ICR is a case in point.
Third, Zambia's history of economic development since Independence has been more dominated
by a state-controlled, dirigiste approach than by free market one. The task of building market
insitutions in this environment necessarily takes a long time. Yet, both the government and the
development partners have consistently under-estimated the time required to achieve reform
objectives. In the case of the FSC, the objective of achieving fiscal accountability, predictability
and transparency in public spending would require a series of credits, beginning with the FSC, for
necessary changes to take hold.
The lack of consensus and/or sustained commitment to reforms in the oil sector resulted in
-12-



a six month delay in closing the FSC. The MoFNP was fully on board and was the driving force
for reforms in this sector. Yet the Ministry of Energy and Water Development (MoEWD) was
the executing ministry and was not fully convinced of the case for reform. Very few measures
were taken until the arrival of a capable and effective Permanent Secretary. After the FSC was
closed, that PS was moved to a different post, and implementation difficulties began to emerge
almost immediately (Section 4.2). By contrast, when commitment exists, and where management
is qualified and confident, commitment compensates considerably for deficiencies in some skill
areas. For example, in the National Pension Scheme Authority (NAPSA), productivity rose
because management is both efficient and committed.
Over and above the commitment problem, the absence of public campaigns to explain to
the public why certain actions, for example, the concessioning of ZESCO and of Tazama pipeline,
were needed hampered government progress as the public was often misinformed about
government actions. In addition, there was a serious lack of data and information about
government actions taken, particularly in the area of privatization. The fact that state owned
enterprises do not produce quarterly financial statements contributes considerably to their weak
performances which are not subject to critical priodical assessments.
With regard to the third factor, a serious constraint to private sector development in
Zambia is, increasingly, the entrepreneurship, managerial abilities and skills of the Zambian
people. When a country has for decades pursued a state-owned and state-directed economy, the
habits of thought are not automatically entrepreneurial. The mere dismantling of the state
apparatus is necessary but not sufficient. The hard task of building institutions to promote,
support, and regulate a private sector economy is still ahead. Fortunately, many of the FSC
measures were supported by a parallel operation aimed to build capacity in the public sector. The
Public Service Capacity Building Project (PSCAP) has been designed to strengthen the ability of
civil servants to perform the wide range of tasks, including those supported by the FSC. Thus,
PSCAP provides technical assistance and equipment for the government to implement a Medium
Term Expenditure Framework, which would help improve predictability and accountability in
public spending in the longer run.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There are two issues with the MoFNP as the major executing agency for the FSC. First,
the MoFNP should undertake for itself the task of developing a mission. MoFNP is an apex
institution of Ministries that are connected to one another in the pursuit of the development of
Zambia. The fact that decentralization will be pursued does not mean that coordination will be
abandoned. But coordination should be informed by an overall goal, a country goal. Ideally this
goal should result from the views of the Government as well as from the Opposition and from the
NGO community. It is within that overall context that the MoFNP will find it useful to have
macro economic indicators for its own guidance as well as for its fellow Ministries. Second, the
MoFNP should not embark on any reform program which involves one or more of the line
ministries without making sure these line ministries understand the required policy actions and are
fully on board.
The other agencies in the public sector in general suffered from insufficient data for
- 13 -



assessing their performances. Corporation leaders should be supplied with monthly statements of
financial performances. The ERB has the very difficult task of developing regulatory capabilities
for oil prices and electricity tariffs. This requires top-level analytical skills.
5 4 Costs andfinancing.
The Fiscal Sustainability Credit, in the amount of SDR105.5 million (USD140 million
equivalent) was approved on June 27, 2000 and made effective on August 8, 2002. Actual
disbursement amounted to SDR 135.9 million to support economic reform and adjustment
policies. The initial tranche of SDR33.9 million was released on August 14, 2000; the second
tranche of SDR33.9 million was released on September 27, 2001; and the floating tranche of
SDR37.7 million was disbursed on June 27, 2002. In addition, a supplementary credit of
SDR23.5 million in relation to oil shock was disbursed, together with two other Fifth Dirnension
credits totaling SDR6.91 million.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
From a macroeconomic perspective, the Credit came at the right time for Zamnbia and
allows the adjustment program to continue until today. This is because the Credit came at a
crucial time when Zambia was under the heavy pressures of extemal debt and copper price
declines. Six months after the first tranche was disbursed, Zambia was qualified for enhanced
HIPC decision point and has since then received substantial debt relief of over several hundred
million dollars a year. It is entirely possible that without the budget support provided by the
Credit, Zambia would have found itself difficult to stay the course. About two years afer the
Credit was approved, Zambia successfully completed a PRSP. The Credit, together with the
IMF's PRGF, provided financial support to Zambia during this critical phase, hence helped sustain
the reform process.
At the sector level, sustainability is a mixed picture. One of the difficult parts of this
project was the liberalization of the oil sector. The liberalization of prices, imports, and the
liquidation af ZNOC appear irreversible. The concessioning of Zambia Railways also appears
irreversible. However, it is not clear whether the ownership structure of the refinery INDENI will
be in favor of the private sector. It was also clear that in fiscal management, predictability in
government spending will be difficult to sustain given the resource constraints and the lack of
fiscal discipline. The design of the Credit did not foresee the combination of a decline in
govermment resources and the merging of the two budgets (domestic and foreign) in the face of
spending arising from political decisions. Merging facilitated prompt debt service payment, for
example, to the intemational community but introduced more uncertainty in the domestic budget.
As a result , the improvement in predictability of public spending did not last for long.
Further developments in fiscal management have been initiated and include the Medium
Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), the Public Expenditure Management and Financial
Accountability Review (PEMFAR) and the Public Service Capacity Building Project (PSCAP).
Even without these projects, the MoFNP has already embarked on small steps towards
predictability, accountability and transparency which will not be easily reversed unless there is
some total change in the system of govemment.
- 14 -



The significant progress in pension reforms at NAPSA is likely to be sustained. The
efficiency gains discussed earlier will increase more over time as administrative costs continue to
fall. Also, there should be some additional efficiency gains as NAPSA staff becomes more
experienced. The investment strategy and guidelines that FSC helped establish mean that there
are no more investments in non-productive real estate assets with zero or negative returns. In
addition, investment income now exceeds wage growth (the growth in program costs depends
only upon wage growth) by a large margin. Higher investment returns means a greater surplus in
2002 when the final numbers are in. This will help hold contribution rates at their current level,
especially since investment returns are greater than wage growth.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Zambia's development needs in the areas of pension reform and fiscal management will
require substantial amounts of assistance. The upcoming Poverty Reduction Support Credit will
assist with the implementation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy. An under-utilised dimension in
the Poverty Reduction Strategy is that relating to Facilitating Empowerment, that is, the
arrangements by which "state institutions are made more accountable and responsive to poor
people, strengthening the participation of poor people in political processes and local decision
making, and removing the social barriers that result from distinctions of gender, ethnicity, race,
religion, and social status." World Development Report, 2000 / 2001: Attacking Poverty
Participation by poor people in the design stage of PRSP forrmulation is more difficult than mere
consultation but more sustainable.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7 1 Lending:
The performance of the Bank was satisfactory. The Bank was willing to undertake the second
generation of adjustment reforms and embarked upon a hybrid operation combining specific
subsector reforms with economy- wide reforrns for more efficient public spending. The project
included macro-economic measures and sector/micro-economic improvements and included oil
sector reforms which the Bank had repeatedly tried to help support without any success over
almost a decade (1991-2000). The reliance on the Country Assistance Strategy brought
coherence to project design.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision was good. The thoroughness with which the tranche releases were
analysed for their consistency with project objectives was very commendable. The Country Office
took an active part in assisting with preparation and with blending its representative and
interlocutary roles to encourage modifications to project conditions when practical circumstances
warranted them. The mid-term missions to Zambia very thoroughly examined borrower
performance.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Based on 7.1. and 7.2., the overall rating is Satisfactory
-15 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
At the preparation stage, no principal difficulties or misunderstanding arose between the
Govermment and the Bank.
7.5 Government implementation perfornmance:
The implementation performance was mixed. There were seven components of the adjustment
operation. Two components, the oil sector operation and improved fiscal management presented
implementation difficulties. The former was due to a lack of concensus from all parties involved
and the latter due to insufficient donor funding. Performances in pension reform and in the
preparation of the railways for concessioning were satisfactorily pursued.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The operation pernitted interface with several agencies including the Ministry of FInance and
National Planning, the Ministry of Energy and Water Development, and NAPSA . The GRZ has
appointed an officer who has become the point of contact between the GRZ and the Bank. This
arrangement has facilitated implementation by the GRZ and the Bank. The presence of the
Country Office also helped significantly in the relation between GRZ and the Bank during
implementation.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is satisfactory. Although there was delays in
implementation of the oil sector conditions, in the end, the liquidation of ZNOC was a major
policy measure and one that will improve efficiency in that sector in the long run. The need for
continuing efforts in the areas of accountability, predictability, and transparency of public
spending should be stressed in subsequent operations.
8. Lessons Learned
(i) Development is a long and arduous process. There are special interests in the oil sector and
in budget management that make the desired changes difficult to implement. Changing the
structures and the mind sets takes time. The measures supported by the FSC are only a step
towards the final goal of fiscal sustainability and need to be reinforced by subsequent
operations. Future adjustment operations therefore should be designed explicitly as a series of
successive Credits, each focusing on a time tranche of the reform program, and each building
on progress achieved from the previous one.
(ii) Many of the FSC measures were supported by a parallel operation aimed to build capacity
in the public sector. The Public Service Capacity Building Project (PSCAP) has been
designed to strengthen the ability of civil servants to perform a wide range of tasks to improve
accountability and predictability in public spending. Future adjustment operations should
continue to be paired with the PSCAP program. One key aspect of capacity building should
be training in management. Competence in management has been an important lesson learned
from implementation of NAPSA reforms. Managerial ability is important especially for
MoFNP which is an apex institution that should begin to see the Civil Service as a system and
not as a set of disconnected parts.
- 16 -



(iii) The coordination role of MoFNP vis a vis the line ministries needs to be strengthened
considerably. MoFNP should help develop a vision for the country along the PRSP. A very
firm vision of a private sector driven economy is necessary to overcome the hesitation that
accompanies decisions to pursue privatization. Vision is also important in the poverty
reduction dimensioning in which "state institutions are made more accountable and responsive
to poor people, strengthening the participation of poor people in political processes and local
decision making" (WDR, 2001).
(iv) In order to make the reforms irreversible, particularly in the area of privatization, there is
a need to build coalitions across different segments of the society to support the required
changes. This would require efforts on the part of the Government to communicate with the
public, to collect, analyze and disseminate facts on privatization to dispel many of the
emotional charges that are made by the public against the structural reform programs. In
particular, there is a need to buid a database on SOEs in order to monitor and evaluate
progress in this important area. The Bank, too would need to reach beyond the Government
and the main stake holders to help present the case to the public.
(v) Equally important as building support from the public is building consensus in the Cabinet
on key decisions to be taken. As discussed earlier, the lack of agreement between MoFNP
and MoEWD was the cause for the delay in implementation of oil sector reforms. It is
essental that the line ministries be given time to study and agree to decisions which seem
obvious from the Ministry of Finance's standpoint.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
- 17 -






REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
Communicatoins should be addressed
To the Secretary to Treasury
Telephone 00 260-1-250544, 250945
250940, 250946, 254995, 252121
Telex, ZA 4221
Fax 00 260-1-253-494 - 250012, 250719, 251078
Telegrams: FINANCE RIGEGWAY
MINISTRY OF FINANCE & NATIONAL PLANNING
All cor,espondences, should be addressed to the Secretary to the Treasury,
P.O. BOX 50062
RIDGEWAY, 15101
CHEIMANGA ROAD
LUSAKA
MFAL/ 102/ 11 /240
December 13, 2002
Mr Yaw Ansu
Country Director for Zambia World Bank
181.8 H Street
WASHINGTON D C
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
ICR FOR FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY CREDIT
I refer to the draft ICR for the above project. The Government as you may be aware undertook bold
steps and actions within its limited means and against a less conducive environment especially in the
areas of budget reform and oil sector reform.
This notwithstanding, Government feels fairly satisfied with the outcome of the credit. In particular
irreversible reform has been accomplished in the oil sector. The Energy Regulation Board will within
the pursuit of its mandate under the law continue to review the price adjustment for electricity. While
the FSC did not introduce the automatic tariff adjustment formula it supported it which was introduced
by the Power Rehabilitation Project. In retrospect the ATAF did not fully take into account the
requirements of the law. More so it would now seem obvious by the effects this has had on other sectors
of the economy and the public that inadequate analysis was given to the effects of applying the ATAF
on other sectors to achieve financial viability of ZESCO.
- 18 -



Govemment by requesting a reduction of ownership in INDENI by Total wants to: reduce monopoly
powers and its possible abuse. The shares given-up by Total will be sold to other buyers, and is not
intended to restore govermnent monopoly as has been interpreted by some analysts. This is to forestall
in advance a monopoly situation arising which could inadvertently jeopardize the oil sector strategic
interests of Zambia downstream.
The objective to improve public spending effectiveness was, as admitted by the ICR, the most difficult
to achieve mainly because the resource base under the control of MoFNP at any one time has continued
to be less than optimal to service the appropriations which Ministries are entitled to form the voted
budget. But moreso changing a system which has entrenched itself, particularly the demand side over
time during a lifespan of an adjustment operation, was rather optimistic. This is an area for reform not
over a short term but medium term. We (the Bank and Government) should continue to pursue the
objective of public spending effectiveness in subsequent adjustment operations. The adoption of the
MTEF and its internalization will go a long way towards achieving this goal.
The ICR statement "however since January 2002, a new budget system consolidated domestic and
foreign resources" is misleading because the budget system has always reflected both on the expenditure
and revenue side the two sources of resources - domestic and foreign. The sentence should read
"however since January 2002 a new budget system consolidated domestic and foreign BOP resources".
However' between 1994 and 2001 balance of payments support was only reflected in foreign budget by
Bank of Zambia and no corresponding local currency equivalent was provided in the Yellow Book.
It is worth noting that in future operations design of a package of reforms should avoid third parties
over which Govermment may not have controls. Tazama Pipelines is an example.
Yours sincerely,
Anna 0. Chifungula (Ms.)
ACTING SECRETARY TO THE TREASURY
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND NATIONAL PLANNING
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector) -
10. Additional Information
In addition to the main credit of SDR 105.5 million (33920), three supplementary credits were provided
under the same project:
33921 - Fifth Dimension, Dec. 2002,
33922 - Oil Supplemental (to provide additional BoP support required in light of the oil price increases),
Dec. 2002,
33923 - Fifth Dimension, May 2002.
- 19 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
i   -   nIrdIcalorlMa" ix-R---     --i-        ce   nl -            *t                  at-     i 
-~~~   ~~~:                     P6eedjiiat-PSR14'             ~-cua        Lts EstimateT
A. Deficits of State-Owaned Enterprises
A 1 ZESCO
A 1 1                                 Clearance of Arrears                   On-going
A. 1 2                                Completion of cost reduction measures  Effects begun but not completed
A. 1.3                                Tariff increases according to cnteria set out Two tariffs increased according to criteria.
Subsequent increases to be determined by
ERB
A. 2 ZNOC
A 2 1                                 Clearance of arrears to TAZAMA and other  Done ZNOC put into liquidaton
public entities
A 2 2                                  Offering for sale a majorty controlling interest Govemment sold 50% share of INDENI
in the package of INDENI, TAZAMA and  Refinery managed by pnvate entity Bidding
Refinery                              documents for TAZAMA prepared
A 2 3.                                 Retail pnces of petroleum products to be  Retail prices of petroleum products
significanUy lowered.                 liberalized  E R B. to monitor retail prices
after they have been determined by the oil
companies
A 24                                   Role of ZNOC limited to noncommercial  ZNOC put into liquidation
operations
A 3 Zambia Railways
A. 3.1                                Improve short-term cost recovery       ZR is being privatized by concessioning
A 3 2                                  Improved capital maintenance and provision  A small staff at ZR will oversee rehabilitation
of better services                    of assets and environmental mitigation works
B Bank of Zambia (BoZ)
B 1.                                  Reducion of BoZ deficit in relation to GDP  Done
B 2                                    Improvement in cash management flow to  Arrangements completed
spending ministries to minimize arbitrage
C Pension Reforms
C. 1                                   First pillar of NPS set up and operational  Completed
C 2.                                  Prudential investment guidelines issued and  Completed
implemented
C 3                                   Staff retrenchment at NAPSA carried out  Completed
satisfactorily and audit completed.
D Fiscal Management
D 1                                   Replacement of ad-hoc budget cash      The b ud e to allocate cash according to e he
management by rule-based system.       budget was parbaliy implemented
Monitoring of commitments and applicabton of This was done in 2001 and 2002
D 2                                   penarltes to officers who exceeded
allocations
D 3.                                                                         In the process of implementabon
Monitoring of commitments and applicabon of Mechanism moved to the Accountant
penarltes to officers who exceeded     General's Office.
allocations
D 4                                                                          Some protection of social sector shares was
Protection of shares of expenditure of social provided. Expenditures to economic
and economic ministries                ministries were not adhered to
D. 5.
Greater transparency in budget        Publicabon of cash outlays implemented but
implementation by timely publication of cash  checks on budget allocation were not
outays                                transparent.
Output Indicators:
-20 -



"7       lndi  M  tni,                   -- f  -                  -- ---.P :P .ii  laI j  W  --  al Ii  a   r
End of project
-21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
-Appraisal , - Actual/Latest:+ -.Percentage of
.'' ''- :..Estimate,,, Estimate    'Appraisal
Project Cost By Component ,     .      US$.million   US$ rnilfloin r
Balance of Payments Support Credit (credit 33920):   45.00          44.70            98.6
Tranche 1, August 14, 2000,
Tranche 2, September 27, 2001,                       45.00           43.85           97.4
Floating Tranche, June 27, 2002.                     50.00           49.43           98.9
Fifth Dimension (credit 33921), Dec. 27, 2000.        2.09           2.09             100
Oil Supplemental (credit 33922), Dec. 27, 2000.      30.66           30.66            100
Fifth Dimension (credit 33923), May 21, 2002.         6.84            6.84            100
Total Baseline Cost                                 179.59          177.57
Total Project Costs             179.59         177.57
Total Financing Required             179.59         177.57
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
.               ,     i          . P   P * t , , ^! | ~~~~~~~~~Percentage, Of Appraisal
Component            Appraisal Estimate  -      Actual/LatestEstimate- 
Bank     GovL   I CoF.*     Bank   I Govt    - CoF.. -. 4vfnk- Govt. .CoF.
-22 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
- 23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions.
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc)    Implementafion Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
05/17/1999 -                5   1 Lead Economist and I            S            S
11/9/99                         Economist (HQ); I Sector
Specialist (HQ) 2 Consultant
Appraisal/Negotiation
05/08-18/2000               4   1 Lead Economist (HQ); I          S            S
Economist (RM); 1 Lawer
(HQ); I Consultant
5/11-16/1999                2   1 Country Director for Zambia;    S            S
1 Zainbia Res. Rep.
Supervision
06/13-28/2001               6   1 Lead Economist (HQ); 1          S            S
Economist (RM); 1 Sector
Specialist (RM); 1 Fiscal
Management Consultant; 1
State Owned Enterprises
Consultant; Res. Rep.
10/27/2001                 12   3 Economists (HQ); 1 Budget       S            S
Management Spec. (RM); 2
Budget Management
Consultants; 2 Pension Reform
Consultants; 1 Capacity building
specialist (HQ); 1 Petroleum
Specialist (RS); 1 Petroleum
Consultant
ICR
09/16/2002                  2    Lead Economist and 1             S            S
Economists ( Consultant)
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Laiest Estimate
l__ __ __ __ __ __ __ _  No. Staff weeks  US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             54.9                     123,000
Appraisal/Negotiation                 24.60                  442,920.64
Supervision                           61.15                   384319.24
ICR                                    3.49                      37,066
Total                                 144 14                  887315.88
Actuals include expenses on supplementary credits (Oil Supplement and Fifth Dimension). US$ amounts
include indirects.
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Neghgible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
FMacro policies                        O H  OSUOM O N O NA
3Sector Policies                       O H  OSUOM O N       O NA
LII Physical                           O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
Li Financial                           OH   OSUOM      O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development            O H  O SU O M O N    0 NA
LO Environmental                       O H  OSUOM O N O NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM O N O NA
EjGender                         O H  OSUOM O N O NA
O Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM O N       O NA
O Private sector development           0 H  O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Public sector management             0 H  O SU O M   0 N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
X Lending                                          OHS*S OU OHU
Z Supervision                                      OHS OS       OU     O HU
Z Overall                                          OHS OS       O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
Z Preparation                                       OHS      Os  Ou    O HU
X Government implementation performance             O HS O S    0 U    0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       O U   O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS      O u    O HU
- 26 -









Report No.:       25048
Type:    ICR



