Report No. PID8716
Project Name                     Zambia-Fiscal Sustainability Credit (FSC) (@)
Project ID                       ZMPE39016
Borrower(s)                      Government of Zambia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of  Finance and Economic
Development
Environment Category             C
Date this PID prepared           June 5, 2000
Project Appraisal Date           May 8, 2000
Projected Board Date             June 27, 2000
Background
Since 1991, the Zambian Government has pursued a program of economic
stabilization and liberalization designed to reverse the country's economic
decline and put it on the path of sustainable growth. Prices were
decontrolled and subsidies eliminated, inflation was brought down
significantly, market forces were allowed to determine the exchange and
interest rates, quantitative restrictions on imports were eliminated; and the
tariff structure was compressed and simplified. Parastatal monopolies have
ended, crop marketing was liberalized, and a far-reaching privatization
program has made good progress. The central government budget deficit (after
grants and debt rescheduling) declined from 7 percent of GDP in 1991 to 2.3
percent in 1997, although it rose again to about 4 percent in 1998-1999. The
privatization of non-mining public enterprises has continued at a rapid pace,
with over 80 percent of companies/units privatized by December 1999, out of a
total portfolio of 282.
Although efforts to privatize the copper parastatal ZCCM suffered delays in
1998 and most of 1999, on March 31, 2000, Anglo American Corporation completed
the purchase of the Nampundwe mine and the Konkola, Nchanga and Nkana
Divisions of ZCCM. As lesser mining interests formerly owned by ZCCM have
also been sold to private investors, all assets in the sector, except for the
Nkana smelter and refinery, are now in private hands, paving the way for new
management and new investment. Discussions between the Government and the IMF
have also continued, and in May 2000, the Government reached understandings
with the Fund on the first review of the PRGF and on a program for 2000. At
the same time, the Government also discussed with World Bank and IMF staff its
interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and the debt sustainability
analysis that will be included in a preliminary Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries (HIPC) Initiative document which will be presented to the Boards of
the Bank and the Fund shortly.
Objectives
The Government's medium-term objective is to manage the economy more
effectively and achieve sustained growth in order to eliminate poverty over
the long run. This Credit aims to help Zambia sustain fiscal progress
achieved in recent years by: (i) expanding fiscal adjustment beyond the
central government to other public sector entities (state-owned enterprises,



pension funds, and the Bank of Zambia); and (ii) reestablishing fiscal
discipline through improvement in the predictability, accountability, and
transparency of public spending. In line with the poverty reduction strategy
articulated in the recent Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), the proposed
Credit would address poverty reduction objectives in two important ways.
First, at the general level, the Credit directly contributes to the
maintenance of a stable macroeconomic framework conducive to economic growth
by ensuring that fiscal progress achieved in the last few years will be long-
lasting. Second, the proposed reforms in budget management will help ensure
that public expenditures, especially social expenditures, will reach the poor
in the most effective way.
Description
The proposed Fiscal Sustainability Credit (FSC) would be the eighth structural
adjustment credit to Zambia since the clearance of Zambia's arrears to the
World Bank in March 1991. The Credit has two major components: (a) reduction
of the overall public sector (quasi-fiscal) deficit; and (b) improvement of
fiscal management in Zambia. To reduce the quasi-fiscal deficit, the proposed
Credit will support measures to reduce the deficits of several state-owned
enterprises, of the Bank of Zambia, and of the pension system. To improve
budget management, the Credit will support measures to increase the
predictability, accountability, and transparency in public spending.
In the area of state-owned enterprises, the Credit aims to assist the
Government reduce the drain on the budget by reforming the electricity
company, by offering for sale a majority controlling interest in a petroleum
sector package consisting of the refinery, the pipeline, and the Ndola
terminal, by liberalizing imports and retail prices of petroleum products, and
by private concessioning of Zambia Railways. Regarding the Bank of Zambia
(BOZ), the Credit supports measures to reduce the risk of new contingent or
actual liabilities developing on BOZ's books, and lower the government's cost
of domestic debt finance. In pension reforms, the Credit will support
measures to set up and implement a financially sound National Pension Scheme
(NPS) for Zambia, including reforming the National Pension Scheme Authority
(NAPSA), which has been put in charge of running the day-to-day operations of
the NPS.   Finally, the Credit's fiscal management component aims to reduce
the government's costs of purchasing goods and services, improve the
efficiency of government operations, and channel more resources into
economically and socially important sectors and ministries.
Environmental Aspects
The recommended environmental assessment category is C. The proposed
operation does not have a direct environmental impact.
Implementation
The proposed Credit of U$140 million will assist Zambia in meeting its
external financing requirements in 2000 and will facilitate the retrenchment
of redundant employees of NAPSA to enable its efficient operation. The Credit
will be disbursed through the Bank of Zambia with US$45 million available at
effectiveness; US$45 million tied to the second tranche with specific
conditions in the areas of pension reforms, Bank of Zambia's deficit, and
budget management; and US$50 million tied to the floating tranche with
specific conditions in the area of petroleum sector reforms.
- 2-



Financing
The proposed amount for operation will be SDR$105.5 million (US$140 million).
As a balance of payments operation, the proposed credit will finance 100% of
the foreign exchange costs of eligible imports.
Benefits and Risks
The main benefits of the FSC are macroeconomic stability, a sustainable fiscal
position, higher economic growth, and more efficient, effective and equitable
public expenditures, each of which is expected to have a significant and long
lasting impact on poverty reduction.
There are substantial risks associated with this program. The first source of
risk is that the reform program may falter because of major policy reversals,
external shocks, and/or limited institutional and managerial capacity. The
second source of risk is failure by the authorities to take specific reforms
supported by the Credit due to opposition from vested interest groups. These
risks have been mitigated by the strength of the Government's ownership and
commitment to implement the proposed measures, by the Government's significant
up-front actions, and by its active role in informing the public about the
benefits of reform and in consulting the private sector and donors in the
reform process.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Hinh Truong Dinh
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-0556
Fax:        (202) 473-8170
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 9, 2000.
- 3 -



