Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: P-7379-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY CREDIT
OF SDR 105.5 MILLION (US $140 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
May 31, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency unit: Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$1 = 2654 Kwacha (Average exchange rate of April 2000)
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric system
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAC            Anglo-American Corporation
ATAF           Automatic Tariff Adjustment Formula
BOZ            Bank of Zambia
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CEC            Copperbelt Electric Corporation
CEM            Country Economic Memorandum
CG             Consultative Group
CIR            Country Implementation Review
CMU            Commitment Monitoring Unit
DB             Defined Benefit Plan
DC             Defined Contribution Plan
EC             European Commission
ESAC           Economic and Social Adjustment Credit
ESAF           Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU             European Union
FSC            Fiscal Sustainability Credit
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GOZ            Government of Zambia
HIPC           Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA            International Development Association
IFMIS          Integrated Financial Management Information System
IMF            International Monetary Fund
LASF           Local Authorities Superannuation Fund
MOFED          Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
Vice President:                    Callisto Madavo
Country Director:                  Michael Sarris
Sector Manager:                    Philippe Le Houerou
Team Leader:                       Hinh Dinh



FOR OPFICIAL USE ONLY
MOH           Ministry of Health
MOLA          Ministry of Legal Affairs
MTEF          Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NAPSA         National Pension Scheme Authority
NPS           National Pension Scheme
OAG           Office of the Auditor General
OECD          Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAYG          Pay-As-You-Go
PCF           Pneumoconiosis Compensation Fund
PER           Public Expenditure Review
PFP           Policy Framework Paper
PRGF          Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSP          Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PWAS          Public Welfare Assistance Scheme
PS            Permanent Secretary
PSC           Public Service Commission
PSCAP         Public Service Capacity Building Project
PSPF          Public Service Pensions Fund
PSREP         Public Sector Reform and Export Promotion
PSRP          Public Service Reform Program
SIP           Sector Investment Program
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
WCF           Workers' Compensation Fund
ZANACO        Zambia National Comrnmercial Bank
ZCCM          Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines Limited
ZNOC          Zambia National Oil Company Limited
ZESCO         Zambia Electricity Supply Company
ZNPF          Zambia National Provident Fund
ZNTB          Zambia National Tender Board
ZPA           Zambia Privatization Agency
ZR            Zambia Railways
ZRA           Zambia Revenue Authority
ZSIC          Zambia State Insurance Corporation
This document has a restricted distbution and may be used by reipients only in te
peiformance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwinse be disclosed wihout
World Bank aithofizaton.






ZAMBIA
FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY CREDIT
Table of Contents
L.    THI  ECONOMY ...............................................................  1
A. Background .1
B. Recent Economic Developments.                                           2
11. ZAMBIA'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM .4
111. THE PROPOSED FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY
CREDIT (FSC).                                                              8
A. Background and Context.                                                 8
B. Reducing the Quasi-Fiscal Deficit .11
C. Fiscal Management .22
D. Poverty Impact .28
E. Board Presentation and Tranche Release Conditions .28
F. Implementation Arrangements and Assistance .32
G. Benefits and Risks .33
IV. BANK STRATEGYAND CURRENT OPERATIONS .34
V. COLLABORATION WITH IMF .36
VI. RECOMMENDATION .36
ANNEXES
A. Social Indicators of Development
B. Key Economic Indicators
C. External Financing Requirements
D. Status of Bank Group Operations
E. Evolution of Policy Reform Agreements
F. Zambia at a Glance
G. Pension reforms
H. Matrix of Policy Agreements
I. Performance Indicators
J. Letter of Development Policy
This operation has been prepared by a team led by Hinh Dinh (Principal Economist and Task Team Leader)
and comprising Abebe Adugna (YP, AFTMI); Heinz Bachmann (Consultant); Aniruddha Bonnerjee
(Economist, HDNSP); Gulam Dhalla (Consultant); Steve Gaginis (Disbursement Officer, LOAAF); Leonid
Koryukin (Research Analyst, AFTM1); David Lindeman (Advisor, HDNSP); Thuvara Nayar (Consultant);
Mushiba Nyamazana (Economist, AFMZM); David Wilton (Principal Financial Specialist, AFIPF);
Aberra Zerabruk (Senior Counsel, LEGAF); and Johannes Zutt (Operations Officer, AFC02). Mmes.
Debra Cubitt and Cristina Cheptea, AFTMI are the Team Assistants. The Peer Reviewers are Messrs.
Shantayanan Devarajan (DECRG), Paul Levy (LCC7C), and Malcolm Holmes (PRMPS).






- i -
ZAMBIA
FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY CREDIT (FSC)
SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Republic of Zambia
Implementing Agency:          Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
Amount and Terms:             SDR 105.5 million (US$140 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Description:                  This Credit aims to help Zambia sustain fiscal
progress achieved in recent years by: (i) expanding
fiscal adjustment beyond the central government to
other public sector entities (state-owned enterprises,
pension funds, and the Bank of Zambia); and (ii)
reestablishing fiscal discipline through improvement
in the predictability, accountability, and transparency
of public spending. In line with the poverty reduction
strategy articulated in the recent Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS), the proposed Credit would address
poverty reduction objectives in two important ways.
First, at the general level, the Credit directly
contributes to the maintenance of a stable
macroeconomic framework conducive to economic
growth by ensuring that fiscal progress achieved in
the last few years will be long-lasting. Second, the
proposed reforms in budget management will help
ensure that public expenditures, especially social
expenditures, will reach the poor in the most effective
way.
Benefits:                     The main benefits of the FSC are macroeconomic
stability, a sustainable fiscal position, higher
economic growth, and more efficient, effective and
equitable public expenditures, each of which is
expected to have a significant and long lasting impact
on poverty reduction.
Risks:                        There are substantial risks associated with this
program. The first source of risk is that the reform
program may falter because of major policy
reversals, external shocks, and/or limited institutional
and managerial capacity. The second source of risk is



- 11 -
failure by the authorities to take specific reforns
supported by the Credit due to opposition from vested
interest groups. These risks have been mitigated by
the strength of the Government's ownership and
commitment to implement the proposed measures, by
the Government's significant up-front actions, and by
its active role in informing the public about the
benefits of reform and in consulting the private sector
and donors in the reform process.
Disbursement:                 The proposed Credit will be disbursed through the
Bank of Zambia. Disbursement will be in three
tranches. The first tranche (US$45 million) will be
released at effectiveness. The floating tranche
(US$50 million) will be released when the specific
conditions related to reforms in the petroleum sector
are met. The second tranche (US$45 million) will be
disbursed when the specific conditions associated
with its release are met, which is expected to be
around August 2001.
Project ID Number:            ZM-PE-39016



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA PROPOSED
FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
1.   I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Zambia for SDR 105.5 million (US$140 million
equivalent) in support of its economic reform program. The Credit would be on standard
IDA terms, with an amortization period of 40 years, including a grace period of 10 years.
2.   The proposed Fiscal Sustainability Credit (FSC) would be the eighth structural
adjustment credit to Zambia since the clearance of Zambia's arrears to the World Bank in
March 1991. The objective of this Credit is to continue IDA's support of Zambia's
reform program, which aims to reduce poverty by restoring macroeconomic stability,
promoting sustained and diversified growth, improving governance and enhancing the
delivery of vital social services. The Credit has two major components: (a) reduction of
the overall public sector (quasi-fiscal) deficit and (b) improvement of fiscal management
in Zambia. To reduce the quasi-fiscal deficit, the proposed Credit will support measures
to reduce the deficits of several state-owned enterprises, of the Bank of Zambia, and of
the pension system. To improve budget management, the Credit will support measures to
increase predictability, accountability, and transparency in public spending.
3.  In line with the poverty reduction strategy articulated in the recent Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), the proposed Credit would address poverty reduction in two
important ways. First, at the general level, the Credit directly contributes to the
maintenance of a stable macroeconomic framework conducive to economic growth by
ensuring that fiscal progress achieved in the last few years will be long-lasting. Second,
each of the components of the Credit will have a specific and direct impact on poverty.
Reducing the quasi-fiscal deficit will help ensure adequate funding to help the poor and
other vulnerable groups, in addition to mobilizing domestic savings to finance higher
investment and growth. Reforming budget management will ensure that the
Government's budget priorities on social development and poverty alleviation will be
faithfully reflected in actual cash releases.
L. THE ECONOMY
A. BACKGROUND
4.   From the time of its independence in 1964 to the early 1990s, Zambia's economic
policy was characterized by pervasive state intervention in factor and product markets
and by large-scale state ownership of productive assets. The effects of these devastating
policies were not immediately evident because the country had use of resources generated
by the production and export of copper. But when the world copper price began to
decline, the inefficiencies of the economy became more evident as domestic incomes and
output came under increasing downward pressure. The Government attempted to offset



-2 -
the decline in copper earnings by borrowing heavily from abroad. This was insufficient
to halt the economic decline and Zambia's economy and income levels fell rapidly in the
1980s, while the country became heavily indebted.
5.   The new Government that took office in 1991 launched a program of economic
stabilization and liberalization designed to reverse the country's economic decline and
put it on the path of sustainable growth (Box 1). Prices were decontrolled and subsidies
eliminated, inflation was brought down significantly, market forces were allowed to
determine the exchange and interest rates, quantitative restrictions on imports were
eliminated; and the tariff structure was compressed and simplified. Parastatal monopolies
have ended, crop marketing was liberalized, and a far-reaching privatization program has
made good progress. The central government budget deficit (after grants and debt
rescheduling) declined from 7 percent of GDP in 1991 to 2.3 percent in 1997, although it
rose again to about 4 percent in 1998-1999. The privatization of non-mining public
enterprises has continued at a rapid pace, with over 80 percent of companies/units
privatized by December 1999, out of a total portfolio of 282.
6.   While the government has been quite successful in implementing this program, the
economy has responded slowly, with average annual growth of less than 1 percent in
1994-1998 compared to 3 percent growth of the population. Furthermore,
macroeconomic stability has not been fully achieved. While inflation has declined from
close to 200 percent in 1992-1993 to about 20 percent by 1997, it has remained between
20 and 30 percent since then. Moreover, the decline in GDP in 1998 after growth had
resumed in 1996 and 1997 shows that Zambia has not yet attained sustained economic
growth.
B. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
7.   Following two successive years of economic growth in 1996 and 1997, the
economy slowed down in 1998 due to a combination of internal and external shocks.
Much of this slowdown can be attributed to weak performance in the copper mining
sector, and in particular, to operational and financial problems at the copper parastatal,
Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM), which was, until its privatization on March
31, 2000, the largest public sector company in Zambia. A 25 percent drop in the copper
price, together with delays in ZCCM's privatization, substantially reduced copper
production and export revenues in 1998. At the same time, adverse weather conditions
contributed to a reduction in agricultural output, especially maize production. As a result,
in 1998 GDP declined by about 2 percent in real terms. Poor performance in copper and
agriculture contributed to a fall in foreign exchange earnings, which was exacerbated by a
reduction in balance of payments support. Together, these events led to a depreciation of
the Kwacha by over 60 percent during the year. The current account deficit (after
transfers) widened to about 11 percent of GDP, while official foreign exchange reserves
fell from two months of imports at end-1997 to less than two weeks of imports by end-
1998. Inflation rose to about 30 percent by year end, reflecting in part the pass-through
effects of the Kwacha depreciation. Although the government exercised fiscal restraint
on recurrent expenditures, capital expenditures increased at a time when balance of
payments support declined. The central government budget deficit (on a cash basis, after
grants) increased from 2.3 percent of GDP in 1997 to 4.4 percent of GDP in 1998.



- 3 -
8.   The economy recovered in 1999, aided by good weather and a relatively stable
exchange rate. Nevertheless, GDP grew by only 2.4 percent because of the continuing
adverse effects of the delays in ZCCM privatization. Increased production of maize, rice,
mixed beans, and cash crops (seed cotton and soybeans) contributed to a 13.7 percent
growth in the agricultural output. Overall economic growth would have been higher if
not for the decline in mining output (25 percent) and modest growth in the manufacturing
sector (3 percent), where the sources of growth were mainly in food, beverages and
tobacco. Despite a fall in foreign exchange earnings due to copper exports and to lower
than expected balance of payments support, the authorities managed to adhere to
stringent fiscal and monetary policies. This policy framework, combined with a
relatively stable exchange rate (compared to 1998), contributed to a decline in the end-of-
period inflation, from 31 percent in 1998 to about 21 percent in 1999.
9.   Despite a decline in central government revenues (caused mainly by factors related
to the delays in ZCCM privatization), the Government continued to pursue a tight fiscal
policy throughout 1999, with the result that the central government budget deficit (on a
cash basis, after grants) declined slightly, to 4.0 percent of GDP from 4.4 percent of GDP
in 1998. At the same time, largely because ZCCM and its suppliers experienced financial
difficulties in meeting their tax obligations in 1999, total tax revenue fell from 18.1
percent of GDP in 1998 to about 17.1 percent of GDP. The shortfall in revenues was
balanced by sharp cuts in expenditures: current expenditures fell from 17.3 percent of
GDP in 1998 to just 15.0 percent of GDP in 1999. This tight fiscal policy was
accompanied by a stringent monetary policy, as money and quasi-money grew at the
same pace as nominal GDP. On the external side, tightened imports compensated for the
drop in export earnings. As a result, the current account deficit (after transfers) declined
from 11 percent of GDP in 1998 to about 9 percent in 1999.
10.  Despite these considerable economic hardships, progress continued on a number of
policy fronts. In January 1999, the Anglo-American Corporation (AAC) signed a
Memorandum of Understanding with the Government for the purchase of the
Nampundwe mine and the Konkola, Nchanga and Nkana Divisions of ZCCM. In March
1999, the Government agreed on a new Policy Framework Paper with the Bank and the
IMF, and the IMF approved a new three-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
(ESAF) (now Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF)) program. In April, the
Government concluded a debt rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club. Progress on
the Public Service Reform Program (PSRP) continued, and the Bank released the
Floating Tranche of the Public Sector Reform and Export Promotion (PSREP) Credit in
early July 1999. Nonetheless, in the last half of 1999, a further delay in the privatization
of ZCCM and consequent delays in related balance of payments support increased the
vulnerability of the economic reform program and adversely affected the Government's
ability to meet some of the PRGF' s targets, particularly on the external side.
11.  In 2000, there has been significant improvement. On March 31, AAC completed
the purchase of the Nampundwe mine and the Konkola, Nchanga and Nkana Divisions of
ZCCM. As lesser mining interests formerly owned by ZCCM have also been sold to



-4 -
private investors, most of the assets in this sector are now in private hands', paving the
way for new management and new investment. In early April 2000, the Bank released
the Second Tranche of the PSREP. Discussions between the Government and the IMF
have also continued, and in May 2000, the Government reached understandings with the
Fund on the first review of the PRGF and on a program for 2000. At the same time, the
Government also discussed with World Bank and IMF staff its interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP) and the debt sustainability analysis that will be included in a
preliminary Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative document which will be
presented to the Boards of the Bank and the Fund shortly.
12. Given its debt overhang and developmental needs, Zambia remains extremely
dependent on external assistance, particularly for balance of payments support. This is
exacerbated by Zambia's dependency on copper exports and the declines in copper
prices. While net foreign direct investment has been encouraging (about $165 million in
1999), foreign aid has declined in recent years. Zambia's external debt reached about
$6.9 billion by end-1999, nearly twice the level of its GDP. Initial analysis shows that
even with sound economic policies and concessional borrowing only, Zambia's external
debt will remain unsustainable. Hence Zambia's entry into the HIPC debt relief initiative
is essential. Work on a detailed debt sustainability analysis has begun and Zambia could
be brought to a decision point in late 2000/early 2001.
13. The key policy reforms after the completion of ZCCM's privatization relate to
fiscal management and the judicious use of limited financial resources to maximize the
impact of public programs. Improving overall government transparency and
accountability through capacity building and institutional strengthening will help enhance
the investment climate and build external confidence. The Government also needs to
secure from external partners higher and more stable flows of balance of payments
support as well as debt relief and long-term financial assistance. As the CAS points out,
following a decades-long decline in the contribution of copper mining to the economy, it
is more clear than ever before that Zambia's future lies in diversifying and expanding
economic opportunities beyond copper, through learning new skills and producing
globally competitive goods and services, particularly in agriculture and tourism where the
potential is greatest.
IL ZAMBIA 'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
14. During the 1990s, Zambia pursued an ambitious program of structural reforms
aimed at removing the constraints to sustainable, diversified growth, improving public
sector efficiency and governance, and increasing access to basic services and poverty
interventions. Key elements in this reform process were: (i) decontrol of agricultural
prices and liberalization of maize marketing; (ii) privatization of state enterprises; (iii)
public sector downsizing, while redirecting expenditure toward the social areas; (iv)
removal of exchange controls and floating of the Kwacha; (v) liberalization of the
banking sector; and (vi) removal of quantitative restrictions on imports and exports, as
J The only remaining ZCCM asset still in the Government's hand is the Nkana metallurgical assets. No
buyer has emerged for these assets, which are now being managed by AAC.



- 5 -
well as the reduction of the level and dispersion of customs tariffs. Many of these
reforms produced positive results (Box 1).
Box 1: Main Econom-iic Reforms since 1991
The reform program launched in 1991 has brought substantial macroeconomic
stabilization and moved Zambia significantly toward a market economy:
* The primary deficit of the central government has declined from 7 percent of GDP in
1991 to 1 percent in 1999.
* Annual inflation has been reduced from 170 percent in 1991-92 to about 25 percent in
1998-99.
* Tax collection has risen sharply following the establishment of an autonomous
Zambia Revenue Authority (ZRA). A value-added tax (VAT) was introduced in July
1995.
* Exchange rates have been liberalized and are now market-determined.
* Quantitative restrictions on imports and all export bans have been removed. The
maximum tariff rate has been reduced from 100 to 25 percent and most raw materials
are now subject to zero tariffs. Most tariff exemptions have been eliminated. Duty
drawback and bonded warehouse schemes have been improved.
* A new Investment Act was passed in 1993. The Investment Center has been
reorganized, and new measures were implemented to streamline investment
approvals.
* A Public Service Reform Program (PSRP) has been actively pursued since 1993. By
the end of 1999, the PSRP had led to a reduction in the size of the civil service from
137,000 to about 102,000 public employees. The restructuring of 14 ministries was
also completed.
* The sale or liquidation of about 80 percent of public entities offered for sale,
including ZCCM, has been completed.
* Prices were decontrolled and subsidies eliminated; in particular, agricultural prices
and maize marketing have been liberalized.
* Interest rates have been liberalized. The financial sector has been reformed. The
Development Bank of Zambia has ceased new lending and insolvent institutions have
been liquidated.
* Other sector policies were also implemented (see Annex E).
15. Annex E provides details on the evolution of policy reforms in Zambia since 1992.
With most of the first-generation reforms implemented (Box 1), including the
privatization of its most important assets, ZCCM, Zambia is now ready to tackle the long
term second-generation structural problems that have prevented the Government from
managing the economy more effectively, achieving sustained growth, and reducing
poverty over the long run. The Government's medium-term program is outlined in the
latest Policy Framework Paper dated March 1999. In addition, as part of the CAS
consultations, the Government prepared a paper detailing guiding principles and priority
actions for its development program and its cooperation with the Bank and other partners.
These development principles can be grouped into three strategic areas - removing
constraints to sustainable, diversified growth; improving governance; and increasing



- 6 -
access to basic services and direct poverty interventions. The economic reform program
entails policy measures in the following areas:
16. Privatization and Parastatal Reforms: In 1992, Zambia initiated a program to
privatize public enterprises that accounted for some 80 percent of GDP and employed
140,000 workers. By end 1999, the list of non-mining enterprises to be privatized had
grown to 282 entities, of which 235 (83 percent) have been divested. However, it took
until March 31, 2000, to privatize most of the significant assets of ZCCM, an action that
is crucial for mobilizing the new investment, technology and management needed to
develop the copper sector. The delays in privatizing ZCCM, given Zambia's heavy
dependence on copper, meant that ZCCM's losses, which amounted to between US$15
million and US$20 million a month over 1997-1999, remained a major source of fiscal
stress to the Government, and a major impediment to potential economic growth. The
sale of ZCCM's remaining major mining assets marked a new era for Zambia. Almost all
copper assets are now in private hands.
17. Public Sector Reform: To stem declines in the cost-effectiveness of the public
service, the Government adopted a Public Sector Reform Program (PSRP) in 1993
aiming, inter alia, to reduce nonmilitary public employment, decompress public sector
salaries, and improve performance management systems. A limited hiring freeze,
instituted in August 1997, resulted in the size of the nonmilitary public service dropping
from 137,000 in 1997 to about 102,000 by end-1999. Within this significant downsizing,
efforts have been made to maintain adequate service delivery by protecting front-line
service providers (e.g. nurses, teachers, police) from retrenchment. Reforms have also
included measures to improve political and economic governance. The Government
presented a comprehensive governance program to donors at the May 1999 Consultative
Group meeting that builds on past actions (e.g. the establishment of the Anti-Corruption
Commission, training of justices, auditing and public tender reforms) and is closely tied
to PSRP measures aiming to raise the morale and performance standards of civil service.
18. Trade Liberalization and Exchange Policy: Extensive reforms within the
external trade regime commenced in 1992 and have continued throughout the decade.
Most licensing and quantitative restrictions on imports and exports have been eliminated
while the tariff structure has been compressed and simplified. The level and dispersion
of customs duty rates, which ranged from zero to 100 percent prior to 1991, by 1998
ranged from zero to 25 percent with only three non-zero rates. Average import duties
have been reduced to less than 15 percent, consistent with Zambia's commitments under
the Cross-Border Initiative (CBI). Complementing these changes, Government has
decontrolled foreign exchange and allowed the exchange rate to be fully market
determined.
19. Fiscal Reforms: The Government has made considerable progress in meeting its
objectives of removing distortions in the tax system and improving revenue performance.
On the direct tax side, many discretionary exemptions have been removed, thus
broadening the base and permitting a lowering of tax rates. On the indirect tax side, a
complex and distortionary sales tax regime was replaced by a value-added tax (VAT) in
1995, and the average level and dispersion of tariffs has been significantly reduced. Tax
administration has been enhanced by the establishment of the independent Zambia



- 7 -
Revenue Authority (ZRA) in 1994. Progress on expenditure policy and management has
been slower. The reduction in the central government deficit has been mainly through
expenditure compression enforced by a cash budgeting system introduced in 1993.
However, the procedures for allocating, controlling and monitoring expenditures have not
been consistently applied, and there have been insufficient underlying expenditure policy
reforms. As a result, large domestic spending arrears have accumulated; the structure of
government expenditure has been skewed away from the social sectors, recurrent
expenditures and infrastructure investment; the allocation of resources between and
within ministries has frequently been arbitrary and non-transparent; and there has been
increasing resort to off-budget financing and quasi-fiscal activities. Fiscal problems also
remain in the wider public sector, including local governments, state-owned enterprises,
and pension and special funds. This Credit will address many of these outstanding
problems.
20. Financial Sector Reform: Because of longstanding portfolio problems in several
state-owned financial institutions, the main priority in the financial sector has been
strengthening prudential oversight of the banking system. On November 1, 1997, the
new national payments system went into effect through the transfer of the operation of
the clearinghouse to commercial banks. The Development Bank of Zambia also stopped
undertaking direct lending and now limits its activities to loan recovery. By early 1998,
one distressed bank was taken over by a larger bank, while four others were put under
receivership. In addition, the Bank of Zambia (BOZ) has moved to strengthen
commercial bank regulation and supervision and has gazetted regulations on large loan
exposure, insider lending, and provisioning.
21. Sectoral Reforms: Many sectoral reforms are being supported by donors and IDA
through sector investment programs (SIPs), which are under implementation for
agriculture, roads, health, basic education, and water supply. Zambia's agriculture SIP
supports agricultural liberalization. Prior to 1993, Zambia heavily subsidized agriculture,
with maize-related subsidies alone accounting for more than 16 percent of the national
budget. Since then, the agriculture sector has been largely liberalized, input supply and
crop marketing have been privatized, prices have been set in free and open markets, and
restrictions on domestic and international trade have been removed. Almost all
agricultural public enterprises have been privatized, and private sector participation in the
marketing and distribution of agricultural inputs is encouraging. Despite recurring
drought and volatility in the international prices of its primary export commodities, the
share of agriculture in total GDP has been increasing compared to the mining, wholesale
and retail sectors. Agricultural exports in real terms have increased each year since 1994,
and now constitute over half of total exports. Nevertheless, serious constraints remain in
increasing the use of improved technology, particularly fertilizer and seed, and the
smallholder sector remains extremely vulnerable to risks of drought and animal disease.
22. A ten-year Road Sector Investment Program (ROADSIP) was launched in 1997 to
improve and rehabilitate the road network and elirninate the maintenance backlog. The
program aims to rehabilitate and maintain over 50 percent of the main road network, as
well as priority feeder roads. Government efforts will emphasize greater private sector
participation, improved control and prioritization of road sector expenditures, and
revenue mobilization through a Road Fund. In addition, the upcoming private



concessioning of Zambia Railways (which will be supported by an IDA project) will
facilitate the movement of goods.
23. In the health sector, reforms center around decentralization of decision-making and
responsibility for service delivery to levels of government closer to the recipient of
services. Reforms are also currently underway in the areas of nutrition and public
welfare. Over the past year, an extensive study of the National Food and Nutrition
Council (NFNC) was undertaken, and the Government has developed an agenda for
reform including redirecting the functions of NFNC to be more of a catalyst than a
service provider, and providing it with adequate resources. The Public Welfare
Assistance Scheme (PWAS) is to help the poorest of the poor, including widows,
orphans, the aged and the handicapped, deal with short-term disasters.
24. HIV/AIDS epidemic has posted a severe danger to Zambia's development. About
20 percent of the nation's adult population are HIV infected; 29 percent in urban and 14
percent in rural areas. HIV/AIDS related morbidity and mortality have risen rapidly and
have had a significant impact on population growth and life expectancy. It is estimated
that population growth in 1999 was only less than 2 percent, compared to a normal
growth rate of 3 percent in the absence of AIDS. Life expectancy has been reduced from
50.5 years in the 1980s to 42.6 in 1998. The deaths due to AIDS have created 550,000
orphans and caused the loss of productive capacity in thousands of households. The
AIDS epidemic can push poor households from acute or seasonal poverty to chronic
poverty. The proposed Credit contributes to the country's overall effort of combating the
HIV/AIDS epidemic by enhancing macro stability, improving the efficiency and equity
of public expenditures, and increasing access to basic social services.
III. THE PROPOSED FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY CREDIT
A. BACKGROUND AND CONTEXT
25. The lack of economic growth and macrostability in Zambia has its roots in public
finances. In early 1998, the Bank undertook a comprehensive analysis and assessment of
Zambia's overall public finance situation and outlook. Its main conclusions, presented in
a report, were two-fold. First, while the central government budget deficit had declined
markedly during the 1990s, the overall fiscal position of the public sector did not improve
as the Government was not able to control the non-central government components of the
public sector. Of these components, the most important deficits have been those of state-
owned enterprises, the Bank of Zambia, pension funds, and local governments. Second,
this slow progress on the fiscal front has been due in part to the lack of sufficient funds
and delays in the privatization program and in part to inefficiencies in the budget
management process, including arbitrary cuts, ad hoc decision-making in response to
cash shortfalls, and above all, a cash rationing system that creates distortions at the micro
level.
26. Fiscal adjustment is critical to Zambia for a number of reasons. First, without a
comprehensive effort to address the root causes of the permanent and intense fiscal stress
2 Zambia: Fiscal Management Report, World Bank Report 18552-ZA, November 19, 1998.



- 9 -
that has characterized the Zambian economy for several decades now, it is doubtful that
investment and economic growth will return. Second, the breakdown of fiscal discipline
has resulted in the budget losing its central role as an instrument in the allocation of
resources according to the country's priorities. Recent evidence from the upcoming
Public Expenditure Review (PER) shows that public expenditures have had very little
impact on poverty and economic growth. Third, as discussed below, even with the best
adjustment efforts, Zambia cannot tackle the fiscal problem alone. Zambia's debt burden
needs to be reduced to a manageable level, while adequate funding and technical
assistance at all government levels need to be provided on a sustained basis. Debt relief
and assistance is likely to be realized only when the Government has demonstrated
serious efforts to tackle fiscal problems on a sustainable basis.
27. Compared with other low and middle-income countries, Zambia's domestic
revenue performance is good, with revenues representing about 18 percent of GDP on
average. Expenditures are dominated by external debt service, the single largest
expenditure item. Since the early 1990s, the budget deficit of the central government has
declined despite a sharp reduction in copper revenues and grants. Adjustment has
oscillated widely, though, with bouts of sharp fiscal adjustment followed by prolonged
periods of inaction and worsening deficits. This pattern of fluctuating deficits has been
caused mainly by poor management of expenditures, as revenues were relatively stable
throughout this period. Given that Zambia's tax revenues are already relatively high for a
low-income country, prospects for a significant increase in total revenues are not
favorable. Fiscal adjustment will thus have to depend largely on improved control over
expenditures, in addition to the restructuring of internal and external debt.
Figure 1: Zambia: Evolution and Composition of Overall Public Sector Deficit
Z&*ia Odl Rh IicED  biatLbrChts 1995-1997      7Zambia: Percentage Share in Overall Public Sector Deficit, 1997
Pension Funds
7%
/F | - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Local Govt l
a.                                                    is,            // > 15% / >PtblieEnterpdses
36%
a,                        5Cenvtral\ 
171%
1995     1996      1997                                     BoZ Deficit
YAor                                                25%
0 03td G..nat (  NmGM C..=            Public Enterprises * BoZ Deficit O Central Goverunent 0 Local Govt U Penmsion Funds



- 10-
28.  It is estimated that the overall public sector deficit (quasi-fiscal deficit) -- which
includes the central government deficit plus the deficits of local governments,
extrabudgetary accounts, state-owned enterprises, and the Central Bank -- amounted to
about 13.6 percent of GDP in 1997 (Figure 1). The central government deficit accounted
for 2.3 percent of GDP and was financed by Treasury bills purchased mainly by banks;
the remainder of the overall public sector deficit was financed through arrears,
monetization, and implicit asset depletion. The cost of quasi-fiscal activities undertaken
by the central bank amounted to at least 3.5 percent of GDP.
29.  While data availability does not allow an up-to-date calculation of the total public
sector deficit for 1998 and 1999, preliminary indications show that this deficit has
widened since 1997. The fiscal positions of public institutions that lie outside the central
government have remained very weak. State-owned enterprises continue to represent a
huge drain on public resources. Operating losses of the largest state-owned enterprise,
ZCCM, rose from about 3.4 percent of GDP in 1997 to 9 percent of GDP in 1999, before
it was finally privatized. Similarly, the operating deficit of the Zambia Electricity Supply
Company (ZESCO) amounted to 1.6 percent of GDP in 1999. These losses will be borne
by the budget. At the same time, local governments have been adversely affected by
declining grants from and rising arrears of the central government. The country's
pension funds are also suffering from the enormous level of government arrears and the
fact that their investment portfolio has failed to perform. At the end of 1998, the accrued-
to-date liability of the Public Services Pension Fund stood at over US$500 million.
30. So far, the Government has relied heavily on the cash budget to restore fiscal
discipline. The cash budget system was introduced in 1993 as a temporary device which
aimed to impose a hard constraint on spending by linking monthly expenditures closely
to actual revenues received during the month. Over the years, this practice has evolved
into an ad hoc system where a special committee within the Ministry of Finance meets
several times a month to determine cash releases to ministries and other budget heads, in
line with revenues collected. The current cash rationing system as implemented in
Zambia has been fraught with problems, including non-transparency, ad hoc budget
decisions throughout the years that bear no relation to the original budget, inefficiencies
in government operations-, and sub-optimal allocations of scarce budgetary resources. It
is likely that today the cash budget's positive impact on stability is more than offset by its
negative effects on growth and poverty reduction.
31.  Clearly, fiscal sustainability in Zambia can only be reached if fiscal progress- both
quantitatively and qualitatively- is achieved at all levels of government. This, in turn, is
only possible if the Government, with the assistance of the international community, can
identify and implement a realistic program of fiscal adjustment aimed at:
(a)  Reducing the quasi-fiscal deficit, including deficits arising from state-owned
enterprises, pension funds, local governments, and the Bank of Zambia; and
3The prices that the Government has to pay for purchases of materials and supplies are higher than those
paid by the private sector. For more details on these issues, see "The Cash Rationing System in Zambia",
AFTM1, March 2000.



- 11 -
(b)  Reestablishing fiscal discipline and effectiveness of public expenditures
through improving the predictability, transparency and accountability in public
spending and gradually moving from the cash budget to a medium-term
expenditure framework (MTEF).
32. The privatization of ZCCM on March 31, 2000 was a significant step toward
bringing the quasi-fiscal deficit under control: ZCCM's operating deficit rose to about 9
percent of GDP in 1999. In addition, the difficult and complex problems of reducing
local government deficits have recently begun to be analyzed in a comprehensive study
on Fiscal Decentralization in Zambia.4 While the Government is in the process of
reviewing the recommendations of that study, an IDA project (the Public Sector Capacity
Building project (PSCAP)) has already begun to help build capacity at the local level to
tackle decentralization issues. IDA will also provide support for a local development
fund program (supported by IDA's Zambia Social Investment Fund recently approved by
the Board) which will support capacity-building and local development initiatives,
particularly in rural areas. In addition, the agriculture, health, and education sector
investment programs are based on decentralized management and implementation
structures. It is expected that future Bank operations, especially projects that are more
suitable to address the long-term issues of improving local and municipal finances, will
support Government efforts in reducing the fiscal deficits of local governments. In
parallel, the Government is continuing its efforts, supported by the IMF's PRGF, to
reduce the central government budget deficit.
B. REDUCING THE QUASI-FISCAL DEFICIT
1. PUBLICLY OWNED ENTERPRISES
Objectives
33. The most important part of the overall quasi-fiscal deficit (shown in Figure 1
above) arose from the financial losses of ZCCM. The sale of ZCCM therefore
constituted a major step in the direction of reducing theflow of the overall public sector
deficit in Zambia. However, the liabilities of ZCCM (that is, the stock of debt) estimated
at about US$588 million as of March 2000-still need to be settled. In addition, more
needs to be done to privatize the remaining state-owned enterprises, particularly of key
utilities such as the Zambia Electricity Supply Company (ZESCO), Zambia National Oil
Company (ZNOC), Zambia Railways (ZR), and other commercial and financial entities
that are being held in the current portfolio of the Zambia Privatization Agency (ZPA).
Without these further measures, it will be difficult, if not impossible, for the Government
to substantially bring down its non-financial public sector deficits. Moreover,
privatization of these public enterprises should lead to improved efficiency of these
sectors-an objective that is key to the development of the private sector in Zambia over
the medium to long-term.
4 See Oliver Sassa et al., Fiscal Decentralization and Local Government Finance in Zambia, June 1999. A
study directed by the World Bank, financed by DANIDA with support from USAID.



- 12 -
34. The financial situation of ZESCO has rapidly deteriorated over the years. By the
end of 1999, ZESCO owed about US$180 million to the Government in tax arrears, as it
had not been able to pay its taxes for a number of years, for several reasons. First,
ZCCM was not paying its electricity bills to the Copperbelt Electric Corporation (CEC), a
private company which buys bulk electricity from ZESCO and transmits it to the
Copperbelt for distribution to the mines and other consumers. The build-up of arrears by
ZCCM to CEC set off a chain of effects. In the absence of revenues from ZCCM, CEC
was not able to pay ZESCO, and so ZESCO was not able to pay its taxes to the
Government. Second, ZESCO's revenues have been adversely affected both by
inadequate tariffs and by payment arrears of the central Government and other public
sector agencies such as the Water Authorities. Third, ZESCO's billing system has
experienced serious problems with computers and software, leading to delays and errors
in billings and collections. Fourth, ZESCO has not yet completed the internal cost-
reducing measures needed to restore financial viability. So far, some progress has been
made. In particular, the privatized mines are paying their electrical bills; systemic
problems in billings and collections are being resolved (with billings, which used to lag
service by three to four months, now nearly current); and in February 2000, ZESCO and
the GRZ agreed to set off CEC/ZCCM debt against ZESCO' s tax liabilities owed to the
GRZ, thereby making ZESCO current on its tax liabilities. Even so, significant balances
remain outstanding from earlier ZCCM debt to the company and it remains important for
ZESCO's financial sustainability that the Government settles at least part of this debt.
35. Even more important than settling ZCCM arrears is the implementation of a viable
financial plan that ensures that ZESCO will not find itself in the same financial situation
again. To that end, the Government has committed itself to unbundling and privatizing
ZESCO. In October 1999, the Cabinet directed the Zambia Privatization Agency (ZPA)
to prepare a plan for ZESCO's privatization. Moreover, President Chiluba, in his speech
welcoming Parliament in 2000, reaffirmed this commitment. To realize this objective,
the Chief Executive of ZPA recently requested USAID to assist in the preparation of a
comprehensive study of strategic options and recommendations for private sector
participation in ZESCO. This study, which is expected to be concluded in early 2001,
will propose a strategy for a full restructuring of the sector, including privatization.
36. In the petroleum sector, where the Government's objective is to liberalize the sector
in an orderly fashion, little progress has been made. Despite its current monopolistic
position in the procurement, ownership and bulk storage of feedstock and in the
transportation, processing and marketing of petroleum products, the Zambia National Oil
Company (ZNOC) has been facing financial difficulties. ZNOC has incurred arrears to
TAZAMA, the company in charge of the TAZAMA pipeline from Dar es-Salaam,
Tanzania to Ndola, and possibly to other public entities. These financial losses can only
be contained if ZNOC is taken out of the petroleum processing and marketing business.
Moreover, under the current arrangement, Zambia is losing a considerable sum of money
annually through a combination of inefficiencies in the operations of ZNOC, the Indeni
oil refinery, and the TAZAMA pipeline. To meet petroleum product demand of 452,000
mt/year, Zambia until April 1999 imported about 486,000 mt/year of crude oil/product
mixture through the TAZAMA pipeline from Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania, for refining at
the Indeni refinery in Ndola. According to Bank studies, this system has cost Zambia
about US$6 million per annum in operational inefficiencies. A fire in the Indeni refinery



- 13 -
in April 1999 has rendered that facility inoperable and forced Zambia to import
petroleum products, at high expense, by road and rail. Further study has shown that
converting the pipeline to product mode will reduce oil transport costs and may yield
significant oil exporting opportunities (as products can be offloaded at any pumping
station along the pipeline).
37.  So far, the operating costs of Indeni and ZNOC have been passed on to consumers
in the form of higher retail prices. Zambia would be clearly better off if the Government
offered for sale a majority controlling interest in the refinery, the pipeline and the Ndola
product terminal, as a package, to a strategic partner or group of partners, allowing the
winning partner, on taking possession of the controlling interest, to determine whether the
pipeline will be operated in crude mode or in product mode. Meanwhile, any work on
rebuilding tne refinery and/or other facilities would be deferred until the new owner takes
possession of the assets. The Government should also make definite steps to liberalize
petroleum product prices, and approve open and equal access to the pipeline facilities by
all licensed marketers. At the same time, imports of petroleum products should also be
open to all marketers so that the Indeni refinery operation is either made competitive or
closed down. It is also important to establish a robust payment mechanism for TAZAMA
so that TAZAMA is under no obligation to provide service to non-paying entities.
38. In the railways sector, although the Government is no longer providing a direct
operating subsidy to Zambia Railways (ZR), it has from time to time been forced to write
off its loans to the company as ZR has never been in a position to service them. In
addition, continuous neglect of maintenance by ZR has led to a gradual deterioration of
assets to such an extent that a substantial injection of private or public capital is necessary
to prevent the company from collapsing altogether. To that end, it is necessary to create
conditions for involvement of the private sector in the operation and management of key
railway functions as well as open up railway infrastructure to more than one operator
after an agreed period of exclusivity for the concessionaires in order to (i) enhance
competitiveness of rail operations; and (ii) reduce Government's financial support to the
railway sector.
Proposed measures under the FSC
39. Concerning ZCCM' s liabilities, the Government has reached an agreement with all
parties on the amount of ZCCM debt and cross-debt to be settled and has begun to
implement an action plan to speedily clear these arrears.
40.   Concerning ZESCO, the following measures have been implemented:
*  An agreement has been reached between the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development (MOFED), ZESCO, and CEC on the amount of debt and cross-debt to
be settled, including an action plan to clear the arrears in an orderly manner;
*  Electricity tariffs have been raised by 25 percent effective April 2000; and
*  Future retail tariffs will be adjusted according to revenue requirements as agreed with
IDA as well as to the approved Automatic Tariff Adjustment Formula (ATAF). An



- 14 -
agreement has been reached between ZESCO and the Electricity Regulatory Board
(ERB) on the specific modalities of the operation of the ATAF formula.
In addition, the following steps will be taken in order to help ZESCO achieve financial
viability:
*  Implement further measures to reduce ZESCO's operating costs. ZESCO's cost
reduction measures have so far mainly focused on outsourcing of non-core activities;
tighter control of telephone, transport and fuel expenditures; and effective freezing of
new recruitment. New measures over the next twelve months will include restrictions
on salary increases; divestiture of residential properties; and restructuring of the
current short-term borrowings into medium-term loans;
*  Improve billing and revenue collection;
* Conduct a study to investigate options for privatization and to review the legislative
and regulatory framework to establish an enabling environment for private sector
participation; and
*  Adopt a suitable privatization option, based on the above study and in consultation
with IDA.
41.  In the petroleum sector, the Government recently cleared the arrears that Zambia
National Oil Company (ZNOC) had with TAZAMA. Furthermore, to improve efficiency
of the petroleum sector, the Government has decided to offer for sale a majority
controlling interest in the refinery, pipeline and terminal, as a package, to a strategic
partner or group of partners. The winning partner, on taking possession of the controlling
interest, will determine whether the pipeline will be operated in crude mode or in product
mode. Meanwhile, any work on rebuilding the refinery and/or other facilities will be
deferred until the new owner takes possession of the assets. The Government intends to
implement the following measures to restructure the petroleum sector:
*  Issue bidding documents for the transfer of a majority controlling interest in the
package to a strategic partner or group of partners that will be required to operate the
assets in accordance with market principles;
*  Establish a robust payment mechanism for TAZAMA to ensure that it is remunerated
in full and in a timely manner for its services. The mechanism could also include a
procedure whereby TAZAMA would be remunerated with products which it could
dispose of for its own account;
*  Fully liberalize imports (so that all oil marketing companies could import petroleum
products directly) and retail prices of petroleum products; and
*  Limit the role of ZNOC to manage and control strategic reserves of petroleum
products (leaving all commercial operations to oil marketing companies) equal to
thirty days of average national use.



- 15 -
For Zambia Railways (ZR), the Government has implemented the following measures:
* Approved (at the Cabinet level) the private concessioning of ZR infrastructure and
selling/leasing of locomotives and rolling stock in order to: (i) overcome problems
associated with public ownership and management, viz., inefficiency, over-
investment, waste, excess employment, and financial losses; and (ii) provide the
much needed capital to address problems of deferred maintenance and upgrading of
the track;
* Rationalized staff levels at ZR, in consultation with IDA. Retrenchment has reduced
staff levels from almost 5,900 to about 3,300.
In addition, the Government plans to implement the following measures:
* Reform the regulatory framework. The safety and environment-related regulation for
the railways, currently exercised by ZR itself, is inadequate and unsatisfactory. There
is a need to establish an autonomous regulatory body to enforce technical and
economic regulations more effectively. This body would be expected to deal with,
among other things, fair competition, and fair trade practices;
* Wind up or restructure ZR. Since ZR will no longer have a role once the freight and
passenger services are concessioned, the company should be either restructured to
operate as an asset holding company or wound up within a short period after the
concession becomes operational.
2.   BANK OF ZAMBIA DEFICIT
Objectives
42. As a result of fiscal stress, the Bank of Zambia (BOZ) has undertaken substantial
quasi-fiscal activities in recent years. These activities have largely been in response to
domestic financial and external payments crises (especially related to declining copper
prices) which created the need to support distressed financial institutions, cover losses on
guaranteed public sector liabilities denominated in foreign currency, provide subsidized
credit to public entities or to failing state-owned enterprises, and provide overdrafts to
commercial banks. The effects of these activities have contributed to high inflation (as
BOZ losses are monetized) and a high cost of debt financing by the Government (as a
very weak Central Bank balance sheet reduces the Central Bank's ability to conduct open
market operations and causes market inefficiencies). A careful analysis of the money and
bond markets in Zambia5 shows that interest rates on government debt are currently
biased upward by volatile short-term interest rates and frequent shortfall of bids in
treasury bill auctions
43. A comprehensive solution to the BOZ deficit should address three issues. First,
since the root causes of this deficit lie in the real sector, i.e., the state-owned enterprises
and the lack of budget discipline, unless problems in the real sector are addressed, and/or
5Zambia: Money, Bond, and Foreign Exchange Markets, AFTM1, September 1999.



- 16 -
the Central Bank is completely independent from the Government, the quasi-fiscal
deficit will always remain as a symptom. The proposed Credit addresses this issue
through measures dealing with publicly owned enterprises outlined above. Second, a
number of policies could be implemented to reduce the risk of new contingent or actual
liabilities developing on the books of the Bank of Zambia. The Credit proposes to limit
BOZ exposure to potential future losses, especially overdrafts to weak banks and
guarantees to state entities. Third, the operations of BOZ could be enhanced to minimize
the fiscal cost of Government debt finance. In this respect, the Credit proposes: (i) to
improve efficiency in cash management; (ii) to reduce the uncertainty premium in
domestic interest rates; and (iii) to improve MOFED's and BOZ's debt management.
The last three measures are briefly reviewed below.
44. Improve efficiency in cash management. The Government of Zambia is currently
losing a considerable sum of money through inefficient cash management that creates an
arbitrage opportunity for the commercial banks. Line ministries are funded throughout
the month via regular transfers from their accounts at BOZ to "mirror accounts" at
commercial banks whenever they need to make payments. As checks drawn by line
ministries on their accounts at commercial banks are credited to their recipients' accounts
with a delay of at least four days (and up to 10 days for payments outside Lusaka), these
accounts always show substantial balances on which commercial banks pay no interest.
At the same time, to maintain monetary control, the Bank of Zambia must sell treasury
bills to sterilize the injection of liquidity caused by the funding of the commercial bank
accounts. The commercial banks then purchase treasury bills, which currently yield
around 37 percent, using funds made available by line ministry deposits on which the
banks pay no interest. Furthermore, the Zambia Revenue Authority does not bank its
receipts regularly over the month, causing a build-up of government deposits in the
commercial banks. If revenue were transferred promptly to the Government's account at
the Bank of Zambia, the average volume of treasury bills on issue would decline.
45. Balances in commercial bank accounts could be minimized: (i) if BOZ changed its
cash management practice in relation to line ministries' accounts held at commercial
banks (for example, if transfers of funds from line ministries' BOZ accounts to their
mirror accounts at commercial banks were made four days after the corresponding checks
have been written rather than one day before); and (ii) if the Zambia Revenue Authority
banked revenue daily with the Bank of Zambia. The arbitrage opportunity would be
further reduced if commercial banks were required to pay interest on line ministries'
deposits at a rate equal or close to the treasury bill rate, as is the case in South Africa.
Efforts to introduce an electronic payment system would also help to resolve this issue.
46.  Reduce the uncertainty premium in domestic interest rates. Interest rates on
government debt are currently biased upward by volatile short-term interest rates and the
frequent shortfall in bids at treasury bill auctions. The volatility of short-term interest
rates in turn is due to intra-month fluctuations in the quantity of liquidity available to the
banking system while the shortfall in bids at auctions is due to a mismatch between the
quantity of bills offered and the funds available to purchase them. Both volatility and
auction shortfalls would be reduced if the quantity of treasury bills offered for tender was
based on a broader number of factors affecting system liquidity during the week, not just
maturing treasury bills (as is the case today). In particular, volatility would be reduced if



- 17 -
accommodation policy were less aggressively penal. Auction shortfalls would be
reduced if the Bank of Zambia actively managed the pattern of liquidity to ensure that
adequate funds were always available on the day of settlement to pay for treasury bills
sold at tender. Auction participation is reduced by lack of certainty as to the availability
of funds on the day of settlement. There are several methods by which this can be
remedied. For example, to ensure funding, the Bank of Zambia could supply sufficient
funds through open market operations on the day of settlement.
47. Debt management: The absence of an integrated strategy for sovereign debt and
cash management has contributed to the government's inability to efficiently finance
itself in the domestic market. The MOFED has put considerable effort into improving
the recording and servicing of external debt. This provides a base for extending capacity
into integrated recording of all debt and developing a debt strategy for Zambia. Domestic
debt is presently recorded by the Bank of Zambia, which reports to MOFED, but
MOFED does not have its own database of domestic debt with which to monitor the
overall exposure and integrate domestic and external debt management. Creating a
unified database on all debt at MOFED is the first prerequisite for developing the risk
management function in sovereign debt management for Zambia.
Proposed measures under the Fiscal Sustainability Credit
48. The BOZ has prepared amendments to the Banking and Financial Services Act
(1994) to enhance its power to sanction, take control of, and de-license banks and has
submitted these amendments to the Cabinet's Legislation Committee for approval. The
Government will make provision in all future budgets to indemnify the Bank of Zambia
for any probable loss on new guarantees that will be called upon. These actions will help
avoid any future losses by BOZ caused by support of distressed financial institutions,
provision of overdrafts to commercial banks, and guaranteed public sector liabilities
denominated in foreign currency. Furthermore, a plan has been prepared by BOZ and
MOFED to alter cash management practices in relation to ministerial accounts held at
commercial banks so as to minimize the arbitrage opportunity that presently exists.
Given these proposals, the Government intends to take the following measures:
*  Submit to Parliament proposed amendments to the Banking and Financial Services
Act (1994) to enhance the BOZ's powers to sanction, take control of and de-license
banks;
*  Make provision in all future budgets to indemnify the Bank of Zambia for any
probable loss on new guarantees that will be called upon;
*  Adopt a cash management method, agreed by BOZ and MOFED, to minimize the
arbitrage opportunity presently created by ministries' accounts at commercial banks;
*  Reduce the uncertainty premium in domestic interest rates. Specifically, the BOZ
will reduce volatility in the overnight interest rate from current levels and increase
participation in treasury bill auctions by making an appropriate mix of modifications
to: (i) liquidity management operations (to create a smoother daily path of excess
reserves); (ii) accommodation policy (to reduce the extreme nature of the penalty for



- 18 -
failure to meet liquidity requirements); and (iii) the reserve maintenance period (to
reduce the sensitivity of banks to daily fluctuations in reserve money); and
* Create, within MOFED, a unified and integrated database for recording and
monitoring external and domestic debt, including monitoring the timeliness of debt
service payments.
3.   PENSION REFORM
Objectives
49. Annex G surveys the existing pension schemes in Zambia, analyzes their
weaknesses based on the latest actuarial evaluations, and sets out a vision for both
systemic and non-systemic pension reform options in the country. Reforming the
existing pension schemes should be an immediate Government priority for the following
reasons: First, as discussed above, arrears on pension schemes are a contingent liability
of the Government and need to be controlled. Government is the ultimate guarantor of
the public pension schemes, and its arrears to the Public Services Pension Fund (PSPF)
and the Local Authorities Superannuation Fund (LASF) have been rising at an alarming
rate over the past years and threaten the country's fiscal solvency and sustainability.
Second, the Public Service Reform Program (PSRP) calls for an effective delivery of
safety nets to complement the civil service retrenchment process. A well planned
pension reform would help to support and complement the PSRP staff retrenchment
program, and thereby contribute to the political sustainability of the economic reform
program. Third, a pension reform should help domestic resource mobilization through
capital market development. In particular, it could help reduce the crowding out of
private sector investment through releasing resources which would have otherwise been
used to finance the government budget deficit. Furthermore, it could help to mobilize
financial saving, and efficiently channel such savings into productive investment. Higher
economic growth could in turn be achieved through greater mobilization of savings.
Finally, a pension reform will help labor market mobility by allowing for portability of
pension benefits as and when individuals change jobs.
50. There are six major pension schemes in Zambia. All of these schemes have been
undermined by very low coverage, fundamental flaws in benefit-design and revenue-
collecting mechanisms, excessive administrative costs and a lack of autonomous
investment policy and proper fund management. The two most important pension
schemes are the Public Service Pensions Fund (PSPF) and the National Pension Scheme
(NPS). Together they account for over 95 percent of total statutory membership and over
80 percent of all schemes including the occupational schemes. These two schemes are
also the most important in terms of need for urgent reforms.
51.  The Public Service Pensions Fund (PSPF) is highly insolvent, and its accrued-to-
date liability stood at over US$500 million (or about 15 percent of GDP) as of end
December 1998. Its financial problems are attributable to a distorted benefit formula, the
Government's failure to pay its statutory contributions to the Fund, the lack of a
separation between employment-related benefits and pension benefits, and the lack of
administrative and computing facilities. PSPF is in serious financial difficulties and



- 19 -
cannot continue in its present form. While some short-term improvements are possible,
they cannot possibly bring about a satisfactory long-term solution. For a number of
reasons related to Zambia's Constitution (discussed further below), a long-term solution
can only be achieved through setting up a new pension scheme for civil servants. The
opportunity to create a unified, financially viable national pension scheme lies in the
newly created National Pension Scheme (NPS). However, the NPS as it currently stands
has several weaknesses including poor design, weak governance structure and investment
policy, and very high administrative costs.
52. The National Pension Scheme Authority (NAPSA) is the administrative agency
responsible for implementing and operating the new NPS. NAPSA was made effective
February 1, 2000, incorporating all the formal ZNPF staff (1,093 personnel). By doing
so, NAPSA has taken the responsibility of honoring the collective bargaining agreement
negotiated by the Zambia National Provident Fund (ZNPF) in 1998.
53.  NAPSA has already undertaken a series of preparatory steps towards administrative
cost reduction through implementing a staff redundancy plan. In particular, experienced
consultants have undertaken an evaluation of NAPSA's optimum human resource
requirements and in this context prepared a detailed organogram showing job positions
for NAPSA's efficient operation. Based on this study, NAPSA submitted a preliminary
staff retrenchment plan to the Bank for its review. As a result of the Bank's review, the
Bank and the GRZ agreed that the GRZ would undertake the following steps to
implement the program:
*  Prepare a detailed organogram indicating each position required to operate NAPSA
efficiently and the job description and corresponding skills requirement for each
position;
*  On the basis of the above, identify the number of positions that can be filled by
existing ZNPF/NAPSA staff, the number of personnel that should be retrenched and
the number of personnel with specialized skills to be hired from outside
ZNPFINAPSA;
*  Determine the cost of retrenchment on the basis of the number of personnel
retrenched, the collective bargaining agreement of 1998, and the Employment Act;
*  Determine the overall cost of the program after estimating the cost of minor training
for existing staff (as required) and recruiting new personnel with specialized skills;
and
*  Initiate a counselling and training program for the retrenched staff.
A detailed program will be prepared on the above basis for the Bank's review prior to
Credit effectiveness. The Government will provide NAPSA with resources up to USD 5
million needed to finance the cost of retrenchment and will consult with IDA on the
terms and conditions of the subsidiary loan agreement it will enter into with NAPSA.
This subsidiary loan agreement will be approved by the NAPSA's Board of Trustees.



- 20 -
54. Given the tremendous challenges ahead, combined with the country's current
limited capacity and lack of adequate data, it will be impossible to overhaul the entire
pension system in the country overnight. However, a first well-defined segment of the
pension reform program is addressed by the proposed Credit (FSC). In particular, the
goals of pension reform under the FSC will be two-fold: to establish and implement a
financially sound National Pension Scheme (NPS) while at the same time improving the
financial viability of the Public Service Pensions Fund (PSPF). This focus is justified
both by the urgency of the problems at hand, and by the need to extend previous World
Bank efforts in assisting the Government of Zambia to develop a unified national pension
plan.
Proposed Measures under the Fiscal Sustainability Credit
55.  The Public Service Pensions Fund. In principle, restoring the financial solvency
and sustainability of the PSPF would require that the benefit and contribution formulae of
the Fund be revised, the Government pay its outstanding liabilities, and employment-
related benefits be separated from pension benefits. In practice, these measures are
unlikely to impact the financial position of the Fund in any significant and long-lasting
way because of a constitutional barrier. While revisions to the benefit and contribution
formulas could include: (a) reducing the benefit rate; (b) raising the length of service
before retirement; (c) raising the retirement age; (d) raising the contribution rate; and/ or
(e) reducing the commutation factor, changing the first three parameters would not effect
those who have begun their careers prior to 1996 because their pension benefits are
protected by Zambia's Constitution. Reforms in these areas would, therefore, require
amendments to the pension provisions in the Constitution which would require a two-
thirds majority vote in Parliament as well as approval in a popular referendum. Given the
constitutional hurdle, the best course of action appears to be to phase down the PSPF over
the long-term, while consolidating and improving NPS to make it fair and cost-effective
and to allow portability (i.e. compatibility) with the private sector. The new national
pension scheme will then house the new civil servants joining the labor force.
56.  In the short-run, in order to stem further financial losses to the PSPF, it is proposed
that the Government clear the arrears to the Fund and begin to implement some or all of
the principal recommendations of the Actuarial Report of the Fund, published in 1999.
To partially clear its arrears to the Fund, the Government has already allocated K26
billion in the 2000 budget. The Actuarial Report recommendations include: (i) raising
the Government's contribution rate to a higher percentage of pensionable emoluments;
(ii) using a revised commutation table; (iii) reducing commutations to one-third; (iv)
making no benefit improvements without consulting the actuary; (v) charging a market
interest rate if an employer delays its contributions; (vi) making all contribution payments
within 30 days as required by Section 31 of PSPA; (vii) converting receivable assets of
the Fund into tangible assets such as treasury bills and government bonds; and, (viii)
conducting an actuarial valuation every year for the next 3 years. These measures can
help improve the financial position of the Fund in the short-term, but are by themselves
not sufficient to bring about a lasting solution to the financial insolvency of the PSPF
without amendments to Zambia's Constitution.



- 21 -
57. The National Pension Scheme: In 1996, the Government enacted a law creating a
National Pension Scheme (NPS) for all existing members of the Zambia National
Provident Fund (ZNPF) and new entrants, including both federal and municipal
employees joining the civil service. The provisions of the National Pension Scheme Act
of 1996 (NPS Act 1996) allow for the creation of a mandatory NPS that would harmonize
all the existing plans. The NPS Act 1996 was made effective on February 1, 2000, and
the National Pension Scheme Authority (NAPSA) has been put in charge of running the
day-to-day operations of the scheme. As shown in detail in a technical paper6, although
the NPS Act 1996 is a good starting point for building a social security system, in its
current design it is not comprehensive enough to provide adequate income protection.
58. Proposed specific policy measures on how to improve the new NPS include the
following short-term measures:
* Adopt financially sound contribution and benefit parameters for NPS.
* Establish a transparent governance structure and prudential investment guidelines for
NPS.
* Reduce NPS's administrative costs, principally through implementing a redundancy
plan prepared for NPS, based on recent optimal human resources evaluation.
59.  In addition to these short-term measures, the following medium to long-term
measures are critical for the success of a well-run pension system in Zambia:
* Undertake a training and human resource upgrade for core staff of NPS, strengthen its
information and database system, and decentralize NPS in order to ensure provincial
access to pension services.
* Strengthen the occupational pension schemes. (The effort to create a unified,
financially viable national pension system should be complemented, to the extent
possible, by measures to strengthen the functioning of current occupational schemes
that would complement the statutory schemes. This will enhance the pension benefits
from the mandatory schemes. Proposed changes that are required to revamp the
different occupational schemes are summarized in Annex G.)
* Move the NPS towards a multi-pillar system and rely on three pillars7 to produce an
adequate income and provide about 60 to 70 percent replacement rates of pre-
retirement salaries for a full career worker. (This system would have several
advantages over the currently proposed national pension plan: it supplements the
existing system; integrates both poverty reduction goals and income replacement
6 See Pension Reforms in Zambia: An Analysis of Issues and Policy Options, AFTM1, March 28, 2000.
7The first pillar will be a defined benefit plan based on a pay-as-you-go (PAYG) basis. The second pillar
will be run on a defined contribution (DC) basis with decentralized fund management. Based on salaries in
the range of 2 to 4 gross average wages, this pillar would provide a vehicle for long term savings
mobilization in Zambia. Individual (pension) accounts will be privately managed and held in segregated
trust accounts under appropriate custodianship. It is expected that this scheme will be regulated and
supervised by an agency to be determined by the GRZ. The third-pillar would allow for voluntary risk
sharing activities between employees and employers.



- 22 -
goals; and allows for better risk diversification, labor market mobility, improved
compliance and improved financial markets, all of which would enhance efficiency
and broader macroeconomic goals such as increased national savings and
investment.)
60.  Together, these short and long-term measures are expected to ensure the financial
viability and sustainability of the NPS and help create a unified national pension scheme
that will absorb new civil servants in the future. The focus of this Credit will primarily
be on implementing the short-term measures.
4. SUMMARY
61. The above measures will go a long way towards reducing Zambia's quasi-fiscal
deficit and helping to restore macroeconomic stability. At the end of this adjustment
period, Zambia's quasi-fiscal deficit will no longer contain losses of publicly-owned
enterprises and arrears to pension funds. The overall public sector deficit will be cut
significantly from an estimated 20.1 percent of GDP in 1999 to about 8 percent of GDP
in 2001, assuming that the magnitudes of the other components of the over-all fiscal
deficit (e.g., local government, extra-budgetary funds, etc.) remain the same.
C. FISCAL MANAGEMENT
Objectives and Overall Strategy
62. The ultimate goals of the Credit's fiscal management component are to improve the
predictability, accountability and transparency in public spending in order to help restore
the credibility of the voted budget and resolve the problem of lack of fiscal discipline in
budget execution. At the same time, the proposed measures would help Zambia move
toward a more conventional budget system, based on a strategic policy and expenditure
framework where line ministries are provided with greater responsibility for decisions
related to resource allocation and use.
63. As discussed above, until now, Zambia has relied on the cash budget (or cash
rationing) system to restore fiscal discipline. The cash budget was originally designed as
a temporary, short-term measure to reintroduce financial discipline by linking monthly
expenditures closely to actual revenues received during the month, excluding any new
borrowing from the Central Bank. To this end, a special committee within the MOFED
meets several times a month to decide on cash releases to ministries and other budget
heads by major expenditure categories in line with revenues collected.
64. A recent World Bank economic report8 has analyzed in detail this cash budget
system. It concluded that the way the cash budget has been implemented and managed
has greatly reduced the efficiency of government operations, led to a sub-optimal
allocation of scarce budgetary resources, and raised the prices Government has to pay for
its purchases of materials and supplies. This in turn has had an increasingly depressing
effect on economic growth and poverty reduction programs.
8 See The Cash Rationing System in Zambia, AFTM1, March 2000.



- 23 -
65. The efficiency of government operations has been severely affected by the erratic,
unpredictable, and widely fluctuating manner in which cash was released each month to
line ministries. This is particularly true for Recurrent Departmental Charges (RDC,
called 'operations and maintenance' in other countries), grants, and capital expenditures,
and to a lesser extent, for wages and salaries. For the Government as a whole, monthly
cash releases for RDC fluctuated by over 50 percent nearly half of the time during 1996-
98; for individual ministries these fluctuations were much larger and many ministries
went through months without any allocation for RDC at all. This situation has made it
virtually impossible to run a ministry or any other public service efficiently. It makes it
risky to plan any activity more than a few weeks ahead and virtually impossible to
execute given tasks at the most efficient and appropriate time. Activities are initiated
when money becomes available and not when they ought to be undertaken; they are often
interrupted for lack of cash releases, to be resumed later at additional costs; and
purchases of vital supplies are made without the necessary cash release in hand (hence
illegally), resulting in over-commitments, unpaid bills, arrears, and higher prices charged
by suppliers.
66. The large swings in cash releases to individual ministries were caused mostly by
similarly large swings - in the opposite direction-by cash releases to other ministries.
The introduction of the current cash rationing system rapidly led to the almost complete
demise of the annual budget as the determinant of government expenditures and its
replacement by the monthly cash releases. In turn, this opened the floodgates to all kinds
of requests for urgent increases in cash releases to certain ministries, often triggered by
short-term political considerations and immediate needs.
67.  In addition, the collapse of budget discipline after introduction of the cash budget
stimulated and facilitated a substantial reallocation of government expenditures during
the course of budget implementation. A detailed comparison of actual expenditures with
original budget appropriations for the year 1997, the latest year for which data is
available, reveals massive and systematic changes in expenditure priorities from
economically and socially relevant ministries towards general public services (such as
Home Affairs) and from the purchase of materials and supplies to wages and salaries. As
a result, actual public expenditures turned out to be considerably less development-
oriented than the budget enacted at the beginning of the year. Less obvious but not less
important was the shift in priority from the purchase of materials and supplies (RDCs) to
payment of wages and salaries. Among other things, this explains the shortage of funds
for school meals, drugs in hospitals, road maintenance materials and supplies, and
agricultural extension services.
68. In the longer run, to fully achieve its development objectives, Zambia should aim to
phase-out the cash budget system completely and revert to a more regular budget
implementation system. In the short term, under the proposed Credit, it can take a
number of measures to improve the predictability, accountability, and transparency in
public spending.



- 24 -
Proposed Measures under the FSC
69.  To improve predictability in spending by line ministries and autonomous
government agencies (budget heads), the cash release system will be modified by
introducing the concept of a quarterly cash allocation plan:
* On the basis of projected revenues and other inflows into the government account at
the Bank of Zambia, MOFED prepares within the last 10 working days of the
previous quarter a cash allocation plan. This plan, which will amount to 80 percent of
the Budget (Yellow Book) allocation for the corresponding three months, will be
subdivided into three monthly cash releases. MOFED will inform every spending
agency of their projected cash allocation (broken down by Personal Emolument (PE),
RDC, Grants, and Capital Expenditures) by issuing the cash allocation plan in the
Treasury Circulars. This will allow spending agencies to start planning their
activities for the entire quarter. Nonetheless, actual cash releases will continue to be
made on a monthly basis. Preparation of the quarterly cash allocation plans and of
the monthly cash releases will be done by the existing cash release committee in
MOFED enlarged by a representative of MOFED's Macroeconomics and Policy
Analysis Directorate.
* A set of rules will be issued indicating how reductions in cash allocations are to be
implemented if such reductions are deemed necessary. Among other things, these
rules would aim at protecting the social sector ministries from ad hoc transfers of
their budget allocations to other ministries and at protecting the economic sector
ministries from ad hoc transfers of their domestically-financed budget allocations for
project capital expenditures. In addition, budget allocations to the social sector
ministries will total at least 36 percent, and domestically-financed project capital
expenditures of the economic sector ministries at least 12 percent, of the discretionary
budget. Compliance with this measure would be monitored by specific targets for
cash releases to the priority ministries, thereby strengthening and expanding the
Bank's efforts to redirect public spending to social services, begun successfully with
the 1994 ESAC.
* A mid-year budget review will be undertaken by MOFED following present
procedures for the preparation and submission of supplementary estimates.
70.   To improve accountability in public spending, the following measures will be
implemented to strengthen commitment control and sanctions:
* MOFED will cut back quarterly cash allocations to over-commnitted ministries and
redistribute saved funds to ministries operating within their commitment ceilings. In
addition, for over-commnitting ministries, MOFED will impose strict controls on
expenditure commitments (e.g., by imposing a freeze on the signing of new project
contracts by the delinquent ministry until expenditure commitments are reduced and
by strictly enforcing the existing rule by which total outstanding expenditure
commitments are limited to 10 percent of the annual warrant;



- 25 -
*  Controlling officers of line ministries will submit regular, accurate, and
comprehensive monthly reports on total outstanding commitments (both new and
ongoing) on a timely basis (within 15 days after the end of each month). Non-
compliance with this rule will result in MOFED withholding monthly cash releases.
As an additional security against spending overruns, any unused quarterly
contingency should continue to be used to pay arrears in capital expenditures or else
carried forward to the following quarter. At the end of the year, any unused
contingency could be used to retire Government debt;
*  The Commitment Monitoring Unit (CMU) will monitor over-commitments carefully
and use information on expenditure commitments in the quarterly cash planning
exercises. The CMU will be required to prepare monthly reports summarizing the
situation of commitments, cash outlays, and payment arrears and provide these to
MOFED managers. Quarterly reports will be distributed widely, including copies to
ministries. For all ministries that exceed commitment limits or accumulate new
expenditure arrears, the quarterly reports will attach obligatory written explanations
by controlling officers of ministries as to the reasons why these adverse developments
have taken place; and
*  Controlling officers will be held personally accountable to enforce the new financial
regulations, which will specify clearly the sanctions and penalties to these officers
and delegated officials who fail to fulfill their responsibilities. To this end, the
Finance Act is being revised to include appropriate sanctions and penalties for
controlling officers who fail to fulfil their responsibilities. The revisions have been
completed and are under consideration within MOFED. They will subsequently be
sent to Cabinet for approval, and after Cabinet approval, a draft will be sent to the
Ministry of Legal Affairs (MOLA) for legal drafting and subsequent presentation to
Parliament.
71. To improve budget transparency and governance, and to facilitate monitoring, the
following measures will be implemented:
*  Within a month after the end of each quarter, MOFED will publish a quarterly report
on Government expenditures in the monthly Macroeconomic Indicators report, which
would include a comparison between actual cash releases by spending agency and
major expenditure category with the quarterly cash allocation plan and with original
budget allocations. Among other things, these reports would show from which
ministries funds have been taken away to finance new expenditure requests by other
ministries;
*  Furthermore, government financial statistics will be strengthened as an instrument for
fiscal analysis by providing expanded information on extra-budgetary funds,
contingency claims, quasi-fiscal activities, and financing plans, including the
projected level and composition of central government debt. As a next step,
information about the major state-owned enterprises, including their income
statements, will be published in the annual Economic Report issued by MOFED. In
addition, the Yellow Book will include two summary tables. The first one
("Government Domestic Operations") will show aggregate revenues and expenditures



- 26 -
by broad category9 and the second ("Annual Government Expenditure Summary")
will show expenditures by budget head and broad category, including preceding year
actuals and present year allocations. Finally, the monthly Macroeconomic
Indicators report will include a table showing the level and composition of external
and domestic government debt.
* The Office of the Auditor-General (OAG) will be equipped with adequate financial
resources to carry out audits of government accounts within a year of the end of the
year. The OAG will be called upon to investigate and report to parliament on
spending agencies that continue to make over-commitments.
72. The proposed new budget implementation system is assumed to start in mid-2000
after the proposed Credit has become effective. A mid-year budget review will be
undertaken in June 200010. The findings of this review will be used to formulate
supplementary budget estimates, in accordance with long term priorities as set out in the
Yellovw, Book, for subsequent submission to Parliament.
73. The short-term adjustment program under the proposed credit, as summarized
above, will be complemented by a number of activities to be undertaken by other
organizations (EU, IMF) and IDA projects and activities (e.g., PER, PSCAP). Bilateral
donors and other international organizations have supported measures to ensure that
financial regulations are enforced, commitment authority respected and sanctions applied.
These activities have a longer-term focus and will help to prepare and smooth the way for
an eventual full replacement of the cash budget (i.e. cash rationing system) by a regular
budget system.
Measures in the Longer Term:
74. When the new Government introduced the cash budget system in early 1993, this
system was conceived as a temporary, emergency measure to deal with an acute, serious
problem of overspending and run-away inflation the authorities found impossible to
control in a more conventional way. Seven years later, the emergency has largely
disappeared but the system is still in place. While opinions differ about the extent to
which the cash budget helped in reducing government expenditures, budget deficits, and
inflation, there is general agreement that in the longer term, the present cash rationing
system has to be replaced by a more conventional budget system, based on a strategic
policy and expenditure framework where line ministries are provided with greater
responsibility for decisions related to resource allocation and use. An important objective
of this framework is to increase the predictability of both policy and funding so that
ministries can plan ahead and programs can be sustained, while providing line agencies
with a hard budget constraint and increased autonomy, thereby increasing incentives for
the efficient and effective use of funds.
75. There is general agreement that this new system should take the form of a Medium-
Tern Expenditure Framework (MTEF). Such a system will establish a stronger link
9 On the revenue side, income tax, VAT, import tax, non tax revenue, and grants . On the expenditure side,
wages, interest on domestic and external debt, RDC, grants, and capital expenditures.
' Tis would be the 1't formal mid-year budget review in Zambia.



- 27 -
between government priorities and the budget within a sustainable spending envelope,
highlight the tradeoffs between competing objectives, and increase transparency and
predictability during budget implementation. Designing and implementing such a
system, however, is expected to take three to four years. In the interim, there is urgent
need to correct some of the most glaring shortcomings of the present system. As
described in more detail above, the FSC focuses directly on interim measures only. This
narrow focus is justified by the fact that the longer-term issues are addressed
simultaneously by other projects, either already approved or in the future lending
program. Thus, the FSC provides an urgently needed short-term input into a medium-
term effort. An important role in the medium and long term effort will be played by the
Public Service Capacity Building Program (PSCAP), an Adaptable Program Lending
(APL) operation recently approved by the Board, focusing on the medium-term
adjustment of Zambia's fiscal system through three successive phases.
76. Each of the three main components of PSCAP's first phase, rightsizing and pay
reform; public service and policy management; and financial management, accountability
and transparency is linked to the preparation of a budget based upon a MTEF process.
Activities include development of the MTEF-based budget system; a computer-based
system of funds management and accounting (the Integrated Financial Management
Information System, IFMIS), and a strategy for government institutions to be phased-out
of the "cash-budget" system. Progress in each of these areas will be crucial for sustaining
implementation of subsequent phases and objectives of PSCAP. Piloting of the MTEF
and IFMIS will commence in at least three key ministries.
77. At the end of Phase one, the feasibility and effectiveness of the MTEF and IFMIS
pilots will have been demonstrated, and necessary modifications introduced. Phase two
activities will focus on rolling-out these systems to all ministries. In tandem, the "cash
budgeting" practice will be phased-out, resulting in restoration of a budgeting and cash
disbursement system that will make available to public service managers a predictable
flow of resources and provide autonomy for spending decisions within the stipulated
sector policy and strategic priorities. During phase three, full automation and integration
of the budgeting, treasury management and accounting systems will be achieved in the
framework of the IFMIS. The various systems that make up the accountability
framework will be in operation (e.g., MTEF, policy/planning system, budget/planning
system, financial system, establishment control system, internal/external audit systems,
procurement control system) and strong links between the different systems will be in
place.
78.  In parallel to efforts to improve the cash budget and fiscal management in the
short-term (proposed under the FSC) and the long term (under the PSCAP), the
Government of Zambia is also undertaking jointly with the World Bank a Public
Expenditure Review (PER) to tackle issues of budget formulation and resource
prioritization and allocation across and within key sectors. The PER is a participatory
process involving other development partners such as donors and civil society, and it is
intended to provide the GRZ with information necessary to improve the allocation and
effectiveness of public spending. Here, effectiveness is meant to satisfy two criteria:
First, to ensure that the approved budget reflects the kind of spending most likely to
achieve the societal goals of reviving growth and reducing poverty and its social



- 28 -
consequences; and second, to ensure that the budget execution process is properly
managed so that expenditures translate into the goods and services intended or that they
reach the poor. The PER is expected to contribute directly to the Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper that the GRZ will be producing later this year. A significant feature of the
study is the integration in a more explicit way of the analysis of issues in public
expenditures, poverty and growth in Zambia. In that regard, the Government has
expressed a desire that the PER should not be a one-off but a continuous exercise to be
linked with the preparation of the annual budget. Hence, the joint PER 2000 will identify
gaps and issues for future study, including plans and provisions for a Government-led
PER for 2001.
D. POVERTY IMPACT
79.  In line with the poverty reduction strategy articulated in the recent Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), the proposed Credit will address poverty reduction objectives
in Zambia in several ways. Most generally, the Credit directly contributes to the
maintenance of a stable macroeconomic framework by ensuring that fiscal progress
achieved over the last few years in Zambia is consolidated even further, and that the
prospects for sustained growth and poverty reduction are improved. Inflation has been
shown to hurt the poor more than the rich. Reduction of the quasi-fiscal deficit of the
non-financial public sector through rationalization of state owned enterprises should
improve the efficiency of the public sector, and help the development of the private
sector for which availability and provision of efficient public services are often crucial.
Over the medium to long-term, such development should improve the prospects of
expanded real income and employment opportunities, and therefore lead to poverty
reduction in Zambia. Improved fiscal management will also help: (i) reduce the
Government's costs of purchasing goods and services; (ii) increase the cost-effectiveness
of government operations; (iii) channel more resources into economically and socially
important government ministries and services; and (iv) improve delivery of vital
economic and social services that would be beneficial to the poor. The pension reform
will help restore the pensioners' legitimate rights to pension benefits, and help reduce old
age poverty directly. Over the medium to long-term, the financial viability and efficiency
of the major pension funds in Zambia should prove beneficial to the Central Treasury, as
the Government is not only the ultimate guarantor of the Public Services Pension
Scheme, but also unlikely to successfully avoid bearing any financial losses associated
with the newly proposed National Pension Scheme.
E. BOARD PRESENTATIONAND TRANCHE RELEASE CONDITIONS
80. The full program of actions to be supported by the proposed Credit is set out in the
FSC Matrix (Annex H). Within this program, a subset of key actions has been identified
as conditions for effectiveness, when the first tranche of the proposed credit would be
released (expected in July 2000); other actions have been identified as conditions for the
release of a second tranche (expected about August 2001); and still others have been
identified as conditions for the release of a floating tranche (with release occurring
whenever the associated conditions are met). This floating tranche addresses the
restructuring of the petroleum sector, where progress depends on political decisions,
including Cabinet decisions, which cannot be easily tied to a particular timeline. The



- 29 -
maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework as described in the Letter of
Development Policy (Annex J) will be necessary to release all three tranches.
81. Conditions for Board presentation: Prior to Board presentation, the Government
will:
For state-owned enterprises:
*  Agreed on the amount of debt and cross-debt of ZESCO up to March 31, 2000 (by
auditors acceptable to the relevant parties);
*  Agreed (by ERB) and applied (by ZESCO) a 25 percent tariff increase for electricity
in April 2000;
*  Agreed (by ERB and ZESCO) on the specific parameters of the approved Automatic
Tariff Adjustment Formula for adjusting retail tariffs in the future;
*  Approved (at the Cabinet level) the concessioning of Zambia Railways as
recommended by ZPA; and
*  Agreed with IDA on the Zarnbia Railways staff rationalization plan.
For the Bank of Zambia:
*  Submitted to the Cabinet Legislative Committee proposed amendments to the
Banking and Financial Services Act 1994 to enhance the Bank of Zambia's powers to
act promptly and effectively to sanction, take control of, and de-license banks; and
*  Submitted (by BOZ and MOFED) a plan to alter cash management practices in
relation to ministerial accounts held at commercial banks so as to minimize the
arbitrage opportunity that presently exists.
For pension reform:
*  Agreed with IDA on staff retrenchment plans at NAPSA'1, including clear and
transparent retrenchment criteria prepared by the management of NAPSA;
*  Issued NAPSA statutory instruments to reflect parameters as contained in the
proposed regulations with respect to contribution rates, including contribution ceiling
and floor; and
*  Submitted to IDA draft NAPSA statutory instruments concerning benefit formulas,
minimum pension guarantee, required length of service, and accrual rate, as submitted
by the Ministry of Labour and Social Security to the Ministry of Legal Affairs.
Forfiscal management:
11 This refers to employees who were transferred from Zambia National Provident Fund.



- 30 -
* Agreed with IDA on the technical details of implementing the proposed changes in
budget management as described in paragraphs 69-72 above.
82. Conditions for effectiveness. Prior to effectiveness, the Government will have
completed the following action:
For pension reform:
* Issuance of NAPSA statutory instruments in the official Gazette to reflect parameters
as contained in proposed regulations with respect to benefit formulas, minimum
pension guarantee, required length of service, and accrual rate.
83. Conditions for Second Tranche Release: Prior to the Second Tranche Release,
the Government will have:
For State Owned Enterprises:
*  Commenced implementation of a debt settlement plan for ZESCO;
*  Approved (at the Cabinet level) the selected ZESCO privatization strategy and
implementation plan, in consultation with IDA, based on recommendations of the
study to be undertaken by ZPA; and
*  Established a regulatory body to enforce technical and economic regulations for the
railways and agreed with IDA on the restructuring or winding up of Zambia
Railways.
For the GRZ regarding the BOZ:
-  Submitted to Parliament proposed amendments to the Banking and Financial Services
Act (1994) to enhance the BOZ's powers to sanction, take control of and de-license
banks;
*  Agreed to make provision in all future budgets to indemnify the Bank of Zambia for
any probable loss on new guarantees that will be called upon; and
*  Created, within MOFED, a comprehensive and unified database for recording and
monitoring external and domestic debt, including monitoring the timeliness of debt
service payments.
For the BOZ:
* Adopted a cash management method, agreed by MOFED, to minimize the arbitrage
opportunity presently created by ministries' accounts at commercial banks.



- 31 -
For pension reform:
*  Submitted to IDA evidence on staff retrenchment, including an audit satisfactory to
the Association and carried out by an independent agency acceptable to the
Association, showing that NAPSA had implemented its Redundancy Plan;
*  Published in its official Gazette prudential investment guidelines for NAPSA, with
such guidelines involving a statement of principles, policies and objectives, rather
than a specific statement of asset categories and so forth, to be reviewed and agreed
by IDA;
*  Completed an actuarial evaluation of NPS to determine (i) the viability of a second-
pillar component; and (ii) the relative size of contributions that constitute individual
accounts; and
*  Commenced a study on insurance markets and annuities in Zambia and other selected
countries.
For fiscal management:
*  Completed the mid-year budget review for 2000;
*  Protected the share of social sector ministry budget allocations (at least 36 percent of
the discretionary budget) in the 2000 budget, as revised following the mid-year
review; and
*  Implemented, to the satisfaction of IDA, measures to improve the predictability,
accountability, and transparency of public spending, as described in paras. 69-72
above.
84. Conditions for Floating Tranche Release: Prior to the release of the floating
tranche, the Government will have:
For the petroleum sector:
*  Issued bidding documents for the transfer of a majority controlling interest in the
package of the Indeni refinery, TAZAMA pipeline and Ndola terminal to a strategic
partner or group of partners that will be required to operate the assets in accordance
with market principles;
*  Established a robust payment mechanism for TAZAMA to ensure that it is
remunerated in full and in a timely manner for its services. The mechanism could
also include a procedure whereby TAZAMA would be remunerated with products
which it could dispose of for its own account;
* Fully liberalized imports (so that all oil marketing companies could import petroleum
products directly) and retail prices of petroleum products; and



- 32 -
* Limited the role of ZNOC to manage and control strategic reserves of petroleum
products (leaving all commercial operations to oil marketing companies) equal to
thirty days of average national use.
F. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS AND ASSISTANCE
85. The proposed Credit of U$140 million will assist Zambia in meeting its external
financing requirements in 2000 and will facilitate the retrenchment of redundant
employees of NAPSA to enable its efficient operation. The Credit will be disbursed
through the Bank of Zambia with US$45 million available at effectiveness; US$45
million tied to the second tranche with specific conditions in the areas of pension
reforms, Bank of Zambia's deficit, and budget management; and US$50 million tied to
the floating tranche with specific conditions in the area of petroleum sector reforms.
86. Disbursement: Disbursement arrangements will follow the Bank Operational
Directive of February 8, 1996 on the Simplification of Disbursement Rules under
Structural Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustment Loans. The Borrower shall open, (prior
to furnishing to the Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account)
and thereafter maintain in the BOZ, a deposit account in US dollars on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall
be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. If after deposited in this
account, the proceeds of the Credit are used for ineligible purposes (i.e. to finance items
imported from non-member countiies, or goods in the standard negative list), IDA will
require the Borrower to either (a) return that amount to the account for use for eligible
purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to IDA, in which case IDA will cancel an
equivalent undisbursed amount of the Credit. Funds disbursed under the proposed Credit
will be released against satisfactory implementation of the program set forth in the Credit.
This includes compliance with stipulated floating tranche conditions, and progress shown
in carrying out the program set forth in the Letter of Development Policy from the
Government (see Annex J).
87. Reports: The Borrower will (a) furnish to IDA semi-annual reports on the exact
amounts received into the Deposit Account; (b) furnish to IDA the details of an FSC
Account into which the local currency equivalent of the Credit proceeds will be credited;
(c) furnish to IDA a report of the equivalent in local currency of withdrawals from the
Deposit Account showing that the FSC Account has been credited accordingly; and (d)
furnish to IDA semi-annual reports on receipts and disbursements from the Deposit
Account.
88. Audit: The MOFED will arrange for the audit of the Deposit Account, upon
request by IDA in accordance with auditing standards and terms of reference acceptable
to IDA and by auditors acceptable to IDA. The MOFED will make the report on the
audit of such records available to the IDA within four months of the close of the
Government's fiscal year.
89.  Administrative capacity remains a constraint on the Government's ability to
achieve the objectives of its economic recovery program. The Bank has been assisting
the Government's efforts to upgrade this capacity while recognizing that the direction of



- 33 -
this program must remain firmly in Zambian hands. Several IDA-assisted projects are
directed primarily at capacity building, including the Financial and Legal Management
Upgrading Project (which includes administrative strengthening of public procurement),
the Privatization and Industrial Reform Technical Assistance Project, the recently-
completed Economic Recovery and Investment Promotion Technical Assistance Project,
and the Public Sector Capacity Building Project (PSCAP). All investment projects have
major components addressing capacity issues, particularly the sector investment
operations in health, agriculture, roads, and basic education. Use has also been made of
the Institutional Development Fund in building capacity in advance of project
investments. Considerable technical assistance is being provided in the public sector
management area by other donors and by UNDP, and a possible follow-up capacity-
building operation by the Bank is under consideration. The IMF has provided technical
assistance to the Government on budget management since 1995, and a Resident Advisor
has been posted in MOFED. A technical assistance mission was mounted in March 2000
to assess progress in budget management. The policy measures supported by the FSC are
in line with the recommendations of that mission. The EC has also provided technical
and financial assistance in budget management and pension reform. Currently there are
two advisors from the EU working on budget management issues at the Ministry of
Finance.
G. BENEFITS AND RISKS
90. The primary benefit of this Credit will be the advancement of policy reforms in the
critical areas of reducing the overall public sector deficit and improving budget
management. These reforms should help restore macroeconomic stability, accelerate
economic growth and improve the impact of public expenditures on the poor. The
measures related to pension reforms should help the old and vulnerable segments of the
population while improving the mobilization of savings needed for long term economic
growth. Measures related to the cash budget should help improve the efficiency and
equity of public expenditures while restoring fiscal discipline.
91. There are substantial risks associated with this program. The first source of risk is
that the Government's reform program as a whole could falter. This could result from
major policy reversals and/or the impact of major external shocks, including a continuing
shortfall in external donor support because of either economic or governance-related
concerns. It could also result from Zambia's limited institutional and managerial
capacity, which may slow execution of the program. It could also result from a lack of
commitment on the part of the Government. After all, fiscal adjustment has been tried
before in Zambia with no tangible progress due to a combination of factors including
external shocks, lack of political will and lack of capacity. This risk could be mitigated
by a number of actions. First, the commitment of this Government to the proposed
reforms under FSC has been affirmed at the highest level and a number of significant up-
front actions have been taken. Second, many of the measures supported under this Credit
and previous adjustment operations have strengthened the capacity of the Zambian
economy to withstand external shocks, including the collapse in commodity prices.
Third, the Government has been acutely aware of the role of external donors in the
success of this adjustment effort and has engaged donors on discussions involving
governance-related issues. Donor relationships will be further consolidated during the



- 34-
next Consultative Group meeting, now scheduled for july 2000. Fourth, efforts have
been made to provide technical assistance to reduce the problems of capacity in
implementing the fiscal adjustment program.
92. The second source of risk for this Credit concerns the possibility that the specific
reforms supported under it are not undertaken, either because of opposition from vested
interest groups, or because the long lag time which makes it difficult to sustain reforms.
This risk is mitigated by the confirmation of political commitment at the highest level, by
the active policy dialogue that the Bank has been able to conduct with the Government,
and by the nature of our future financial support. More importantly, most of these long
term reforms, especially in the pension area and publicly owned enterprises, have been
initiated by the Government so that the ownership and the commitment of the
Government to implement the proposed measures are very strong. In the case of fiscal
reforms, a cautious design was adopted to ensure that while improvements on the
efficiency and equity aspects of expenditures are made, fiscal discipline will be observed.
Finally, on NPS, there is a risk that the agenda and timetable for reforms could pose
political problems. To mitigate this risk, the Government will continue consultations
with all major stakeholders during the formulation of its action plan and implementation
of the program, and rely on continued support from the Bank and other external partners
for technical assistance. Furthermore, as discussed above, a portion of this Credit is
earmarked to support the retrenchment plan of NAPSA. This should help reduce the
social cost of the proposed reforms.
IV. BANK STRATEGYAND CURRENT OPERATIONS
93.  Linkages with CAS: The FSC helps to realize the CAS goals in Zambia in several
ways. First, the Credit helps to achieve the goal of good governance through: (i)
improving transparency and accountability in budget management and (ii) increasing
public sector efficiency and capacity. Second, by helping to achieve macroeconomic
stability, the FSC would be instrumental in realizing sustained and diversified growth in
Zambia over the medium to long-term. Finally, to the extent that sustained growth
remains the best way to reduce poverty, fiscal solvency and sustainability is a
precondition for poverty reduction in the country.
94. Linkages with previous adjustment operations: The proposed adjustment
operation builds on previous programs in several ways. First, the FSC continues to build
on efforts initiated under previous adjustment credits to assist the Government in its
privatization program. Second, the FSC helps to strengthen macroeconomic management
by improving the predictability, accountability, and transparency of government
expenditure in the short run, and sustainability of the consolidated government budget in
the medium to long-run. Third, the FSC builds upon progress made under a number of
other Credits, including the PSCAP, to ensure that: (i) fiunancial resources are efficiently
allocated and utilized, and that the budget process will move to a Medium Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF); (ii) financial management policies, procedures, and
processes are improved; and (iii) capacity developed in MOFED to monitor and supervise
expenditure processes; (iv) accountability and transparency are achieved in budget



- 35 -
processes through publication of government's sectoral budget allocations; and (v)
expenditures in social sectors will continue to be protected..
95. Current Bank Assistance Strategy: The long-term objective of the Bank's work
in Zambia is to increase incomes and living standards for the vast majority of Zambians
who are poor. The challenge for the current CAS is to get Zambia on a sustainable
growth path that directly leads to more rapid growth and poverty reduction in the future.
96. In the area of macroeconomic management, the major thrust of Bank-supported
activities is in fiscal management, financial sector reform, and debt relief. Assisting
Zambia to obtain HIPC debt relief will be a major activity, with the expectation that
Zambia will reach the decision point in late 2000/early 2001 and a completion point as
soon as possible thereafter. During the CAS period (2000-2002), PFPs will be replaced
by Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSP), formulated by the Government, with
collaboration from IDA and the IMF, and in consultation with other external and internal
development partners. Concerning private sector efficiency and competitiveness, the
entire Bank Group, including IDA, IFC, and MIGA, has an important role to play.
Support for the Zambia Privatization Agency will continue under the Public Sector
Capacity-Building Project, and further steps toward the privatization of key utilities will
be supported under the next adjustment operation. IDA will also support the
Government's environmental mitigation efforts to clean up past environmental problems.
97. In the areas of transparency and accountability, the Government's governance
program highlights capacity-building and reform efforts towards increased transparency
and discipline in the use of public resources. Public auditing and procurement
improvements began under the Financial Management and Legal Upgrading Project
(FILMUP). This work will be continued and intensified under the Public Sector Capacity
Building Program (PSCAP) and is one of the program's central themes. It will be
complemented by the fiscal management reform work supported by the current Credit.
Zambia is also considering joining GCA (Global Coalition for Africa) efforts and
programs to combat corruption, and the Country Team will facilitate this to the extent
possible.
98.  Capacity building efforts are ongoing under the sector investment operations, and
public sector reform was the major theme of the FY99 adjustment operation.
Comprehensive public sector reform in Zambia - including retrenchments, improving
incentives, performance management, training, and revamping a wide array of personnel-
related systems - will take a number of years. The current Credit will help strengthen the
pension institutions to facilitate a more efficient and equitable retrenchment of public
sector employees. Work will continue under the multi-partner PSCAP. Strengthening
local government is a priority for the Zambian Government, but the policy framework is
not yet complete. Work on an overall local government and decentralization policy has
been ongoing for some time and could be supported by future IDA adjustment lending.
In the meanwhile, IDA is providing support for a Local Development Fund program - the
successor to both the Social Recovery Fund and the Rural Investment Fund - which will
support capacity-building and local development initiatives, particularly in rural areas.
The Zambia Social Investment Fund project was approved by the Board on May 25,
2000.



- 36 -
V. COLLABORATION WITHIMF
99. The programs of the Bank and Fund in Zambia have been closely coordinated since
assistance to Zambia resumed in 1991. Balance of payments needs are jointly agreed
among the Bank, the Fund, and the Government as part of the PFP (now PRSP) and
Consultative Group processes. Bank proposals on trade, taxation, spending allocations,
privatization, public service reform, fiscal and quasi-fiscal management, and related
structural policy benchmarks are coordinated with the Fund's fiscal targets, while the
Fund's macroeconomic benchmarks are developed in close consultation with the Bank.
A Policy Framework Paper for 1999-2001 was approved by the Bank and Fund Boards in
March 1999, and an interim PRSP will be prepared by July 2000. In March 1999, the
IMF approved a new three-year ESAF (now PRGF) program. However, in the last half
of 1999, the delay in the privatization of ZCCM and consequently, in related balance of
payments support, increased the vulnerability of the economic reform program and
adversely affected the Government's ability to meet some of the PRGF's targets,
particularly on the external side. Discussions on the PRGF have since continued, and in
May 2000, the Government reached understandings with the Fund on the first review of
the PRGF and on a program for 2000.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
100. l am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Washington, D.C.
May 31, 2000
Attachments



- 37 -
ANNEXES
A. SOCIAL INDICATORS OF DEVELOPMENT
B. KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
C. EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
D. STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
E. EVOLUTION OF POLICY REFORM AGREEMENTS
F. ZAMBIA AT A GLANCE
G. PENSION REFORMS
H. MATRIX OF POLICY AGREEMENTS
I. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
J. LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY



- 38 -
Annex A
Page 1 of 1
Zambia Social Indicators
Latest single year             Same region/income group
1970-75     1980-85      1993-98       Sub-Saharan          Low-
Africa      income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)             4.8          6.7          9.7             627.3       3,536.4
Growth rate (% annual average)                  2.9          3.1          2.1               2.2           1.4
Urban population (% of population)               34.8         39.7         39.4              33.3          30.5
Total fertility rate (births per woman)           6.9          6.9          5.5               5.4           3.1
POVERTY (% of population)
National headcount index                           ..           ..         68.0
Urban headcount index                            ..           ..
Rural headcount index                            ..           ..
INCOME
GNP per capita (US$)                             600          360          330               510           520
Consumer price index (1995=100)                    ..           0          183                128          136
Food price index (1995=100)                        ..           0          219
INCOME/CONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
Gini index                                         ..           ..         49.8
Lowest quintile (% of income or consumption)                    ..          4.2
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption)                   ..         54.8
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Health (% of GDP)                                ..           ..          2.3               1.5           1.3
Education (% of GNP)                            6.7          4.7          2.2               4.1           3.2
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)                       0.5
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                            ..          89           72                 ..           86
Male                                           ..          92           73                 ..           89
Female                                         ..          85           72                 ..           82
Access to safe water (% of population)
Total                                            ..          48           43
Urban                                          ..          70           64
Rural                                          ..          32           27
Immunization rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                          ..          49           69                58            80
DPT                                              ..          58           70                53            82
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)               ..           ..          24
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                           47           51           43                 50           63
Male                                          46           50           43                49            62
Female                                        49           52           43                52            64
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)              100           88          114                92            68
Under 5 (perthousand live births)              181          149          192                151           92
Adult (15-59)
Male (per 1,000 population)                  546          482          521               432           235
Female (per 1,000 population)                460          413          545               383           208
Maternal (per 100,000 live births)               ..           ..         650
2000 World Development Indicators CD-ROlv, World Bank



- 39 -
Annex B
Page 1 of 3
ZAMBIA - KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Actual                    Projected
Indicator            1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000  2001  2002
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic producta           100   100   100   100   100   100   100    100   100
Agriculture                     15.5  18.4  17.6  18.7  21.2  24.6  24.6   24.2  23.8
Industry                        39.8  35.9  34.8  34.2  29.1  24.5  28.7   29.3  29.8
Services                       44.7  45.7  47.7  47.1  49.7  50.9  46.8   46.5  46.4
Total Consumption                92.6  87.8  94.7  90.6  96.1  101.1  89.1   86.0  83.9
Gross domestic fixed investment  11.3  12.5  11.2  13.1  14.8  15.9  18.0   21.3  23.3
Government investment            4.0  5.1   6.0   5.4   9.6  10.5   9.9   10.5  10.7
Private investment               4.3  10.8   6.8   9.2   6.7   7.0   9.7   12.3  14.1
(includes increase in stocks)
Exports (GNFS) b                 36.0  36.1  31.3  30.1  26.7  22.3  30.1   34.9  36.9
Imports (GNFS)                   36.8  39.8  38.9  35.3  39.2  40.9  38.7   43.7  45.7
Gross domestic savings            7.4  12.2  5.3   9.4   3.9  -1.1  10.9   14.0  16.1
Gross national savings c         -0.2   4.6  -1.5   3.7  -3.6  -6.6   9.0   11.7  13.4
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product           3347  3463  3273  3910  3240  3150  3443   3554  3829
(US$ million at current prices)
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)    360   350   370   370   330   320   350    350  360
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1994 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices -8.6  -2.5   6.6   3.3  -1.9   2.4   4.0    5.0  5.0
Gross Domestic Income            -3.3   5.3  -1.2   0.8  -9.3  -5.3  15.9    5.3  5.4
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1994 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices-11.1  -5.1   3.9   0.8  -4.1   0.2   2.0    2.9  2.9
Total consumption                 ..  -1.6   1.4  -5.3  -5.9  -2.5   0.0    1.0  2.1
Private consumption               ..  -4.1   0.5  -5.9  -3.6   0.3   0.1    0.4   1.5
(Continued)



- 40 -
Annex B
Page 2 of 3
Zambia - Key Economic Indicators (Continued)
Actual                      Projected
Indicator             1994 1995 1996 1997 1998  1999 2000  2001  2002
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)b                  1175  1316  1113  1223   919   842  1036   1241  1413
Merchandise FOB                1067  1186   993  1119   816   755   937   1131  1291
Imports (GNFS)b                  1317  1518  1317  1521  1253  1169  1333   1554  1749
Merchandise FOB                1003  1194  1056  1218   971   871  1008   1166  1311
Resource balance                 -142  -202  -204  -288  -334  -327  -297   -313  -335
Net current transfers              -19   -20   -17   -16   -27   -16   -18    -20   -23
Current account balance after grants  -60  -146  -123  -311  -355  -285  -161   -160  -160
Net private foreign direct investment    40    97   117   207   198   163   150    200   250
Long-term loans excl. IMF (net) before   -127  -104   -49  9   -45   141    53    38   -34
debt relief
Other capital (net, incl. Grants, Debt relief,  640   473   411   326   212   214   335    562   591
err. & omissions)
Change in reserves d              -155    -2  -52   -33   211    -19   -78   -342  -339
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)        -4.2  -5.8  -6.2  -7.4  -10.3  -10.4  -8.6   -8.8  -8.8
Real annual growth rates ( YR94 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)          1.8  -4.9  -0.1  12.2  -12.9  -5.9   9.3   16.1   9.8
Primary                          -2.7  -10.4  -4.2   7.2  -14.8  -4.9   9.0   19.4   9.8
Manufactures                       ..  12.9  12.5  11.3  12.2  -2.3  10.1   10.3  10.2
Merchandise imports (CIF)          1.9  10.1  -7.5  21.5  -17.0  -11.2  11.9   14.5  10.2
(Continued)



- 41 -
Annex B
Page 3 of 3
Zambia - Key Economic Indicators (Continued)
Actual                     Projected
Indicator            1994 1995 1996 1997 1998  1999 2000  2001  2002
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices) e
Current revenues                 20.1  19.9  20.7  19.9  18.7  17.6  18.8   17.8  18.1
of which: tax revenues        18.7  18.2  19.0  18.8  18.1  17.1  18.5   17.4  17.7
Current expenditures             27.9  24.2  18.6  17.6  17.3  15.0  14.3   14.2  14.4
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-) -7.8  -4.4   2.1   2.3   1.4   2.6   4.5    3.5   3.8
Capital expenditure               4.0   5.1   8.7   7.6  11.3  12.5  16.6   14.8  14.1
Foreign financing                 9.4   9.3   8.4   7.1   7.4  10.9  11.7   11.4  10.9
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                           15.5  18.0  18.4  17.5  18.3  19.0  18.1   18.1  17.8
Growth of M2 (%)                 74.8  55.3  34.4  24.0  22.6  29.2  25.1   15.5  12.9
Price indices( YR94 =100)
Merchandise export priceindex   114.1 133.3 111.7 112.1  93.9  92.3 104.7  108.9 113.2
Merchandise import price index  124.5 134.7 128.8 122.2 117.5  118.6 122.7  124.0 126.4
Merchandise terms of trade index  91.6  98.9  86.7  91.7  79.9  77.8  85.4   87.8  89.5
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU),   169.2 162.0 169.5 203.0 221.0 233.1    ..
Consumer price index (% change)    53.6  34.9  43.1  24.5  24.4  26.8  22.9    8.4   8.2
GDP deflator (% change)          65.5  37.3  23.6  26.0  19.6  21.7  25.9   10.5   9.3
a. GDP at factor cost.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and non-factor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources and reserve changes of commercial banks ("-" denotes increase).
e. Central government.
f. "LCU" denotes "Local Currency Units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



- 42 -
Annex C
Page 1 of 1
ZAMBIA: External Financing Requirements
(Millions of US$)
1996   1997   1998   1999   2000  2001  2002
Exports of Goods and NFS                      1113   1233    919    842   1036  1241  1413
Imports of Goods and NFS                      1317   1521   1253   1169   1333  1554  1749
Other Current Account, excl. interest payments  -25    -26    -23     -6    -1    10    13
Current Account Balance, excl. Grants and Interest  -229   -314   -357   -333   -298  -303  -323
Payments
Debt Service before new rescheduling           453    376    355    328    388   379   362
Gross Financing Requirements                   682    690    712    661    686   682   685
Changes in Net Reserves 1/                      -52    -33    211    -19    -78  -342  -339
Debt Relief and other 2/                       107    128      -9      0     36   125   -40
Financing Requirements after Debt Relief and other   627    595    510    680    728   899  1064
Identified Financing                           627    595    510    680    728   709   618
Official Grants                             304    198    221    214    299   247   185
Official Loan Disbursements 3/              206    190      91    303    279   262   183
Direct Investment                           117    207    198    163    150   200   250
Financing Gap                                    0       0      0      0      0   190   446
Memo item:
IMF Purchases                                 0      13      0     14    27   139   139
IMF Re-purchase                               0      0       0      0      0   232   235
1/ Includes IMF purchases and re-purchases
2/ Includes payments of arrears, debt relief, other capital flows and errors and omissions
3/ Excludes use of IMF resources



Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
Difference      Last PSR
Between Expected  Supervision
Original Amount in US$ Millions     and Actual       Rating b/
Disbursements a/
Project ID  Fiscal            Purpose                                                   Orig.    Frm    Dev.  Imp.
Year                                    IBRD      IDA    Cancel. Undisb.             Rev'd   Obj.  Prog.
P003258   1994   Financial & Legal Matters            0.00     18.00    0.00     1.61      1.68    0.79   S      S
P003252   1994   Petroleum Rehabilitation             0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00  HU    U
P003218   1995   Agriculture Sector I                 0.00    60.00     0.00    20.30    24.06     1.20   S      S
P003239   1995   Health Sector                        0.00    56.00     0.00    27.03    29.25     0.00   U      U
P003210   1995   Social Recovery II                   0.00    30.00     0.00     0.47     4.12     0.00   S      S
P003241   1995   Urban Restrct. & Water               0.00    33.00     0.00     6.51      1.87    0.31   S      S
P040642   1996   ERIPTA                               0.00    23.00     0.00     4.50     4.83     0.00   S      S
P044324   1997   Enterprise Development               0.00    45.00     0.00    37.74    33.01     0.00   S      S
P003253   1997   Environmental Support Program        0.00     12.80    0.00    10.44     4.65     0.00   S      S
P003236   1998   National Road                        0.00     70.00    0.00    48.88     0.62     0.00   S      S
P035076   1998   Power Rehabilitation                 0.00    75.00     0.00    70.46    56.96     0.00   S      S
P003249   1999   Basic Education Sector Inv. Prg.     0.00    40.00     0.00    32.64     12.88    0.41   S      S
P050400   2000   Pub. SVC CAP (PSCAP)                 0.00    28.00     0.00    27.42     0.00     0.00   #
P063584   2000   Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF)      0.00    64.70     0.00    63.31     0.00     0.00   #      #
Total                                      555.50            351.31    173.93    2.71
a/ Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal
b/ Following the FY94 Annual review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - Highly Satisfactory, S - Satisfactory, U -    
Unsatisfactory, HU - Highly Unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



- 44 -
Annex D
Page 2 of 2
Zambia
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 4/30/00
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                    Disbursed
FY Approval  Company           Loan Equity  Quasi Partic  Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1998         AEF Amaka Cotton   1.30   0.00   0.00  0.00    1.30  0.00  0.00   0.00
1994         AEF Big Five Car    0.52   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.52  0.00  0.00   0.00
1999         AEF Drilltech       0.18   0.00   0.15  0.00   0.18  0.00  0.15   0.00
1999         AEF Esquire         0.40   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.40  0.00  0.00   0.00
1997         AEF JY Estates      0.89   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.89  0.00  0.00   0.00
1995         AEF Kaila Lodge     0.10   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.10  0.00  0.00   0.00
1997         AEF Pentire         0.57   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.57  0.00  0.00   0.00
1972/73      Bata Shoe ZA        0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00
1997         Finance Bank        3.77   0.00   0.00  0.00    1.27  0.00  0.00   0.00
1997         IMDHZ               0.00   0.50   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.50  0.00   0.00
2022         KCM                 0.00   5.63  24.38  0.00   0.00  5.63  3.28   0.00
1998         Nicozam             0.00   0.30   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.30  0.00   0.00
1999         Zamcell             4.50   0.60   0.00  0.00   4.50  0.60  0.00   0.00
Total Portfolio:       12.23   7.03  24.53  0.00   9.73  7.03  3.43   0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Equity Quasi  Partic
1999         AEF Kembe Estate    1.30   0.00   0.00  0.00
1999         AEF Mpelembe        0.70   0.00   0.30  0.00
2000         AP                  2.50   0.00   0.00  0.00
2000         Lusaka InterCon     4.60   0.00   0.00  0.00
1997         Safari Intl.        2.00   0.75   0.00  0.00
Total Pending Commitment:   11.10   0.75   0.30  0.00



ZAMBIA: EVOLUTION OF POLICY REFORM AGREEMENTS
A. MACRO
ERC               PIRC              PIRC 11            ESAC                 ERIP                        ESAC 11                      PSREP           RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/91)             (6/92)             (6/93)            (3/94)               (7/95)                       (8/96)                      (1/99)
General fiscal    General fiscal and  General fiscal    General fiscal and   General fiscal and  General fiscal and monetary        General fiscal and   Primary fiscal balance changed
and monetary    monetary              and monetary     monetary           monetary              performance                         monetary             from a deficit of 7 percent of
performance     performance           performance      performance        performance                                               performance          GDP in 1991 to about I percent
with specific                                                                                                                                            of surplus in 1999
limit on.net
banking credit                                                                                                                                           Annual inflation reduced from
over 170 percent in 1991-1992
to 25 percent in June 1998-99.
Harmonize sales tax                   Time-bound action  Introduce VAT                                                                  Zambia Revenue Authority has
on imports and                        plan for VAT;                                                                                     increased tax collection
domestic products                     Ensure parastatal                                                                                 performance;
Reform business                       dividends paid                                                                                    VAT introduced July 1995
taxation and broaden                  directly to
tax bases                             Govemment
Redirect budget to   Continue redirection    Redirect budget to social sectors and    Maintain the share    Social sector share of budget
social sectors and    of public spending  within those to certain priority   of core social sector  increased from 28 in 1993 to 36
within those to    from low-priority    categories, e.g., drugs and primary  expenditures in the    percent in 1999                      k
certain priority   areas to social      education                            health, education,
categories, e.g.,    services                                                safety nets, disaster
drugs and primary                                                            relief, and water
education                                                                    and sanitation
Increase nominal                                                                                                                        Interest rates completely
interest rates                                                                                                                          decontrolled in 1993;
Treasury Bill auction established
in 1993
Improve budget       Prepare guidelines for operation of
management           the Cash Budget;
procedures to avoid    Adopt and distribute procedures and                    System for monitoring arrears
arrears and          guidelines for Zambia National                           introduced
unplanned spending    Tender Board;
Establish time bound plan for public
procurement, covering
computerization, record keeping,
training, administrative strengthening
and external monitoring
Phase out maize   Eliminate maize and                                                                                                                    Maize and fertilizer subsidies  tQ   '
subsidies       fertilizer subsidies                                                                                                                 Teliminated                          __
OcH



B. TRADE
ERC                 PIRC                PIRC If                ESAC                 ERIP                 ESAC 11                  PSREP            RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/91)               (6/92)               (6/93)               (3/94)               (7/95)                 (8/96)                  (1/99)
Achieve market                                                                                                                                           Exchange rate determined by
clearing exchange                                                                                                                                        market forces
rate in second-
window forex
market
Expand OGL to all                                                                                                                                        All quantitative restrictions on
but a small negative                                                                                                                                     imports removed other than
list                                                                                                                                                    those for health, safety and
environmental resources
Remove export bans                                             Eliminate remaining                                                                       All export bans removed except
(except for ivory,                                             export ban on maize                                                                       for environmental reasons
oil, maize, and
fertilizer)
Compress tariff     Reduce top tariff     More tariff reduction                     Provide relief from   Adopt a tariff structure                       Highest tariff rate reduced from
rates               from 100% to 5 0%;    and compression                           transitional          with a maximum rate of                         100 to 25 percent, and number
adopt strategy for                                             anomalies in the      25%. Many raw                                  of tariff bands reduced to 4
further tariff                                                 tariff structure      materials would be free
reduction                                                                            of tariffs, capital goods                      Mechanism for relief from tariff
Introduction of VAT   would be charged 5%,                          anomalies adopted in 1994
will automatically   intermediate goods 15%                                                                 -
lower protection by    and final goods 25%                          Most raw materials subject to
eliminating "up-lift"                                               zero tariffs
factor               Eliminate most tariff
exemptions, including                          Transparency and simplicity of
for (jovemment                                tariff structure improved with
purchases, and no                              the elimination of most
introduction of new                            exemptions in 1996
exemptions; qualifying
NGOs to be given
refunds or vouchers for
customs duties
Simplify and                                                                             Offsetting credit system
liberalize duty                                                                         introduced for duty drawback in
drawback system                                                                          1994
Revarnp Duty           Revamped schemiies fully
Drawback (DD) and      operational; schemes have
Manufactures-Under-   helped to promote exports;
Bond (MUB)             Eliminated the Import           t
Schemes;               I)eclaration lFee as of July 1998.   m 
Eliminate the 5 percent                                C  0
Import Declaration                                     9  1
Fee.                                                   _ _
oo M



C. PRIVATE SECTOR
ERC                 PIRC                PIRC 11               ESAC           ERIP                     ESAC 11                     PSREP            RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/91)               (6/92)               (6/93)              (3/94)         (7/95)                     (8/96)                     (1/99)
Reform Investment    Evaluate                                                                                     Streamline   Investment Act of 1991 replaced with new
Law; prepare         effectiveness of                                                                             investment   Act in 1993;
investment           reformed Investment                                                                          approval     Investment Center reorganized;
guidelines;          Act and Investment                                                                           process      Investment Guidelines issued in 1995;
streamline operations   Center                                                                                                 The 1993 Investment Act was further
of Investment Center                                                                                                           amended in the 1996 Investment
(Amendment) Act of January 27 to
simplify the approval process; however,
full streamlining of the investment
approval process is yet to be achieved.
Liberalize licensing                      Prepare action plan                                                                                       Licensing requirements reviewed and
for small-scale                           for SSE deregulation                                                                                      simplified for new businesses
enterprise
Develop action plan    Create legal basis          Implement 1995 Land Act including the                  Market for leasehold land liberalized and
for land market      for market in                  Land Tribunal and the Land Development                regularized in 1995
leasehold land                Fund;
and facilitate                The Ministry of Lands to establish a
subdivision of                baseline performance assessment of its
land and property            leaseholds grants;
Informal urban settlements to be regularized
Increase budget                                                                     Road Maintenance Fund established,
allocation for                                                                      funded by excise tax on fuel
road maintenance
National Housing Policy                               National Housing Policy issued in 1995
Amend Employment, and Industrial and                                                              1
Labor Relations Acts
Begin liberalization                                                                                                                                Marketing of all crops liberalized in 1992;
of maize marketing                                                                                                                                  except temporary ban on maize O.exports
in 1995
Decontrol fertilizer                                                                                                                                All prices for agricultural products and
prices                                                         _________________                                                                    inputs decontrolled
Begin reducing      Eliminate consumer                                                                                                              Consumer subsidies ended in 1993
consumer maize      maize subsidy
-subsidy__ _ _ _ _ _ _                                   _ _ _
Adopt new mining sector policy to                     Mining policy statement approved by
encourage private sector investment;                  Cabinet in 1995
Adopt new legal, fiscal and environmental
frameworks;                                           New legal, environmental, and fiscal
Strengthen capacity of Ministry of Mines to           frameworks for mining adopted in 1995
oversee new legal, fiscal and environmental           Training and reorganization plan prepared
frameworks                                            under mining sector technical assistance
-o



D. FINANCIAL SECTOR
ERC                 PIRC                PIRC 11               ESAC                  ERIP                 ESAC 11                PSREP              RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/9 1)              (6/92)               (6/93)              (3/94)                 (7/95)                (8/96)                (1/99)
Reform Securities                                                                                                                   Foreign Exchange transactions
Law                                                                                                                                 liberalized, and exchange rate
market determined;
Eliminated all interventions in
credit allocations and interest
rates;
Establish stock                                                                                                                     BOZ introduced Treasury Bills
exchange and adopt                                                                                                                  weekly auctions;
capital market                                                                                                                      Reduced high reserve and
regulations                                                                                                                         liquidity requirements for
Amend Bank of                                                                                                  commercial banks;
Zambia Act to                                                                                                  Changed Banking and Financial
strengthen prudential                                                                                          Services Law to place all
regulations of banks                                                                                           financial institutions under BOZ
supervision;
Issued BOZ regulations for
banks;
Developed a Stock Exchange
and established a Securities
Exchange commission to
regulate it                             oo
End public          Reform business       Adopt business       Implement         Reform insurance industry                                               Opened the insurance industry to
monopoly on         legislation           legislation          simplified        policies and laws                                                       private companies; new
insurance industry                                             procedures of     (including pension-fund                                                 insurance law adopted
1993 Investment   management companies)
Act               and set up new regulatory
and supervisory agency
Prepare action plans                   Adopt policy framework                                                 Adopted new policy and
for DBZ, Eximbank                      and strategy for provision                                             strategy for term finance in 1995
and Lima Bank                          of term finance to private
sector;                                                                Development Bank has ceased
Restructure DBZ as apex                                                new lending
bank and create collection
agency for DBZ loan                                                    Apex established to on-lend
portfolio;                                                             extemal funds to private sector
Privatize or close down                                                through commercial banks
Eximbank and Lima Bank;
Reform rural credit and                                                Stopped budget allocations to    :
reorient Govemment-                                                    agricultural credit institutions in  
owned credit institutions                                              1995                            CD
Eximbank and LIMA Bank in       0  X
liquidationoot
o1-



E. CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
ERC                 PIRC                PIRC 11                ESAC                 ERIP                ESAC 11                 PSREP               RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/91)               (6/92)               (6/93)               (3/94)               (7/95)
Eliminate "ghost    Eliminate surplus                          Improve retention                          Maintain adequate                              Approved use of in-kind benefits
workers" by         civil service staffand                     incentives for high                       information system                              for severance payments in 1994
physical survey     "ghost workers"                            level staff                               with reliable data on
number and
Identify staffing   Retrench 10,000                            Reduce up-front                           deployment of                                   Nearly all workers now paid by
needs in line       workers and develop                        cash costs of                              teachers                                       check
ministries          deeper testructuring                       severance benefits
program; include                                                                                                                    Launched a public sector reform
compensation                                                                                                                        program; restructuring plans for
measures                                                                                                                             14 ministries approved
Reduce the size of the civil  A limited hiring freeze,
service by freezing        instituted in August 1997,
recruitment, retrenching  resulted in drop of the non-
the CDEs, reducing        military public service from
pensionable staffthrough   137,000 in 1997 to 112,000 by
voluntary separation and  end-1999.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  . __  enforcing  the  wage  freeze.
0
arQ 
oo t



F. PRIVATIZATION
Announce          Adopt overall          Update Privatization    Begin sale                                                                             Adopted Privatization Act in 1992
privatization     privatization          Program                 of state-
policy and        plan/strategy                                  owned                                                                                  Established Zambia Privatization
develop                                                          farms                                                                                  Agency (ZPA) in 1992
modalities        Enact Privatization
Law
Offer at least 6  Complete sale of at    Offer for sale 60                                                                                              Offered for sale 325 entities;
parastatals for   least 10 companies;    companies;
sale              and offer for sale     Reach point of sale for                                                                                        Completed sale or liquidated 235
companies accounting   20 companies;                                                                                                 entities by end-1999.
for 10 percent of total   Complete sale or
turnover of companies  liquidate at least 15
in program            companies;
Offer for sale a total of
Offer for sale        60 companies
additional 10
parastatals                                              ___   _
Recruit all key ZPA                                                                                           ZPA operational since 1992
staff
Establish Privatization                                                                                       PTF set-up in 1993
Trust Fund (PTF)                                                                                               PTF received shares in Chilanga          O
Cement in 1995
Study options to                                                                                               Study completed; privatization
privatize ZCCM                                                                                                under way
Complete assessment of                                                                                         Initial impact assessment
impact of privatization                                                                                       completed
on specific target groups            . .                                                            _
Adopt and begin implementing
plans to privatize and restructure
ZCCM
Adopt plans to develop Konkola
Deep project on urgent basis in
joint-venture with private sector
in manner resulting in majority
private-sector ownership and
management
Implement agreed redundancy      Sale of ZCCM completed March
plan for ZCCM;                  30, 2000.
Implement the reorganization plan
for ZCCM;                                                         C
Complete transfer of ownership                                   (O  m
and control of remaining core                                     0
ZCCM assets.                                                      oot



G. PARASTATALS MANAGEMENT
ERC                  PIRC                PIRC 11               ESAC                  ERIP                ESAC 11                  PSREP               RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/91)                (6/92)               (6/93)               (3/94)               (7/95)                (8/96)                  (1/99)
Complete studies of                                             Adoption of                                                                                 Zambia Airways liquidated in
Zambia Airways,                                                  acceptable financial                                                                       1994
Post and Telecoms,                                              plan for Zambia
and Zambia Railways                                             Airways                                                                                     Telecoms separated from Post
and commercialized in 1995
Grant autonomy to                                                                                                                     UBZ closed in 1995
all other parastatals
ZIMCO0 to ~be                                                                                                                        ZMCO closed in 1995.
restructured and sub-                                                                                                                 Directorate of State Enterprises
holding companies                                                                                                                     set up under Ministry of Finance
abolished
Establish autonomy    Study long-term                                                                     Complete transfer of        Utilities given authority to set
of key parastatal    regulatory                                                                           ownership and control of    their prices based on agreed
utilities and establish   arrangement for                                                                 remaining core ZCCM        mechanisms
transitional          utilities                                                                           assets.                     Sale of ZCCM completed March
regulatory system,                                                                                                                    30, 2000.
including price
adjustment
mechanismns
H. SOCIAL SECTORS
ERC                  PIRC                PIRC 11               ESAC                  ERIP                ESAC 11                 PSREP               RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/91)                (6/92)               (6/93)               (3/94)               (7/95)
Implementation        Develop improved
schedule for Social    social action program
Action Program        and begin
implementation       __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                          __ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _
Increase budget                                                 Meet minimum         Meet minimum          Maintain a social    Maintain social sector      Overall budget allocations
allocation for                                                  budget and           budget and spending   sector budget of at    budget at 36 %            improved
education                                                       spending targets for  targets for key social   least 35 percent in
key social services    services in 1995    1996                                            Social sector share of budget
in 1994                                                                                    increased from 28 in 1993 to 34
percent in 1996; maintained at
36 % in 1998/99
oo



Expand role of                             Formulate a policy                              Sector strategies adopted
NGOs in social                             on collaboration                                Decentralization of service
services delivery                          with NGOs                                       delivery begun
Decentralize
delivery of health
and education
services
Adopt                                                                                      Water sector policy adopted in
comprehensive                                                                              1994
water sector policy
Prepare an
Education Sector
strategy
Formulate a
national drug
procurement policy
I. SOCIAL SECURITY
ERC                  PIRC                PIRC II               ESAC                  ERIP                ESAC 11                 PSREP               RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/91)                (6/92)               (6/93)               (3/94)               (7/95)                                                                                                   to
Reform Social                                                         New Social Security Act Passed
Security/Pension                                                      by Parliament.
Fund System
Adopt action plan to                                                  Adopted reform strategy by
cover unfunded                                                        NSSRISC based on joint
liabilities of existing                                               Bank/lLO study in 1995
statutory pension
funds                                                                 Draft legislation under
preparation
Repeal 22-years-of-
service compulsory
retirement law and
modify benefit
formulae and early
retirement conditions
Adopt action plan to
improve
administration and
operations of Zambia                                                  Approved Cabinet Memorandum  0o  N
National Provident                                                    on Social Security Reform in    O
Fund                                                                  1995                            oo t



- 53 -
Annex F
Page 1 of 2
Zambia at a glance                                                                611/0
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan      Low-
Zambia    Africa  Income        Development diamond'
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                       9.7      627      3,536                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   330        510      520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      3.2       323     1.642
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                        2.5       2.6       11t7
Labor force (%)                                       2.8       2.6       1,9     GNP                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                             capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  68
Urban population (% of total population)              44         33       30
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      45         50       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               ..        92       68
Child malnutrition (% otchildren under 5)             29         33        36               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                43         43        73
Illiteracy (% otpopulation age 15+)                   22         40       31
Grossprimaryenrollment (%ofschool-agepopulation)      89         78       107           -     Zambia
Male                                                92        85        112                 Low-income group
Female                                              56        71       102
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TiERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999                         __
Economic ratIOs*
GDP (US$billions)                            3,3      4.0       3.2       3.1
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                14.2    10.8       16.3      17.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP           45.6     26.8      26,7      22.3                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  23.2      3.8       a9       -1.1
Gross national savings/GDP                  15.0    -7.1       -3.6      -6.6
Current account balance/G DP                 1.1    -5.6      -17.8    -15.8      Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                        2.8      1.9       2.8       5.2                                 Investment
Total debtlGDP                              91.3   168.0      215.5    206.9      Savings
Total debt service/exports                  22.1     13.6      25.8      38.1
Present value of debtVGP .DP
Present value of debtlexports                  .
Indebtedness
1979-9  1989-99     1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 11       0.2     -1.9       2.4       47             -     Zambia
GNP per capita                     -3.2      1.9     -5.1       2,2       2.6                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services      -31      -6.1      5.0       4.9      11.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999     Growth of investment and GDP (%/)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 16.5    21.2       21.2      24.6     100
Industry                                    46.4    52.5       29.1      24.5      s/
Manufacturing                             20.2     34.4       13.0     12.0       o
Services                                    37.2     26.3      49.7      50.9    -S 5           9         97   98   99
Private consumption                         52.9    82.5       84.9      91.5    -100
General govemment consumption               23.9     13.7      11.2       9.6               -     GDI    ----GDP
Imports of goods and services               36.6    33.8       39.2      40.9 D
(aveflr annualggrowth)e1979-89  1989-99                        1998      1999     Growth of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                  3.6      3.4       1.8      13.7    40T
Industry                                    -1.5    -5.2      -11.3      -4.9    20 -
Manufacturing                              3.1      0.8        1.8       2.82                             
Services                                     3.8      3.1       4.4       5.2   o20                            98   99
Private consumption                          3.4      0.8      -1.3       2.6     4
General government consumption              -3.8    -4.7      -14.8    -15.8
Gross domestic investment                   -3.6      3.3       9.3       8.7   -so
Imports of goods and services               -2.3    -5.6        4.6       1.6             -Exports        0Imports
Gross national product                      -0.2      0.8      -2.9       4.4
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. H data are missing,
the diamond will be incomplete.



- 54 -
Annex F
Page 2 of 2
Zambia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                   10
(% change)                                                                        200
Consumer prices                               9.7   127.7       24.4     26.8    1'50I
ImplicitGDPdeflator                          21.3    80.9       19.6     21.7    10o
Government finance                                                                 50
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 0
Current revenue                                 .    18.6       18.7     17.6             94   95   96   97   98   93
Current budget balance                         ..    -4.4        1.4      2.6             -     GDP deflator  --CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -6.6       -9.8    -10.0
TRADE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Export and import levels (US$ mitl.)
(US$ minlions)
Total exports (fob)                         1,408    1,410      816       755     1.400
Copper                                        ..   1,233       365      372      1.200
Zinc                                         ..       84       155        95      000
Manufactures                                         36        194      188       a00
Total imnports (cif)                         756      901       971       871      600
Food                                         ..       14       108        0       40
Fuel and energy                               ..     103        42      115       2Om
Capital goods                                ..     372        539      523 
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..      92        70        69           93  94  95  96  97  98  99
Import price index (1995=100)                 55       79        87        88                FEaEporls     Itmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    116          81       79
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)                                                                                                            I
Exports of goods and services               1,523    1,493      919       842      0.
Imports of goods and services               1,212    1,281     1,253    1,169    |2         94   95  96  979
Resource balance                             311      212       -334     -327      3
Net income                                  -169    -406        -215     -156     -6
Net current transfers                       -105      -28        -27      -16      10
Current account balance                       37    -222        -576     -499      14 -.....
Financing items (net)                        -146     487       365       518      16
Changes in net reserves                      109    -265        211       -19    -20-
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       191      123        69        50
Conversion rate (DEC. local/US$)              0.8    13.8   1,862.0   2,388.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        3,047    6,709     6,982     6,518
IBRD                                       336      501        42        33                     G AG93
IDA                                          1      253      1,562    1,714               F: 121
Total debt service                           340      206       247       331                                    1.714
IBRD                                        41        0        25        12
IDA                                          0        0        16        16              /
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                      72       221       214        E: 2895s
Official creditors                         305       90        -54       66                                  /
Private creditors                            1       11        -11      -20                                     :1,171
Foreign direct investment                    ..       0       198       163
Portfolio equity                                      ..        .: 25
World Bank program
Commitments                                 11        0        75       213      A - 1RD                    E - Bitateral
Disbursements                               28        4        43       156      B - IDA    D - Other mulblateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        13        0        25        13      C-IMF                      G-Short-temm
Netflows                                    16        4        18       143
Interest payments                           29        0        16        15
Net transfers                              -13        4         2       128
Development Economics                                                                                                6/1/00



- 55 -
Annex G
Page 1 of 4
Pension Reforms
Existing Pension Schemes in Zambia: Coverage, Weaknesses and Reform Areas
1.1  There are approximately six pension systems in Zambia. They include: the Public Service
Pensions Fund (PSPF), Zambia National Provident Fund (ZNPF), Workmen's Compensation Fund
(WCF), the Local Authorities Superannuation Fund (LASF), the Zambia State Insurance Corporation
Pension Scheme, and Mukuba Pension Scheme (see Table 1). In addition to these, some larger banks have
their own pension arrangements (e.g. Bank of Zambia and Barclays Bank), and some private companies
have established pension funds which are managed for them by specialists such as the Life Division of
insurance companies.
1.2  Table 1 summarizes the basic features of pension schemes in Zambia. Clearly, almost all of the
pension schemes in Zambia have been undermined by very low coverage, fundamental flaws in benefit-
design and revenue-collecting mechanisms, excessive administrative costs and an inherent inability to
prevent political interference and manipulation by the government. Almost all of them have also been
facing negative real rates of return on their investments, and suffer from liquidity problems. The harsh
economic climate, increasing uncertainty about the future, increasing unemployment levels, and, a
shortage of information and technological capacity have all contributed to make these schemes financially
insolvent and unsustainable. Adding to the financial insolvency of the schemes-particularly the public
schemes-has also been an uncontrolled government borrowing of funds at subsidized interest rates. As a
result of their financial fragility, these schemes have increasingly failed to fulfil their obligations toward
pensioners.
1.3  To its credit, the Government of Zambia has been trying to establish a unified social security
system for some time now. In fact, as early as the 1980's the Kabwe Commission looked into aspects of
social security. However, progress at the time was slow because of other pressing macroeconomic
priorities. More recently, based on the World Bank /ILO technical assistance (1994), the Government
drafted the National Pension Scheme Act of 1996 (NAPSA 1996). The National Pension Scheme Act of
1996 promises a solidarity based partially funded defined benefit (DB) pension system, and is certainly a
move in the right direction for Zambia. However, there are areas where the design and details would need
substantial improvement if the goal of a national pension system is to materialize effectively. In addition
to NAPSA 1996, three other acts were drafted and passed during the same year: the Pension Scheme
Regulation Act of 1996 (PSRA 1996), the Public Sector Pensions Act of 1996 (PSPA 1996), and the
Local Superannuation Amendment Act of 1996 (LASA 1996). PSRA 1996 establishes a regulatory
framework for all pension schemes in Zambia except the new National Pension Scheme. This Act
contains provisions for the establishment of a registrar and a supervisory authority to register and de-
register pension funds. The PSPA 1996 extends coverage to all public servants by including teachers and
the armed forces in its scope of coverage. Further, it eliminates the early retirement option after 20 years
of service. The LASA 1996 eliminates the requirement to retire after 22 years of service. These legislative
acts have certainly been steps in the right direction toward creating a comprehensive pension system in
Zambia as well as in improving the financial viability of some of the existing schemes.
1.4  Clearly, however, there is a great deal more that needs to be achieved by means of policy reform,
especially in making these schemes financially viable. Within the broader goal of establishing a credible
and coherent pensions system, the road ahead should involve one of continuing the reform process
already underway. The last column of Table 1 defines a set of measures and activities that would
constitute the wider pension reform agenda in the country. Table 2 summarizes proposed short, medium
and long-term policy measures.



Table 1: Zambia-Pension Schemes, Coverage, Weaknesses and Reform Areas
Scheme Type       Design     Coverage/               Weaknesses               Interventions to Date                 Reform Gaps / Tasks Ahead
Sector/
Membership
1. Statutory
2.2 Zambian       Funded DC   Private       *   Evasion and non compliance by   *   NAPSA 1996        *   Reduce administrative costs: Help retrenchment of workers at
National                  sector            employers and employees            enacted on the        the ZNPF since staff-related costs constitute the bulk of
Provident                 180,000       *   No scope for redistribution        basis of ILO/          administrative costs.
Fund                                        within this system, i.e. benefits  World Bank        *   Establish transparent governance structure and investment
(ZNPF)                    Non-CSPF          not related to needs               recommendations        policy for NPS.
Civil         *   Deficiencies in fund              .NAPSA provides  *   Address deficiencies in the design of NPS including: (a) the
Servants          management: contribution           for the conversion    huge implicit and explicit pension liabilities that it implies;
30,000            ceiling not regularly adjusted for  of the ZNPF into     (b) its equity and redistribution implications; (c) Implications
inflation; political interference in  National Pension   of AIDS for stream of contributions and benefits; (d) survivor
Non-LASF          fund management                    Scheme (NPS).         benefits; and (d) the feasibility of the proposed wage
Local Govt.   *   Data problems: lack of good                              indexation mechanisms
5,000             computerized data management                         *   Improve upon the design of the NPS in light of such studies.
system; difficulty in benefit                        *   Develop mechanisms for dealing with the data management
Parastatal        processing                                               problems that the ZNPF is currently facing before it is
Employees    *   High administrative costs (ratio                          converted into the NPS.
140,000          of administrative cost to                             *   Complement staff retrenchment with training and upgrading
investment income is about                               of skills for the staff members staying with NPS
Total             250%)                                                *   Decentralize the NPS, and ensure provincial access to
355,000                                                                    pension services
1.2. Public      Funded DB                  *   Under-funded since it is a     *   Actuarial         *   Develop proposals for the govemment to clear its outstanding
Service Pension               Civil             PAYG system                        evaluation             liabilities
Fund (PSPF)                   Servants      *   Benefits are too high in relation  completed by       *   Separate out employment related liabilities from pension
N/A              to contributions and/or are         Hymans and            liabilities
distorted                          Robertson and     *   Institute, if possible, measures to counteract Article 124 of
Huge outstanding govt.             Co., a South          the Constitution
Armed            liabilities (on the order of K67    Africa based      *   Institute parametric reforms
Forces            billion only over 1991-99)         actuarial firm    *   Set up an autonomous MIS for the pension fund.
N/A           *   Other administrative and                             *   Decentralize the pension disbursement services to provincial
logistical problems such as                              and district levels.
7eachers          computing facilities
N/A           *   Lacks portability, i.e.
transferability of the benefits
when one changes jobs
Total                                                                                                                              4   1
.   100,000                                                                                                                            <D _
o Q



1.3. Local       PAYG DB   Local Govt.   *   Non-compliance by Govemment  *   None                  *   Contribution rates, retirement rules, and commutation factor
Authorities                   Employees        (more than K 2.1 billion                                 and amounts to be revised
Superannuation                22,000           contribution in arrears)                             .   Proposals for the govemment to clear its outstanding
Fund (LASF)                                *   Low investment income                                    liabilities to be worked out
a   Seriously under-funded due to                       *   Mechanisms for improving management and reducing
NHA,             low contributions and rising                             administrative costs yet to be proposed and implemented (e.g.
ZESCO            expenditures                                             contracting out of management to the private sector)
N/A
1.4. Workers'    Employers'  Factory/      *   Political interference with regard  *   None         *   Ways to reduce political interference in fund management yet
Compensation     contributio   manufacturi     to fund management                                       to be ensured
Fund (WCF)       n based on   ng workers    *   Negative real returns on                            *   Exact modalities for merger between the WCF and PCF yet
Industry    N/A              investment                                               to be worked out
accident                  *   High administrative expenditure
(about 60% of contribution
income)
1.5.             Levy on      Miners       *   Very low entitlement (based on    *   None           *   Maximum wage (which would allow for higher benefits) yet
Pneumoconiosis   Mines        1,150            wage of K 200).                                          to be revised
Compensation                               *   High administrative costs, and                       .   Exact modalities for merger between the WCF and PCF yet
Fund (PCF)                    Total,           postal commission (of 10%) on                            to be worked out
Statutory        the already low benefits
478,150
I. Occupational
2.1 Zambia State   DB and DC               *   Prescribed investment decisions   *   None           *   Autonomy in fund management yet to be achieved
Insurance                     Parastatal       by the govemment                                     *   Improved compliance and inflation adjusted benefits yet to be
Corporation                   Employees    *   Low levels of real pension                               achieved
(ZSIC)                        120,000           payments both due to lack of                        *   Service standards and regulations for occupational pension
compliance and inflation                                schemes yet to be developed and legislated by the govt.
*   lack of regulation and                              *   Mechanisms for improving management and administrative
Private          supervision of these schemes by                          efficiency yet to be proposed and implemented
60,000           the government
*   lack of qualified management
personnel.
2.2 MUKUBA                                 *   Administrative expenses of     *   None              *   It is not clear what will happen to this scheme if privatization
ZCCM             ZCCM high by international                               of ZCCM goes ahead as planned.
18,000           standards (27% of contribution
income); otherwise a well-run
and actuarially sound pension
scheme
._________  Occup., Total 78,000                           ..                         .'
Grand, Total 565,000                         _          __   . .  .                                            .                 o _ _
Sources: (1) ILO/ World Bank Mission Report, 1994; (2) " Reforming Pensions in Zambia", World Bank Staff Working Paper # 1716, January 1997.                     .  2



Table 2: Zambia-A Summary of Proposed Pension Reform Measures under FSC and Beyond
Scheme Type                Short-term Measures(to be completed under FSC)               Possible Medium-term Measures (to be completed in the next 2-3 years)
I. Statutory
1.1. Zambian National   *   Propose to move to a multi-pillar NPS; hold consultations with  *   Implement the amended NAPSA/ revised NPS.
Provident Fund (ZNPF)      different constituents on the need for such a change; submit the  *   Complement staff retrenchment at the ZNPF with training and upgrading of
improved NAPSA 1996 to the parliament for amendment.           skills for the remaining staff
*   Help reduce administrative costs (i.e. help the staff retrenchment   *   Decentralize the NPS, and ensure provincial access to pension services
process) under ZNPF
*   Put in place transparent governance structure and investment
policy for NPS.
*   Strengthen the data and information management capacity of the
ZNPF before it is converted into the NPS (to be done through
PSCAP)
1.2. Public Service   *   Complete the actuarial study on PSPF (done)                 *   Decentralize the pension services to provincial and district levels.
Pension Fund (PSPF)    *   Help work out proposals for the government to clear its     *   Help set up an autonomous MIS for the Fund
outstanding liabilities
*   Separate out employment related liabilities from pension liabilities
*   Propose and implement short-term measures (recommended by the
actuarial study) that would help improve the financial viability of
the fund
1.3. Local Authorities    *   None                                                    *   Work out proposals for the government to clear its outstanding liabilities      .
Superannuation Fund                                                                    *   Propose and implement mechanisms for improving management and investment
(LASF)                                                                                     policy, as well as reducing administrative costs
1.4. Workers'         *   None                                                        *   Institute a mechanism to reduce political interference in fund management
Compensation Fund                                                                     *   Determine exact modalities for merger between the WCF and PCF
(WCF)
1.5. Pneumoconiosis   *   None                                                        *   Provide for a mechanism to regularly revise maximum monthly wage (which
Compensation Fund                                                                          would allow for higher benefits)
(PCF)                                                                                 *   Determine exact modalities for merger between the WCF and PCF
II. Occupational
2.1 Zambia State       *   None                                                       *   Help set up an autonomous fund management committee
Insurance Corporation                                                                  *   Develop and legislate service standards and regulations for occupational pension
(ZSIC)                                                                                     schemes.
*   Propose and help implement mechanisms for improving management and
administrative efficiency
2.2 MUKUBA             *   None
Sources: World Bank staff analysis
Ou4



Zambia: Matrix of Policy Agreements under Fiscal Sustainability Credit (FSC)
AREAS AND OBJECTIVES                PROGRESS TO DATE                     PROPOSED REFORM MEASURES UNDER FSC
A. QUASI-FISCAL DEFICIT
A.1 DEFICITS OF                   *  Privatization of ZCCM completed   ZCCM
PARASTATALS                          (March 2000)                    *  Agreement by all parties involved on the amount of ZCCM debt
Reduce the deficits of state-owned                                       and cross-debt to be settled, including an action plan to speedily
enterprises that have adverse impact                                     clear arrears;
on the Government budget by: i)                                      *  Initial implementation of the above action plan.
unbundling and privatizing ZESCO;
ii) offering for sale a majority                                     ZESCO
controlling interest in the package of                               *  Increase retail tariffs according to revenue requirement agreed
the Indeni refinery, TAZAMA       *  Electricity tariffs increased by    with IDA and the approved Automatic Tariff Adjustment Formula;
pipeline and Ndola terminal to a     25% in April 2000.              *  Implement further measures to reduce ZESCO's operating costs
strategic partner or group of partners   *  GRZ committed to unbundling and  such as restrictions on salary increase, divestiture of non-core
that will be required to operate these  privatization of ZESCO; Cabinet  activities, and restructuring of the current short-term borrowings
assets in accordance with market     directed the Zambia Privatization  into medium-term loansg
principles; iii) liberalizing imports and  Agency (ZPA) to prepare a plan    *  Improve billing and revenue collection;
retail prices of petroleum products; iv)  for ZESCO's privatization  *  Conduct studies to investigate options for privatization and to
limiting the role of ZNOC to manage  (October 1999).                    review the legislative and regulatory framework to establish an
and control strategic reserves of  *  Agreement reached among           enabling environment for private sector participation. Adopt a
petroleum products (leaving all      MOFED, ZESCO, CEC on the           suitable option and have it approved by the Cabinet for
commercial operations to oil         amount of debt and cross-debt      implementation.
marketing companies); and v) private  to be settled, including an
concessioning of Zambia Railways.    action plan to speedily clear the
arrears; and
*  Agreement between ZESCO and
ERB reached on specific
modalities of the Automatic Tariff
Adjustment Formula.
*  Clearance of ZNOC arrears to    ZNOC
TAZAMA.                        *  Offer for sale a majority controlling interest in the refinery,
pipeline and terminal, as a package, to a strategic partner or group



of partners. Meanwhile, any work on rebuilding the refinery
and/or other facilities will be deferred until the new owner takes
possession of the assets;
* Establish a robust payment mechanism for TAZAMA, to ensure
that it is remunerated in full and in a timely manner for its
services. The mechanism could also include a procedure whereby
TAZAMA would be remunerated with products which it could
dispose of for its own account;
* Fully liberalize imports (so that all oil marketing companies could
import petroleum products directly) and retail prices of petroleum
products; and
* Limit the role of ZNOC to manage and control strategic reserves
of petroleum products equal to thirty days of average national use.
Zambia Railways
*  Cabinet approved concessioning of *  Establish an autonomous regulatory body to enforce safety and
Zambia Railways                    environment-related regulations;
*  Agree with IDA to increase Private  *  Map out strategies for restructuring/winding up of the (residual)
Sector Participation in ZR through  ZR after concessioning has become operational.
private concessioning of
infrastructure and selling/leasing
of locomotives and rolling stock;
*  Staff rationalization program at
ZR.
A.2 BANK OF ZAMBIA                                                   Reduce Risk of Contingent Liabilities
DEFICIT: Reduce the risk of new   *  Submission to the Cabinet's     *  Submit to Parliament proposed amendments to the Banking
contingent or actual liabilities     Legislation Committee the          and Financial Services Act (1994) to enhance the BOZ's
developing on the books of the Bank  amendments to the Banking and
of Zambia, and lower the             Financial Services Act (1994) to   p
government's cost of domestic debt   enhance the BOZ's power to                    . M     p  in
finance.            sancton, take contrl of, and de-      Make provision In all future budgets to indemnify the Bank   
finance,                             sanction, take control of, and de-
of Zambia for any probable loss on new guarantees that will  o :
licence banks, and to ensure the 
Government will make provision     be called upon.
in all future budgets to indemnify



the Bank of Zambia for any     Lower Government's Cost of Domestic Debt Finance
probable loss on new guarantees    *  Adopt a cash management method, agreed upon by BOZ and
that will be called upon.          MOFED, to minimize the arbitrage opportunity presently
created by ministries' accounts at cormmercial banks;
* Sulbmission of a plan by BOZ and
MOPED to alter cash management  *  Create, within MOFED, a unified and integrated database for
practices in relation to mrinisterial  recording and monitoring external and domestic debt,
so as to mninimize the arbitrage  including timely debt service; and
opportunity that presently exists.
o  Improve the management of liquidity by BOZ to reduce both
the levels and the volatility of interest rates on Government
debt.
A.3 PENSION REFORMS: Help                                            Public Service Pensions Fund (PSPF)
set up a financially viable, efficient    *  Actuarial evaluation completed  *  Clear the arrears to the PSPF;
National Pension Scheme (NPS), and   for Public Service Pensions Fund
improve the financial position of the  by Hymans and Robertson and   *  Phase down the PSPF over the long-term, while consolidating and
Public Service Pensions Fund         Co., a South Africa based actuarial  improving NPS (below), which has become effective as of
firn (November 1999).              February 1, 2000, to make it fair and cost-effective and to allow
portability (i.e. compatibility) with the private sector.
*  Allocation of K26 billion in the
2000 budget to stem further
financial losses to the PSPF;  National Pension Scheme (NPS)
*  Agree with IDA on the number of NAPSA staff to be retrenched
and the cost thereof, based on the established criteria;
*  Creation of a mandatory National   *  Issue NAPSA statutory instruments in the official Gazette to
Pension Scheme (NPS) in 1996       reflect parameters as contained in proposed regulations with
that would harmonize all the      respect to benefit formulas, minimum pension guarantee, required
existing plans. The NPS Act 1996  length of service, and accrual rate;
has been made effective February
1, 2000, and the National Pension
Scheme Authority (NAPSA) has    *  Submit to IDA evidence on staff retrenchment, including an audit  
been.put inchargeof running the  satisfactory to the Association and carnied out by an independent
agency acceptable to the Association, showing that NAPSA had  o 0e
day-to-day operations of the      implemented its Redundancy Plan;
scheme;



* Agreed with IDA on staff       *  Establish transparent governance structure and prudential
retrenchment plans at NAPSA,     investment guidelines for NAPSA; publish in the official Gazette
including clear and transparent  prudential investment guidelines for NAPSA;
retrenchment criteria prepared by
the management of NAPSA;      *  Complete an actuarial evaluation of NPS to determine (i) the
viability of a second-pillar component and (ii) the relative size of
*  Issued NAPSA statutory            contributions that constitute individual accounts;
instruments to reflect parameters
(as agreed with IDA) as contained   *  Commence a study on insurance markets and annuities in Zambia
in the proposed regulations with  and other selected countries.;
respect to contribution rates,
including contribution ceiling and   *  Strengthen the voluntary/ occupational pension schemes through
floor; and                        improving governance, transparency and autonomy in fund
management; and
*  Submitted to IDA draft NAPSA
statutory instruments concerning    *  Move the NPS towards a multi-pillar system and rely on three
benefit formulas, minimum         pillars to produce an adequate income and provide about 60-70%
pension guarantee, required length  replacement rates of pre-retirement salaries for a full career
of service, and accrual rate, as  worker.
submitted by the Ministry of Labor
and Social Security to the Ministry
of Legal Affairs.
B. FISCAL MANAGEMENT
Improve budget implementation                                      Improve Predictability of Public Spending
policies and mechanisms to improve                                 *  Extend the time-period covered by each cash release from the
the predictability, accountability, and                                present one month to three months by preparing a quarterly cash
transparency of public spending. Also                                  allocation pan;
to reduce the government's costs of                                *  This cash allocation plan, which will amount to 80 percent of the
purchasing goods and services,                                         Yellow Book allocation for the corresponding three months, will    It
improve the efficiency of government                                   be subdivided into three monthly cash releases. MOFED will
operations, and channel more                                          inform every spending agency of their projected cash allocation so
resources into economically and
.      ~~~~coy,



socially important sectors and                                           to allow spending agencies to start planning their activities;
ministries.
*  MOFED will issue a set of rules, as part of the quarterly cash
allocation plan above, indicating how, if necessary, reductions in
cash allocations are to be implemented. In addition, budget
allocations to the social sector ministries will be protected at at
least 36 percent, and domestically-financed capital expenditures of
the economic sector ministries at least 12 percent, of the
discretionary budget;
* Implement a mid-year budget review.
Improve Accountability
*  The Finance Act has been revised   *  MOFED to send the revised Finance Act (which strengthens
to include appropriate sanctions   sanctions and penalties to failing controlling officers) to Cabinet
and penalties for controlling      for approval, and subsequently to Parliament;
officers who fail to fulfill their
responsibilities.               *  MOFED to cut back quarterly cash allocations to over-committed
ministries and redistribute saved funds to ministries operating
within their commitment ceilings. MOFED to impose strict
controls on expenditure commitments, and by strictly enforcing
the existing rule by which total outstanding expenditure
commitments are limited to 10 percent of the annual warrant;
*  Controlling officers of line ministries to submit regular monthly
reports on total outstanding commitments (both new and ongoing)
and that these reports be accurate, comprehensive, and submitted
on a timely basis (within 15 days after the end of each month).
Non-compliance with this rule will result in MOPED withholding
of monthly cash releases;
mq >
*  The Commitment Monitoring Unit (CMU) to monitor over-    
commitments carefully and to prepare monthly reports
__ summarizing the situation of commitments, cash outlays, and      :



payment arrears and provide these to MOFED managers. For
every quarter, these reports will be distributed more widely,
including to ministries. For ministries that exceed commitment
limits or accumulate new expenditure arrears, quarterly reports
will attach the obligatory written explanations by controlling
officers of ministries for the reasons; and
* Controlling officers to be held personally accountable to enforce
the new financial regulations, which will specify clearly the
sanctions and penalties to these officers and delegated officials
who fail to fulfill their responsibilities.
Improve Budget Transparency and Governance
* MoFED to publish quarterly reports, which would include a
comparison between actual cash releases by ministry (budget
head) and major expenditure category (budget subhead) with the
quarterly cash allocation plan and with original budget allocations;
*  Government financial statistics to be strengthened as an instrument
for fiscal analysis. Information about the major state-owned
enterprises, including their income statements, would be published
in the annual Economic Report issued by MOFED. In addition,
the budget (Yellow Book) would include two summary fiscal
tables. The monthly Macroeconomic Indicators report will
include tables showing projected level and composition of central
government debt;
*  The office of the auditor-general (AG) to be equipped with
adequate financial resources to carry out audits of government
accounts within a year of the end of the year. The AG will be
called upon to investigate and report to parliament on spending
agencies that continue to make over-commitments.
o E



- 65 -
Annex I
Page 1 of 1
Zambia: Fiscal Sustainability Credit
Perfornance Indicators
A. DEFICITS OF STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISES
A.1. ZESCO
* Clearance of arrears.
* Completion of cost reduction measures. Tariff increases according to criteria set out.
A.2. ZNOC
* Clearance of arrears to TAZAMA and other public entities.
* Offering for sale a majority controlling interest in the package of the Indeni refinery,
TAZAMA pipeline and Ndola terminal to a strategic partner or group of partners.
* Retail prices of petroleum products significantly lowered.
* Role of ZNOC limited to manage and control strategic reserves of petroleum products
(leaving all commercial operations to oil marketing companies).
A.3. Zambia Railways
* Improved short-term cost recovery (or reduced financial losses).
3 Improved capital maintenance and provision of better services.
B. BANK OF ZAMBIA
* Reduction in BOZ deficit in relation to GDP. Reduction in the scale of intra-month
volatility in the overnight rate.
* Improvement in the cash management method to minimize the arbitrage opportunity
presently created by ministries' accounts at commercial banks.
C. PENSION REFORMS
C.1 National Pension Scheme (NPS)
* First pillar of NPS set up and operational;
* Prudential investment guidelines issued and implemented for NAPSA; and
* Staff retrenchment at NAPSA carried out satisfactorily, and audit completed.
D. FISCAL MANAGEMENT
* Satisfactory replacement of the current ad-hoc budget management system by rule-based
decisions. The quarterly cash allocation system will replace the current ad-hoc monthly
cash releases;
* Introduction of a formal mid-year review;
* Over-commitments of expenditures will be closely monitored and penalized;
* The shares of social and economic ministries in the budget will be protected during the
course of budget implementation; and
* Budget implementation will be made transparent by publication of timely and more
accurate information on public spending.



- 66 -
Annex J
Page I of 18
31s May, 2000
Mr. Callisto Madavo
Vice President, Africa Region
The World Bank
Washington, DC
USA
Dear Mr. Madavo,
RE: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY CREDIT (FSC)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.  I am writing to request, on behalf of the Govermnent of Zambia, a Credit of $140
million equivalent from the International Development Association (IDA) in support of our
structural adjustment programme. This Credit, the Fiscal Sustainability Credit (FSC) aims at
helping Zambia sustain its fiscal progress achieved in recent years by: (i) expanding fiscal
adjustment beyond the central government to other public sector entities, including state-
owned enterprises, pension funds, and the Bank of Zambia; and (ii) reestablishing fiscal
discipline through improvement in the predictability, accountability, and transparency of
public spending.
2.   Past Achievements: The Zambian Government that took office in 1991 launched a
programme of economic stabilisation and liberalisation designed to reverse the country's
economic decline and put it on the path of sustainable growth. Prices were decontrolled and
subsidies eliminated, inflation was brought down significantly, market forces have been
allowed to determine the exchange and interest rates, quantitative restrictions on imports were
eliminated; and the tariff structure was compressed and simplified. Parastatal monopolies
have ended, crop marketing was liberalized, and a far-reaching privatisation programme has
made good progress. The central government budget deficit (after grants and debt
rescheduling, cash basis) declined from 7 percent of GDP in 1991 to 2.3 percent in 1997,
although it rose again to about 4 percent in 1998-1999. The privatisation of non-mining public
enterprises has continued at a rapid pace, with over 80 percent of companies/units privatized
by December 1999 out of a total portfolio of 282.
3.  While the government has been quite successful in implementing this programme, the
economy has responded slowly, with average annual growth of less than 1 percent in 1994-
1998 compared to 3 percent growth of the population. Furthermore, macroeconomic stability
has not been fully achieved. While inflation has declined from close to 200 percent in 1992-
1993 to about 20 percent by 1997, it has remained between 20 and 30 percent since then. The
decline in GDP in 1998 after growth had resumed in 1996 and 1997 shows that Zambia has
not yet attained sustained economic growth.



- 67 -
Annex J
Page 2 of 18
4.  Following the successful privatisation of ZCCM in March 2000, the Government is
redoubling its efforts, with support from the World Bank and the IMF, to attain a sustainable
growth path and fight widespread poverty. In May 2000, the Government of Zambia
completed the discussions on the first review of the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
(PRGF) with the International Monetary Fund (IMF), including progress in the
implementation of the outstanding prior actions. At the same time, it also discussed with
World Bank and IMF staff its interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and the debt
sustainability analysis that will be included in a preliminary Highly Indebted Poor Countries
(HIPC) Initiative document. As part of the interim PRSP, a matrix of policy reforms covering
the 2000-2002 period has been formulated in collaboration with the staffs of the World Bank
and the IMF and will be considered for adoption by the Cabinet.
5.  The main macroeconomic objectives for the period 2000-2002 are to lay the basis for
sustained economic growth of 4-5 percent per year, further reduction in inflation and a
strengthening of the external payments position. The ultimate objective of these policies is to
reduce the incidence of poverty in Zambia from the current estimate of 70 percent to 50
percent by the year 2004. During this period, the Government will continue with its
stabilisation efforts through prudent fiscal and monetary policies, including efforts to achieve
a marked reduction in the overall public sector deficit (quasi-fiscal deficit). These policies
will be complemented by structural and institutional reforms, particularly in the areas of state-
owned enterprises, pension, fiscal management, public service, and the banking sector. Other
reform measures will include improving the framework for provision of growth-enabling
infrastructure, rural development, and expanding targeted poverty alleviation programs.
II. RECENT ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENTS
6.    Following two successive years of economic growth in 1996 and 1997, the economy
slowed down in 1998 due to a combination of internal and external shocks. A 25 percent drop
in the copper price, combined with operational and financial problems at the copper
parastatal, Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM) -until March 31, 2000, the largest
public sector company in Zambia-as well as delays in ZCCM' s privatisation substantially
reduced copper production and export revenues. Adverse weather conditions also contributed
to a reduction in agricultural output, especially maize production. As a result, in 1998 GDP
declined by 2 percent in real terms. The fall in foreign exchange earnings was further
exacerbated by a reduction in balance of payments support, resulting in a depreciation of the
Kwacha by over 60 percent during the year. The current account deficit (after transfers)
widened to about 11 percent of GDP, while official foreign exchange reserves fell from two
months of imports at end-1997 to less than two weeks of imports by end-1998. Inflation rose
to about 30 percent by year end, reflecting in part the pass-through effects of the Kwacha
depreciation. Although the government exercised fiscal restraint on recurrent expenditures,
capital expenditures increased at a time when balance of payments support declined. The
central government budget deficit (on a cash basis, after grants) increased from 2.0 percent of
GDP in 1997 to 4.4 percent of GDP in 1998.



- 68 -
Annex J
Page 3 of 18
7.  The economy recovered in 1999, aided by good weather and a relatively stable
exchange rate. Nevertheless, GDP grew by only 2.4 percent because of the continuing
adverse effects of the delays in ZCCM privatisation. Increased production of maize, rice,
mixed beans, and cash crops (seed cotton and soybeans) contributed to a 13.7% percent
growth in the agricultural output. Overall economic growth would have been higher if not for
the decline in mining output (25 percent) and modest growth in the manufacturing sector (3
percent), where the sources of growth were mainly in food, beverages and tobacco. Despite a
fall in foreign exchange earnings due to copper exports and to lower than expected balance of
payments support, the Government managed to pursue stringent fiscal and monetary policies.
This policy framework, combined with a relatively stable exchange rate (compared to 1998),
contributed to a decline in the end-of-period inflation, from 31 percent in 1998 to about 21
percent in 1999.
8.  Despite a decline in the central government revenues caused mainly by factors related
to the delay in ZCCM privatisation, the Government pursued a tight fiscal policy. In 1999,
the central government budget deficit (on a cash basis, after grants) declined slightly to 4.0
percent of GDP. At the same time, total tax revenue fell from 18.1 percent of GDP in 1998 to
about 17.1 percent of GDP, due in large part to the financial difficulties that ZCCM and its
suppliers experienced in meeting their tax obligations. The shortfall in revenues was balanced
by sharp cuts in expenditures: current expenditures fell from 17.3 percent of GDP in 1998 to
15.0 percent of GDP in 1999. This tight fiscal policy was accompanied by a stringent
monetary policy, as money and quasi-money grew at the same pace as nominal GDP. On the
external side, tightened imports compensated for the drop in export earnings. As a result, the
current account deficit ( after transfers) declined from 11 percent of GDP in 1998 to about 9
percent in 1999. . Exports continued to decline in 1999, but the rate of decline slowed down -
from 12.9 percent in 1998 to only 4.6 percent in 1999.
9.  Despite these considerable economic hardships, progress continued on a number of
policy fronts. In March 1999, the Government agreed on a new Policy Framework Paper with
the Bank and the IMF, and the IMF approved a new three-year Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF) (now Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF)) program.
In April, the Govermment concluded a debt rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club.
Following a successful Consultative Group Meeting in late May 1999, and subject to
continuing progress on economic and governance issues, several bilateral donors either
resumed balance of payment support or indicated a willingness to do so. Progress on the
Public Service Reform Program (PSRP) continued, and the Bank released the second tranche
of the PSREP in early April 2000. Nonetheless, in the last half of 1999, the delay in the
privatisation of ZCCM and consequent delays in related balance of payments support
increased the vulnerability of the economic reform program and adversely affected the
Government's ability to meet some of the PRGF's targets, particularly on the external side.
As mentioned earlier, in May 2000, the Government reached a preliminary agreement with
the Fund on a new annual program under the PRGF.



- 69 -
Annex J
Page 4 of 18
III. POLICY OBJECTIVES FOR 2000-2002
10. The Government medium term programme aims at achieving high and sustained growth
and poverty reduction by maintaining macroeconomic stability and completing the unfinished
agenda of structural reforms. These objectives are consistent with the Government's long term
vision of the Zambian economy as one with a rapidly growing private sector operating in a
competitive and stable economic environment, with the public sector focusing on the
provision of social and economic infrastructure and support services as well as on
enforcement of laws and regulations. To this end, the Government plans to take measures in
three areas: (1) stabilisation measures aimed at establishing and maintaining internal and
external balance; (2) structural adjustment measures to strengthen the basis for a more
diversified, market based, and outward oriented economy; and (3) social sector policies aimed
at poverty reduction and human resource development.
11. The policy targets for the 2000-2002 period are to achieve economic growth of 4-5%
per year while reducing the rate of inflation from the annual average of 26.8 percent in 1999
to about 22% in 2000 and further down to about 8 % by 2002'. . Among others, this will
require a marked reduction in the public sector's quasi-fiscal deficit, including the deficit of
public enterprises, pension funds, and the Bank of Zambia as mentioned below. A key fiscal
target for 2000-2002 is to generate Central Government domestic budget surpluses of some
1.3 percent of GDP by 2002. This would create the necessary room for the expansion of
private sector activity and will also allow Zambia to reduce over the medium-term its
dependence on external assistance as a source of budget financing. The principal key to
achieving fiscal objectives will lie in the strengthening of tax administration and stricter
controls over public expenditures, in particular commitments and domestic arrears.
12. To bolster our ability to respond to external shocks, gross official reserves will increase
to 1.5 months import cover in 2000 and rise further to 2.2 months import cover by 2001 (2.7
months by 2002). The external current account deficit after grants is expected to improve
from 9 percent of GDP in 1999 to below 7 percent of GDP in 2000-2002, as increases in
imports of capital goods will be offset by growth in metal exports by the privatized copper
industry. . Government's role will be centered on the provision of infrastructure, the
maintenance of a favourable policy environment for achieving high growth rates in mining,
agriculture, tourism and manufacturing, and the more effective delivery of social and other
support services.
13.  The growth projections over the 2000-2002 period are based on an annual increase in
copper production of 6 percent, spillover effects of this to other sectors, mainly trade and
manufacturing (both 4-5 percent), supported by further privatisation in manufacturing, and
continued, but slower, agricultural output growth of some 6-7 percent. These growth
prospects are underpinned by an expected increase in gross investment, from around 15
percent of GDP in 1998 to some 23 percent in 2002. The increase is to come mainly from
private investment in the mining sector now that the main assets of ZCCM have been
privatized, but also in exports of agricultural commodities, manufacturing and tourism.
' The slow programmed reduction in inflation in 2000 is due to the effects of increased oil and electricity prices



- 70 -
Annex J
Page 5 of 18
Following the privatisation, private investment is expected to rise from 6.7 percent of GDP in
1998 to 14.1 percent of GDP by 2002. Most of the increase in investment is expected to be
financed by the inflow of foreign private capital and rising private domestic savings.
14. The Government is committed to maintaining the liberal trade and exchange regime,
and to continuing trade liberalisation including in the context of the Cross-Border Initiative
(CBI). Over the medium term, it aims to reduce the average import tax to 10 percent. To this
effect, the maximum rate will be reduced from 25 to 20 percent in 2001. In addition, the
Government plans a further streamlining of the investment promotion process, including
improved access to infrastructure services.
15. Zambia's heavy external public debt burden will require continued reliance on debt
relief and concessional balance of payments assistance. We seek to reach the decision point
for assistance under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative as soon as
possible, because even with the full use of all traditional debt relief mechanisms, the country
would still face an unsustainable level of external debt over the medium term. The
Government recognizes that continued assistance from Paris Club creditors and the provision
of assistance under the HIPC Initiative will depend on a strong track record under IMF and
World Bank-supported programmes in the coming years.
IV. REDUCING THE QUASI-FISCAL DEFICIT
16. The Government is fully aware that the high overall public sector deficit (quasi-fiscal
deficit) has been one of the main reasons why the Zambian economy has failed to achieve
economic growth and macro stability, despite a marked reduction in the Central Government
budget deficit. In 1997, over two-thirds of this deficit was caused by non-central government
entities such as public enterprises, pension funds and BOZ. To achieve a lasting effect on the
overall public sector deficit, the Government will implement a number of measures designed
to improve the financial situation of these entities. At the same time, it will seek to reestablish
fiscal discipline through measures to improve the predictability, accountability, and
transparency of public spending. This section describes our intentions to reduce the overall
public sector deficit.
Publicly-Owned Enterprises
17. Privatisation is fundamental to Zambia's Adjustment Programme. With the successful
completion of the ZCCM privatisation on March 31, 2000, the Government's privatisation
program has achieved one of its major objectives. Nevertheless, the Government will
continue and even accelerate implementation of the privatisation program by divesting most
of the remaining state owned enterprises. An immediate major focus will be a number of key
utilities, such as the Electricity Supply Company (ZESCO) and the Zambian Railways. In
addition, we intend to restructure the petroleum sector in order to enhance efficiency and
Government revenues, increase potential exports, and reduce the cost to the consumers. To



- 71 -
Annex J
Page 6 of 18
prepare for their successful privatisation by making these enterprises more attractive to
private investors, the Government will implement a series of detailed measures, including
settlement of debts, increases/liberalisation of tariffs and prices charged by these enterprises,
staff rationalisation, and changes in the regulatory frameworks where necessary.
18.  Concerning the ZCCM's liabilities, the Government has reached an agreement with all
parties on the amount of ZCCM debt and cross-debt to be settled and has begun to implement
an action plan to speedily clear these arrears.
19. For ZESCO, an agreement has been reached among Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development (MOFED), ZESCO, CEC on the amount of debt and cross-debt to be settled,
including an action plan to clear the arrears in an orderly manner. In order to improve the
financial viability of ZESCO, we have increased electricity tariffs by 25% effective April
2000. In the future, we plan to adjust retail tariffs according to a revenue requirement agreed
with IDA and the approved Automatic Tariff Adjustment Formula. An agreement has been
reached between ZESCO and the Electricity Regulatory Board (ERB) on the specific
modalities of the operation of this formula. In addition, we intend to implement the following
measures:
*  Take further measures to reduce ZESCO's operating costs. ZESCO's cost reduction
measures have so far mainly focused on: (i) outsourcing of non-core activities, (ii) tighter
control of telephone and transport and fuel expenditures, and (iii) effective freezing of
new recruitment. New measures over the next twelve months will include: (a) restrictions
on salary increase, (b) divestiture of residential properties, and (c) restructuring of the
current short-term borrowings into medium-term loans;
*  Improve billing and revenue collection;
* The Government is committed to a reduction of a majority of its shareholding in ZESCO.
To that end, we will conduct studies to investigate options for privatisation and to review
the legislative and regulatory framework to establish an enabling environment for private
sector participation. We will, in consultation with IDA, adopt a suitable privatisation
option for implementation.
20. For the petroleum sector, we confirm that Zambia National Oil Company (ZNOC) has
no outstanding debt or cross-debt to be settled with the Government or with TAZAMA.
Furthermore, to improve efficiency of the petroleum sector, the Government will offer for sale
a majority controlling interest in the refinery, pipeline and terminal, as a package, to a
strategic partner or group of partners. The winning partner, on taking possession of the
controlling interest, will determine whether the pipeline will be operated in crude mode or in
product mode. Meanwhile, any work on rebuilding the refinery and/or other facilities will be
deferred until the new owner takes possession of the assets. To ensure operational efficiency,
bidders will be required to agree to operate the assets on a basis that is compatible with
market principles (e.g. refined products will be available, from the refinery or from the



- 72 -
Annex J
Page 7 of 18
pipeline as the case may be, on an open and equal basis to any bill-paying public or private
entity). We will implement the following measures to restructure the petroleum sector:
* Issue bidding documents for the transfer of a majority controlling interest in the package
to a strategic partner or group of partners that will be required to operate the assets in
accordance with market principles;
* Establish a robust payment mechanism for TAZAMA, to ensure that it is remunerated in
full and in a timely manner for its services. The mechanism could also include a
procedure whereby TAZAMA would be remunerated with product which it could dispose
of for its own account;
* Fully liberalize imports (so that all oil marketing companies could import petroleum
products directly) and retail prices of petroleum products; and
3 Limit the role of ZNOC to manage and control strategic reserves of petroleum products
(leaving all commercial operations to oil marketing companies) equal to thirty days of
average national use.
21. In order to implement the above measures a detailed program will be prepared, in
consultation with IDA, by July 15, 2000 and communicated to IDA for its review. Thereafter,
arrangements will be made for selection of consultants/contractors to: a) prepare asset
evaluation and bidding documents for the sale of a majority controlling interest in the
refinery, pipeline and Ndola product terminal, as a package, to a strategic partner or group of
partners; b) propose specific steps on restructuring ZNOC so that its role will be limited to
manage and control strategic reserves of petroleum products equal to thirty days of average
national use; c) make necessary arrangements for liberalisation of petroleum imports and
retail prices; and d) establish adequate mechanisms for payment of pipeline and terminal
tariffs. Arrangements for liberalisation of petroleum imports and retail prices would involve
announcement in the local press to inform the public, written communication to the oil
companies with a requirement that they display the prices at the retail outlets, and written
communication to the Energy Regulatory Board that it can only exercise ex-post review of
prices.
22. For Zambia Railways (ZR), we have implemented the following measures:
Approved (at the Cabinet level) the concessioning of Zambia Railways as recommended
by ZPA. We have therefore taken an important decision to increase private sector
participation in ZR through private concessioning of infrastructure and selling/leasing of
locomotives and rolling stock in order to: (i) help overcome problems associated with
public ownership and management, viz., inefficiency, over investment, waste, excess
employment, financial losses, and (ii) provide the much needed capital that would enable
to address problems of deferred maintenance and upgrading of the track.



- 73 -
Annex J
Page 8 of 18
* Agreed with IDA on the Zambia Railways staff rationalisation plan in order to
aggressively reduce administrative cost by cutting staff from almost 5,900 to about 3,300
by retrenchment.
We plan to implement the following measures:
* Reforming the Regulatory Framework. The safety and environment-related regulation for
the railways, currently exercised by ZR itself, is inadequate and unsatisfactory. There is a
need to establish an autonomous regulatory body to enforce technical and economic
regulations more effectively. This body would be expected to deal with, among other
things, fair competition, and fair trade practices;
* ZR Restructuring/winding up. Since ZR Limited will no longer have a role once the
freight and passenger services are concessioned, Zambia Railways Limited (ZRL) should
be either restructured to operate as an asset holding company or wound up within a short
period after the concession becomes operational.
23. The Government will continue to divest itself from publicly-owned financial institutions
in accordance with the provisions of the Zambia Privatisation Act. Publicly -owned financial
institutions will be divested in accordance with the provisions of the Privatisation Act,
including the Zambia National Commercial Bank and Zambia State Insurance Company, and
privatisation of the National Savings and Credit Bank.
Bank of Zambia (BOZ)
24. The Bank of Zambia (BOZ) has undertaken substantial quasi-fiscal activities in recent
years. These activities have largely been in response to generalized financial distress in the
domestic economy caused by poor performance in the fiscal and external sectors, which have
created the need to support distressed financial institutions to cover losses and guaranteed
public sector liabilities denominated in foreign currency and provide overdrafts to
commercial banks.
25. The Government is planning to address the BOZ deficit in a comprehensive way. First,
it recognizes that the root causes of this deficit lie in the real sector, i.e., the state owned
enterprises and poor fiscal performance. To that end, a number of measures will be taken to
address these two issues as discussed in this Letter. Second, additional policies will be
implemented to reduce the risk of new contingent or actual liabilities developing on the books
of the Bank of Zambia. The Government plans to limit BOZ exposure to potential future
losses, especially overdrafts to weak banks and guarantees to state owned enterprises. Third,
the operations of BOZ and MOFED will be enhanced to minimize the fiscal cost of
Government debt finance.
26. The BOZ has submitted to the Cabinet's Legislation Committee, for approval, the
amendments to the Banking and Financial Services Act (1994) to enhance the BOZ's power
to sanction, take control of, and de-licence banks. The Government will make provision in all



- 74-
Annex J
Page 9 of 18
future budgets to indemnify the Bank of Zambia for any probable loss on new guarantees that
will be called upon. This will avoid any future losses by BOZ caused by support of distressed
financial institutions, provision of overdrafts to commercial banks, and guaranteed public
sector liabilities denominated in foreign currency. Furthermore, a plan has been submitted by
BOZ and MOFED to alter cash management practices in relation to ministerial accounts held
at commercial banks so as to minimize the arbitrage opportunity that presently exists.
27. In addition, to further reduce the cost of Govermnent debt finance, the Government
intends to take the following measures:
* Submit to Parliament proposed amendments to the Banking and Financial Services Act
(1994) to enhance the BOZ's powers to sanction, take control of and de-licence banks.
* Make provision in all future budgets to indemnify the Bank of Zambia for any probable
loss on new guarantees that will be called upon.
* Adopt a cash management method, agreed upon by BOZ and MOFED, to minirnize the
arbitrage opportunity presently created by ministries' accounts at commercial banks.
* Create, within MOFED, a unified and integrated database for recording and monitoring
external and domestic debt, including timely debt service.
* Reduce the uncertainty premium in domestic interest rates. Specifically, the BOZ will
reduce volatility in the overnight interest rate from current levels and to increase
participation in treasury bill auctions by making an appropriate mix of modifications to
the following operating parameters (i) liquidity management operations (to create a
smoother daily path of excess reserves), (ii) accommodation policy (to reduce the extreme
nature of the penalty for failure to meet liquidity requirements), and (iii) the reserve
maintenance period (to reduce the sensitivity of banks to daily fluctuations in reserve
money).
28. The exchange rate of the Kwacha will continue to be market determined, and the BOZ
intends to maintain its policy of refraining from interventions in the foreign exchange market
that go against the underlying market trend. BOZ will closely monitor conditions in the
exchange market, including price and exchange rate developments in major trading partner
countries.
Pension Reforms
29. The Government is well aware of the vital importance of a well-functioning pension
system given its vital importance as a social safety net as well as a major contributor to the
high quasi-fiscal deficit. A number of measures have been planned to be implemented
rapidly, focusing on urgent, short-term measures to restore the financial solvency of the
Public Service Pensions Fund (PSPF) and on vital longer-term measures to improve the newly



- 75 -
Annex J
Page 10 of 18
created National Pensions Scheme (NPS). The National Pension Scheme Authority (NAPSA)
is the administrative agency responsible for implementing and operating the new NPS.
30. To stem further financial losses to the PSPF, Government has already allocated K26
billion in the 2000 budget to partially clear arrears to the Fund. In addition, it is considering
to implement some of the principal recommendations of the 1999 Actuarial Report. The
Government is fully aware that, while revisions to the benefit and contribution formulas could
include: (a) reducing the benefit rate; (b) raising the length of service before retirement; (c)
raising the retirement age; (d) raising the contribution rate; and/ or (e) reducing the
commutation factor, changing the first three parameters would not effect those civil servants
who have begun their careers prior to 1996 because their pension benefits are protected by
Zambia's Constitution. Reforms in these areas would, therefore, require amendments to the
pension provisions in the Constitution which would require two-thirds majority vote in
Parliament and a popular referendum.
31. The Government therefore intends to phase down the PSPF over the long-term, while
consolidating and improving NPS, which has become effective as of February 1, 2000, to
make it fair and cost-effective and to allow portability (i.e. compatibility) with the private
sector. In order to provide fully satisfactory results, however, the new pension scheme needs
improvements. In the short term Government plans to take three measures:
* Adopt financially sound contribution and benefit parameters;
o Establish transparent governance structure and prudential investment guidelines consistent
with Annex 1 of this letter; and
*  Reduce administrative costs, principally through implementing a redundancy plan
prepared for NPS based on recent optimal human resources evaluation.
32. The above measures build on specific actions already taken by the Government. In this
regard, we have:
To complement these actions, the Government intends to:
*  Agree with IDA on the number of NAPSA staff to be retrenched and the cost thereof,
based on the established criteria;
*  Issue NAPSA statutory instruments in the official Gazette to reflect parameters as
contained in proposed regulations with respect to benefit formulas, minimum pension
guarantee, required length of service, and accrual rate;
*  Submit to IDA evidence on staff retrenchment, including an audit satisfactory to the
Association and carried out by an independent agency acceptable to the Association, showing
that NAPSA had implemented its Redundancy Plan;



- 76 -
Annex J
Page 1 1 of 18
*  Publish in the official Gazette prudential investment guidelines for NAPSA; such guidelines
involve a statement of principles, policies and objectives, rather than a specific statement of
asset categories and so forth, to be reviewed and agreed by IDA; and
*  Complete an actuarial evaluation of NPS to determine (i) the viability of a second-pillar
component and (ii) the relative size of contributions that constitute individual accounts.
*  Commence a study on insurance markets and annuities in Zambia and other selected
countries.
33. In order to ensure transparency in the retrenchment process, NAPSA's Board of
Trustees will approve the criteria and guidelines specified in the document entitled "National
Pension Scheme Authority, Retrenchment Criteria" dated May 13, 2000. The Government
will provide NAPSA with resources up to USD 5 million needed to finance the cost of
retrenchment and will consult with IDA on the terms and conditions of the subsidiary loan
agreement we shall enter into with NAPSA. This subsidiary loan agreement will be approved
by the NAPSA's Board of Trustees. We will:
U Upon completion of the retrenchment exercise, carry out an audit to ensure that it is
conducted in conformity with the agreed criteria and guidelines. A copy of the report will
be furnished to IDA for its review.
34. These short-term measures will be further complemented by a number of medium to
long-term actions that are critical for the success of the National Pension Scheme and that are
presently being studied by Government:
*  Training and human resource up-grade for core staff, strengthening the information and
database system, and decentralizing the NPS in order to ensure provincial access to
pension services;
*  Strengthen the occupational pension schemes. The effort in respect of creating a unified,
financially viable national pension system should be complemented, to the extent possible,
by measures to strengthen the functioning of current occupational schemes that would
complement the statutory schemes.
* Move the NPS towards a multi-pillar system and rely on three pillars2 to produce an
adequate income and provide about 60-70% replacement rates of pre-retirement salaries
2 The first pillar will be a defined benefit plan based on a pay-as-you-go (PAYG) basis. The
second pillar will be run on a defined contribution (DC) basis with decentralized fund
management. Based on salaries in the range of 2 to 4 gross average wages, this pillar would
provide a vehicle for long term savings mobilization in Zambia. Individual (pension)
accounts will be privately managed and held in segregated trust accounts under appropriate



- 77 -
Annex J
Page 12 of 18
for a full career worker. This system would have several advantages over the currently
proposed national pension plan: it supplements the existing system; integrates both
poverty reduction goals and income replacement goals; and, allows for better risk
diversification, labor market mobility, improved compliance and improved financial
markets, all of which would enhance efficiency and broader macroeconomic goals such as
increased national savings and investment.
V. FISCAL MANAGEMENT
35. The Government recognizes that without fundamental reforms of the budget
management system, public expenditures will continue to have little impact on poverty
reduction and economic growth. The current cash rationing system as implemented in
Zambia has been fraught with problems: ad hoc budget decisions throughout the year that
bear no relation to the original budget; inefficiencies in government operations as the
Government has to pay for its purchases of materials and supplies at higher prices; and sub-
optimal allocation of scarce budgetary resources. Furthermore, the breakdown of fiscal
discipline has resulted in the budget losing its central role as an instrument in the allocation of
resources according to the country's priorities. In the medium term, Zambia needs to move
toward a more conventional budget system, based on a strategic policy and medium-term
expenditure framework where line ministries are provided with greater responsibility for
decisions related to resource allocation and use. In the short term, however, the Government
plans to implement a series of major improvements to the present cash budget system.
Specifically, it intends to improve predictability, accountability and transparency of public
spending in the present budget implementation system.
36.  To improve predictability for line ministries and other spending agencies, the cash
release system will be modified by introducing the concept of a quarterly cash allocation plan:
* On the basis of projected revenues and other inflows into the government account at BOZ,
the Government will prepare within the last 10 working days of the current quarter a cash
allocation plan for the next quarter, to be issued in the Treasury Circulars. This cash
allocation plan, which will amount to 80 percent of the Yellow Book allocation for the
corresponding three months, will be subdivided into three monthly cash releases.
MOFED will inform every spending agency of their projected cash allocation (broken
down by Personal Emolument (PE), RDC, grants, and Capital Expenditures). This would
allow spending agencies to start planning their activities for the entire quarter.
Nonetheless, actual cash releases will continue to be made on a monthly basis.
Preparation of the quarterly cash allocation plans and of the monthly cash releases will be
done by the existing cash release committee in MOFED enlarged by a representative of
MOFED's Macroeconomics and Policy Analysis Directorate.
custodianship. It is expected that this scheme will be regulated and supervised by an agency to
be determined by the GRZ. The third-pillar would allow for voluntary risk sharing activities
between employees and employers.



- 78 -
Annex J
Page 13 of 18
*  A set of rules would be issued, as part of the quarterly cash allocation plan above,
indicating how reductions in cash allocations are to be implemented if such reductions are
deemed necessary. Among other things, this would aim at protecting the social sector
ministries from ad hoc transfers of their budget allocations to other ministries from July
2000 (estimated date of Credit effectiveness) and at protecting the economic sector
ministries3 from ad hoc transfers of their domestically-financed budget allocations for
project capital expenditures from January 1, 2001, forward. In addition, budget
allocations to the social sector ministries will total at least 36 percent, and domestically-
financed project capital expenditures of the economic sector ministries at least 12 percent,
of the discretionary budget. Compliance with this measure would be monitored by
specific targets for cash releases to the priority ministries, thereby strengthening and
expanding the Bank's efforts to redirect public spending to social services, begun
successfully with the 1994 ESAC.
- A mid-year budget review will be undertaken by MOFED following present procedures
for the preparation and submission of supplementary estimates.
37. To improve accountability, the following measures will be implemented to strengthen
commitment control and sanctions:
-  MOFED will cut back quarterly cash allocations to over-committed ministries and to
redistribute saved funds to ministries operating within their commitment ceilings. In
addition, for over-committing ministries, MOFED will impose strict controls on
expenditure commitments (e.g., by imposing a freeze on the signing of new project
contracts by the delinquent ministry until expenditure commitments are reduced to
allowable levels), and by strictly enforcing the existing rule by which total outstanding
expenditure commitments are limited to 10 percent of the annual warrant.
*  Controlling officers of line ministries will submit regular monthly reports on total
outstanding commitments (both new and ongoing) and that these reports be accurate,
comprehensive, and submitted on a timely basis (within 15 days after the end of each
month). Non-compliance with this rule will result in MOFED withholding of monthly
cash releases. As an additional security against spending overruns, any unused quarterly
contingency will continue to be used to pay arrears in capital expenditures. Otherwise,
3 Including the following budget heads: Ministry of Energy and Water Development (except
for water and sanitation, which is protected in the social ministries),.Ministry of Mines and
Minerals Development, Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Development
(except for water and sanitation, which is protected in the social ministries), Loans and
Investments - Ministry of Local Government and Housing, Loans and Investments - Ministry
of Finance and Economic Development, Ministry of Local Government and Housing,
Ministry of Commerce, Trade and Industry, Ministry of Communications and Transport,
Ministry of Works and Supply, Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of Lands, Ministry of
Agriculture, Food and Fisheries.



- 79 -
Annex J
Page 14 of 18
they will be carried forward to the following quarter. At the end of the year, any unused
contingency will be used to retire Government debt.
*  The Commitment Monitoring Unit (CMU) will monitor over-commitments carefully and
use the information on expenditure commitments in the quarterly cash planning exercises.
The CMU will be required to prepare monthly reports summarizing the situation of
commitments, cash outlays, and payment arrears and provide these to MOFED managers.
For every quarter, these reports will be distributed more widely, including copies to
ministries. For all ministries that exceed commitment limits or accumulate new
expenditure arrears, the quarterly reports will attach the obligatory written explanations by
controlling officers of ministries as to the reasons why these adverse developments have
taken place.
*  Controlling officers will be held personally accountable to enforce the new financial
regulations, which will specify clearly the sanctions and penalties to these officers and
delegated officials who fail to fulfill their responsibilities. To this end, the Finance Act is
being revised to include appropriate sanctions and penalties for controlling officers who
fail to fulfil their responsibilities. The revisions have been completed and are under
consideration within MOFED. They will subsequently be sent to Cabinet for approval,
and after Cabinet approval, a draft will be sent to the Ministry of Legal Affairs (MOLA)
for legal drafting and subsequent presentation to Parliament.
38. To improve budget transparency and to facilitate monitoring, the Government intends to
implement the following measures:
3 Within a month after the end of each quarter, MOFED will publish a quarterly report on
Government expenditures in the monthly Macroeconomic Indicators report, which would
include a comparison between actual cash releases by spending agency (budget head) and
major expenditure category (budget subhead) with the quarterly cash allocation plan and
with original budget allocations along the format specified in Annex 4, Table 3 of the
Minutes of Negotiations dated May 31, 2000. Among other things, these reports would
show from which ministries funds have been taken away to finance new expenditure
requests from other ministries not originally funded in the budget.
* Furthermore, government financial statistics should be strengthened as an instrument for
fiscal analysis by providing expanded information on extra-budgetary funds, contingency
claims, quasi-fiscal activities, and financing plans, including projected level and
composition of central government debt. As a next step, information about the major
state-owned enterprises, including their income statements, would be published in the
annual Economic Report issued by MOFED. In addition, the Yellow Book would include
two summary tables along the format specified in Annex 3 to the Minutes of Negotiations
dated May 31, 2000. The first one ("Government Domestic Operations") will show



- 80-
Annex J
Page 15 of 18
aggregate revenues and expenditures by broad category4 and the second ("Annual
Government Expenditure Summary") will show expenditures by budget head and broad
category, including preceding year actuals and present year allocations. Finally, the
monthly Macroeconomic Indicators report will include tables showing the level and
composition of external and domestic government debt.
* The office of the auditor-general (AG) will be equipped with adequate financial resources
to carry out audits of government accounts within a year of the end of the year. The AG
will be called upon to investigate and report to parliament on spending agencies that
continue to make over-commitments.
39. In the longer term, the Government will replace the current cash budget by a
conventional budget system. To that end, the Government will actively pursue preparation of
a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) -based budget system and introduction of
an Integrated Financial Management Information System(IEMIS). These efforts to be
undertaken as part of the Public Sector Capacity Building Program (PSCAP).
The Public Sector Reform Programme (PSRP)
40. To stem the decline in the cost-effectiveness of the public service, and to make it more
responsive to the country's needs, the Government adopted a public sector reform program
(PSRP) in 1993 aimed at, inter alia, reducing nonmilitary public employment, decompressing
public sector salaries, and improving performance management systems. Substantial progress
has been made but the effort needs to continue. Through a combination of a voluntary
separation programme and a limited hiring freeze the size of the nonmilitary public service
was reduced from 137,000 in 1997 to 112,000 by end-1999. Within this significant
downsizing, efforts have been made to maintain adequate service delivery by protecting front
line service providers (e.g. nurses, teachers, police) from retrenchment. Reforms have also
included measures to improve political and economic governance. The Government
presented a comprehensive Governance program to donors at the May 1999 Consultative
Group Meeting which was officially launched by the President of Zambia recently, affirming
Zambia's commitment to the good governance program. This builds on past actions (e.g. the
establishment of the Anti-Corruption Commission, training of justices, auditing and public
tender reforms) and is closely tied to PSRP measures aimed at raising the morale and
performance standards of civil service.
4 On the revenue side, income tax, VAT, import tax, non tax revenue, and grants . On the
expenditure side, wages, interest on domestic and external debt, RDC, grants, and capital
expenditures.



- 81 -
Annex J
Page 16 of 18
VI. SOCIAL POLICIES AND POVERTY REDUCTION
41. The Government is deeply concerned about the widespread poverty in Zambia. It will
pursue its fight against poverty within the framework of the National Poverty Reduction
Action Plan (NPRAP) first prepared in November 1998 and refined at a consultative meeting
held in January of this year. A final draft of the NPRAP is expected to be submitted to
Cabinet for approval and adoption soon. It will contribute to Zambia's long term prospects for
growth and enhance the quality of life for its citizens. Among others, it revamps the Public
Welfare Assistance Scheme, both in terms of its eligibility criteria and operational guidelines
and makes it more community based.
42. The NPRAP aims at reducing the overall incidence of poverty from 70 to 50 percent of
the population by the year 2004. The strategies proposed recognize the fact that poverty can
only be tackled successfully by sustained growth in per capita income. Hence, the importance
given in the Plan to efficient management of the economy and sustainable economic growth
with particular emphasis on agriculture and rural development. Urban development to be
stimulated through increasing productivity of urban micro enterprises and informal sector.
Human resource development will focus on the provision of more adequate and reliable
educational and health services and improvements in the social safety net. To strengthen the
delivery of social services Government intends to improve the policy and institutional
framework and the effectiveness of the social safety net as well as to maintain public
expenditures to specific social sector categories at least at 36 percent of domestic budget
expenditures (excluding debt service) during 2000-2001 as was the case in 1998-1999.
43. The Poverty Reduction Plan will be further elucidated in an Interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP) prepared by the Government in collaboration with the World Bank and
the IMF. PRSP preparation will utilize Zambia's rich source of poverty and household data
compiled through four national household surveys conducted in the 1990s. A Poverty and
Public Expenditure Review has also been initiated with Bank collaboration and will serve as
an underpinning to the full-PRSP by analyzing the level and nature of expenditures and public
services that reach the poor.
VII. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
44. The program of measures proposed in the context of the Fiscal Sustainability Credit
requires effective coordination among many agencies and ministries. For these reasons,
management of the program has been entrusted to a Technical Committee of Permanent
Secretaries to be chaired by the Secretary to the Treasury.



- 82-
Annex J
Page 17 of 18
VIII. CONCLUDING REMARKS
45. The Fiscal Sustainability Credit will help meet Zambia's external financing needs for
the year 2000 and 2001, support major reforms to reduce the overall public sector deficit and
to improve fiscal management in Zambia. At an aggregate level, the Credit directly
contributes to the maintenance of a stable macroeconomic framework conducive to economic
growth by ensuring that fiscal progress achieved in the last few years will be long lasting. At
a sector level, the Credit has specific and direct impacts on poverty alleviation. Reducing the
overall public sector deficit will help ensure adequate funding to help the poor and other
vulnerable groups, in addition to mobilizing domestic savings to finance higher investment
and growth. Reforming budget management will ensure that Government's budget priorities
on social development and poverty alleviation will be faithfully reflected in actual cash
releases. The proposed Credit therefore will have direct, positive impact on our country's
poverty reduction strategy.
Yours sincerely,
(SIGNED)
DR. KATELE KALUMBA, MP
MINISTER OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT



- 83 -
Annex J
Page 18 of 18
Annex 1
NAPSA PRUDENTIAL INVESTMENT GUIDELINES
The guidelines should contain first and foremost a set of guiding principles and
objectives. Those should embody policy choices that balance the best interests of members
and contributing employers on the one hand and with the development objectives of Zambia
on the other hand. Members' and contributors' interests may be defined as obtaining an
expected rate of return that is as high as possible consistent with volatility, and country risks
that have been explicitly chosen by policy makers. This suggests guidelines that emphasize
investment in a broadly diversified portfolio of investment-grade foreign securities.
Development objectives, on the other hand, would emphasize investment in Zambia,
optimally in a manner that would encourage the development of a local financial
infrastructure of well-regulated but competitive actors seeking the most efficient allocation of
capital. These various objectives may have different balances overtime as Zambia's capital
markets develop and may be constrained by current account considerations. Prudence,
however, requires that primary attention must be given to members' and contributors'
interests within known risk/reward parameters chosen by policy-makers.
Some countries in their pension schemes maintain only "prudent man" principles with
a specific emphasis on procedural and conflict-of-interest rules. Other countries buttress
procedural and conflict rules with ones concerning asset categories and investment grading.
The task for Zambia is to analyze different foreign experiences and have a clear debate about
the competing objectives discussed above.



