Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3392-2-ZA
(Second Amendment)
Second Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Fiscal Sustainability Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 22, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3392-2-ZA
(Second Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Fiscal Sustainability Credit) dated July 27, 2000 (the Development 
Credit Agreement), for the purpose of providing support during the execution of the 
Borrower’s program designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s 
economy;
(B)
pursuant to an Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement 
(Fiscal Sustainability Credit) between the Borrower and the Association, dated 
December 22 (the First Amending Agreement), the Association has agreed to provide 
additional assistance in support of the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance in support of the Program to address imbalances in its economy caused by 
recent increases in oil prices, by increasing the amount made available under the 
Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
twenty-three million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 23,500,000); 
and 
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as 
follows:
(a)
a new paragraph (q) is added reading:
“(q)
‘Second Amending Agreement’ means this Second 
Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement (Fiscal 
Sustainability Credit) between the Borrower and the Association, 
dated 
December 22.”
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
(a)
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred thirty million six hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 130,600,000) (the Credit), which includes: (a) an 
original amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred five million five 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 105,500,000) (the Initial Financing); (b) 
an additional amount in various currencies equivalent to one million six hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,600,000) (the First Additional Financing); and 
(c) a second supplemental amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-three 
million five hundred thousand million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 23,500,000) (the 
Second Additional Financing) in three tranches as set out below.”
(b)
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended to read as follows:
“(a)
a first tranche in an amount equivalent to SDR 
59,000,000; and”
Section 1.03. Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as 
follows:
(a)
Paragraph (a) is amended by substituting the phrase “paragraphs (b), (c), 
(d), (e) and (f)” by “paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g)”.
(b)
The following paragraph (g) is added at the end of said Section 2.02 
reading as follows:
“(g)
After a date twelve months from the date of the 
Amending Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made from the Credit 
Account in 
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Additional 
Financing. At any time after such date, 
the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Additional Financing 
from the Credit 
Account or any part thereof.”
Section 1.04. Paragraph (b) (i) of Section 2.04 of the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended by adding after the term “the date of the Amending Agreement” the 
Page  3
following proviso reading:
“and that any commitment charge on the Second Additional 
Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of 
the Second 
Amending Agreement.”
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Second Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association 
that: (a) the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory, as 
measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Association; 
and (b) the execution and delivery of this Second Amending Agreement on behalf of the 
Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Second Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an 
opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the 
Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Second Amending Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Second Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Second Amending Agreement shall not have come into force 
and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Second Amending 
Agreement, this Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall 
terminate, unless the
Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this 
Section. If this Second Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of 
this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect, as if this Second Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By /s/ Atan Shansonga
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
Page  4
