Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF090462-JO 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement 
 
(Integrated Ecosystem Management in the Jordan Rift Valley Project) 
 
between 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT, 
(acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility) 
 
Dated  August 9, 2007 
 
Page  2
Page  3
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF090462-JO 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY  
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated  August 9, 2007, entered into between THE HASHEMITE 
KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVLOPMENT (“World Bank”), acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (“GEF”). 
 
The Recipient and the World Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various 
Funds, dated July 20, 2006 (“Standard Conditions”), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement. 
 
1.02 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in 
this Agreement, and the additional terms wherever used in this Agreement have 
the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the 
World Bank in May 2004. 
 
(c) 
“Environmental and Social Assessment” means the Recipient’s 
environmental and social assessment of the Project, furnished to the 
World Bank on October 31, 2006, pursuant to the World Bank’s 
Operational Policy 4.01, to identify, avoid and mitigate potential 
negative environmental impacts associated with the Project. 
 
(d) 
“Environmental and Social Management Plan” means the Recipient’s 
environmental and social management plan for the Project, furnished to 
the World Bank on November 6, 2006, as such plan may be updated 
from time to time in agreement with the World Bank, setting forth the 
mitigating, monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during the 
implementation and operation of the Project to offset or reduce adverse 
Page  4
-
2
-
environmental, natural habitats and cultural property impacts to levels 
acceptable to the World Bank. 
 
(e) 
“Foreign Expenditure” means an expenditure in the Currency of any 
country other than the Recipient for goods, works or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than the Recipient. 
 
(f) 
“Local Expenditures” means an expenditure: (a) in the Currency of the 
Recipient; or (b) for goods, works or services supplied from the territory 
of the Recipient; provided however, that if the Currency of the Recipient 
is also that of another country from the territory of which goods, works 
or services are supplied, an expenditure in such Currency for such goods, 
works or services shall be deemed to be a Foreign Expenditure.  
 
(g) 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the World Bank in  
May 2004. 
 
(h) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s 
procurement plan for the Project, dated April 16, 2007, and referred to in 
paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
agreement with the World Bank. 
 
(i) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project Implementing Entity’s 
plan describing: (i) procedures for  implementation of the Project; (ii) 
procedures governing the procurement, accounting and financial 
management processes, as well as measures for forensic audits and 
complaint mechanisms in case of misuse of the proceeds of the Grant
,
and monitoring and evaluation arrangements; and (iii) sample formats for 
periodic reports, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
agreement of the World Bank. 
 
(j) 
“Project Implementing Entity” or “RSCN” means the Royal Society for 
the Conservation of Nature, an agency of the Recipient in charge of 
conservation of nature, established pursuant to the Recipient’s Civil 
Organizations and Cooperatives Law 1966, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and includes any successor to RSCN acceptable to the 
World Bank.  
 
(k) 
“Resettlement Process Framework” means the Resettlement Process 
Framework furnished to the World Bank by the Recipient on 
 
November 6, 2006, which, 
inter alia
,
defines the principles, 
organizational arrangements and design criteria to be applied to any land 
acquisition and/or involuntary resettlement that may arise in the course 
Page  5
-
3
-
of the implementation of the Project, as the same shall be updated from 
time to time in agreement with the World Bank. 
 
(l) 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement between the Recipient and 
the Project Implementing Entity, referred to in Section I.A of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement, pursuant to which the Recipient shall make the 
proceeds of the Grant available to the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Project 
 
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).  To this end, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project through the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the Standard Conditions and the agreement dated 
the same date as this Agreement between the World Bank and the Project 
Implementing Entity, as such agreement may be amended from time to time 
(“Project Agreement”)
.
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
The Grant 
 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to six 
million one hundred and fifty thousand United States Dollars ($6,150,000) 
(“Grant”) to assist in financing the Project. 
 
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Remedies 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension referred to in Section 4.02(i) of the 
Standard Conditions consist of the following:   
 
Page  6
-
4
-
(a) 
The Recipient has taken or permitted to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with the performance by the Project Implementing 
Entity of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Project Implementing Entity has failed to perform any obligation 
under the Project Agreement.  
 
(c) 
The World Bank or the International Development Association (“IDA”) 
has declared the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to be awarded a 
contract financed by the World Bank or IDA. 
 
(d) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation has arisen which makes it 
improbable that the Project Implementing Entity will be able to perform 
its obligations under the Project Agreement.   
 
(e) 
The Recipient’s Civil Organizations and Cooperatives Law of 1966 has 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
5.01. 
This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the 
World Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the conditions specified 
below have been satisfied. 
 
(a) 
The execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient 
and the Project Agreement on behalf of the Project Implementing Entity 
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and 
corporate action. 
 
(b) 
If World Bank so requests, the condition of the Recipient and the Project 
Implementing Entity, as represented or warranted to the World Bank at 
the date of this Agreement, has undergone no material adverse change 
after such date. 
 
(c) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient 
and the Project Implementing Entity. 
 
5.02. 
As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 5.01(a), there shall be 
furnished to the World Bank an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the World 
Bank of counsel acceptable to the World Bank or, if the World Bank so requests, 
Page  7
-
5
-
a
certificate satisfactory to the World Bank of a competent official of the 
Recipient, showing the following matters:  
 
(a)  
on behalf of the Recipient, that this Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on its behalf and is legally 
binding upon it in accordance with its terms;  
 
(b) 
on behalf of the Project Implementing Entity, that the Project Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on its 
behalf and is legally binding upon it in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(c) 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding 
upon each such party in accordance with its terms. 
 
5.03. 
Except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, this 
Agreement shall enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank 
dispatches to the Recipient notice of its acceptance of the evidence required 
pursuant to Section 5.01 (“Effective Date”).  If, before the Effective Date, any 
event has occurred which would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the 
right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account if this 
Agreement had been effective, the World Bank may postpone the dispatch of the 
notice referred to in this Section until such event (or events) has (or have) ceased 
to exist.  
 
5.04. 
Termination for Failure to Become Effective.  This Agreement and all 
obligations of the parties under it shall terminate if it has not entered into effect 
90 days after the date of this Agreement, unless the World Bank, after 
consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes a later date for the purpose 
of this Section. The World Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Recipient’s Representative; Addresses 
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard 
Conditions is the Minister of Planning and International Cooperation. 
Page  8
-
6
-
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation 
P.O. Box 555 
Amman 11118 
Jordan 
 
Facsimile: 
 
962-6-464-9341 
962-6-464-2247 
 
6.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
-
7
-
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
By / s / 
 Zeid Ra’ad Al-Hussein 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
(acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment 
Facility) 
 
By / s / Daniela Gressani 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  10
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient in: (i) implementing 
generally accepted principles of integrated ecosystem management pertaining to land use 
in the Jordan Rift Valley; and (ii) establishing a network of integrated ecosystem 
management for protected areas and special conservation areas in the Jordan Rift Valley. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part 1
:
Assessments and Strategic Planning for Integrated Ecosystem Management in the 
Jordan Rift Valley
(a) 
Developing a framework for integrated ecosystem management, 
including biodiversity conservation and community participation 
programs to strengthen the existing land use planning framework. 
 
(b) 
Carrying out ecological, social and economic assessments relating to the 
protected areas and the special conservation areas. 
 
(c) 
Determining boundaries of the protected areas and the special 
conservation areas. 
 
(d) 
Carrying out an awareness campaign relating to integrated ecosystem 
management, and building capacity in the protected areas and the special 
conservation areas for managing an integrated ecosystem. 
 
(e) 
Developing a policy framework for the conservation of nature in the 
protected areas. 
 
Part 2
:
Establishment of a Network for Biodiversity Conservation Sites
(a) 
Establishment of a network for integrated ecosystem management for the 
protected areas and the special conservation areas, including carrying out 
an assessment for training needs and carrying out training programs for 
the protected areas and the special conservation areas. 
 
(b) 
Development of models of integrated ecosystem management, including 
community-based nature enterprises, through the development of 
management systems and plans for the protected areas and the special 
conservation areas. 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
Part 3
:
Climate Change
(a) 
Carrying out of studies and assessments on climate change including, 
assessments of shifts in climatic patterns, shifts in species range and their relation 
to other key parameters in the context of conservation planning. 
 
(b) 
Development and dissemination of adaptation options to allow inter alia for 
incorporation of the study findings into the planning and management process. 
 
Part 4
:
Development of Sustainable Financing Mechanisms For Protected Areas and 
Special Conservation Areas
Strengthening the financial and capital bases of the Project Implementing Entity 
through the development of sustainable financing mechanisms and the raising of funds to 
support the management of the protected areas and the special conservation areas. 
 
Part 5
:
Project Management, Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
Support to the Project Implementing Entity in the areas of implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project, and coordination with key stakeholders and 
partners, through the provision of goods, works, training, incremental operating costs and 
consultants services. 
 
Page  12
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds 
of the Grant available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary 
agreement between the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity, under 
terms and conditions approved by the World Bank.  
 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the World Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Grant.  Except as the World Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of its provisions. 
 
B
.
Project Implementation 
 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity: (i) to carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement, the 
Subsidiary Agreement, the Project Implementation Plan, the Environmental and 
Social Management Plan, the Environmental and Social Assessment and the 
Resettlement Process Framework; (ii) to take all action, including the provision 
of funds, facilities, services, and other resources, necessary or appropriate for the 
carrying out of the Project; and (iii) not to take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. 
Project Reports; Completion Report 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis 
of the indicators agreed with the World Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the 
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the World Bank not 
later than one month after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare the 
Completion Report in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the 
Standard Conditions.  The Completion Report shall be furnished to the World 
Page  13
-
11
-
Bank by the Project Implementing Entity not later than six months after the 
Closing Date.  
 
B. 
Financial Management; Financial Reports; Audits 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to maintain a financial 
management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the 
Standard Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish 
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project to the World Bank not later 
than forty-five days after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare Financial 
Statements for the Project and Financial Statements of the Project Implementing 
Entity, and have these statements audited in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.07(b) of the Standard Conditions.  Each such audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank 
not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
4. 
In order to assist the Project Implementing Entity in preparing the audited 
Financial Statements for the Project, the Project Implementing Entity shall 
employ an independent external auditor, whose qualifications, experience and 
terms of reference are acceptable to the World Bank, to review the statements on 
a
semi annual basis, and such reviews to be submitted to the World Bank within 
forty-five (45) days following the end of the semi annual year under audit. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. 
Procurement and Consultant Guidelines.  
All goods, works and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall 
be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in: 
 
(a) 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the World Bank in May 2004 (“Procurement 
Guidelines”) in the case of goods and works, and Sections I and IV of the 
“Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” published by the World Bank in May 2004 (“Consultant 
Guidelines”) in the case of consultants’ services; and 
 
Page  14
-
12
-
(b) 
the provisions of this Section III, as the same shall be elaborated in the 
procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by the 
Recipient for the Project in accordance with paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines 
(“Procurement Plan”). 
 
2. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding. 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following method, 
other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used for procurement of 
goods and works for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) 
National Competitive Bidding, (b) Shopping, and (c) Direct contracting. National 
Competitive Bidding is subject to the following additional provisions: 
 
(i) 
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national newspaper 
with a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the 
submission of bids; 
 
(ii) 
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who 
are willing to pay the required fee; 
 
(iii) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of 
any kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding process, to that 
end, having a presence in the Recipient’s territory should not be a 
condition for bidding; 
 
(iv) 
qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents, and one 
envelop system shall be used; 
 
(v) 
except for late bids, bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the 
deadline for submission of bids, and the prices for all bids will be read 
out in this public session and no disqualification shall be made at that 
stage; 
 
(vi) 
before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Bank’s prior 
concurrence shall be obtained;  
Page  15
-
13
-
(vii) 
bids shall be solicited and contracts shall be awarded on the basis of unit 
prices, and not on the basis of a schedule of rates, and award will be 
based on all items included within the bid or the lot in case of multiple 
lots; 
 
(viii) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified bidders; 
and  
 
(ix) 
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated 
or any other bidders. 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection. 
2.
 Other
 Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be 
used for procurement of consultants’ services for those assignments which are 
specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) Selection based on the Consultants’ 
Qualification; (b) Least Cost Selection; (c) Single-source Selection; (d) 
Individual Consultants; and (e) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of 
Individual Consultants. 
 
D. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
World Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the World Bank. 
 
2. 
Shortlists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
A. General 
 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of (a) Article III of the Standard Conditions, (b) this Section, and (c) 
such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the 
Recipient (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” 
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made 
Page  16
-
14
-
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated 
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of Expenditures  
to be Financed 
 
(1) Works 
 
780,000 
 
90% 
(2) Goods 
     754,700 
100% of foreign expenditures; 100% 
of local expenditures (ex-factory 
cost), and 90% of local expenditures 
for other items procured locally 
 
(3) Consultant services 
 3,179,100 
90% of local expenditures for 
services of consulting firms 
domiciled within the territory of the 
borrower; 90% of foreign 
expenditures for services of 
individual consultants and firms; and 
95% of local expenditures for 
services of individual consultants 
domiciled within the territory of the 
borrower.   
 
(4) Training and  
workshops 
 
420,000 
 
100% 
 
(5) Incremental Operating 
Costs* 
 
1,016,200
90% 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
6,150,000
*
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the 
incremental expenses incurred on account of Project implementation and management, 
including the operation and maintenance of vehicles, office supplies, communication 
charges, insurance costs, labor costs, office administration costs, banking charges, utility 
charges, domestic travel and per diem allowances, but excluding salaries of the officials 
of the Recipient’s civil service. 
 
Page  17
-
15
-
B. 
Closing Date   
 
1.
 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06(c) of the Standard Conditions is  
July 14, 2013. 
 
