Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 3015 AR 
(Tax Administration Technical Assistance Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 30, 1989
LOAN NUMBER 3015 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March 30, 1989, between THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of  Section 
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Annual Action Program" means the annual program of actions to be prepared 
and furnished to the Bank by the Borrower through the DGI pursuant to Section 3.05 of 
this Agreement;
     (b)  "DGI" means Direccion General Impositiva, the Borrower's Directorate of Tax 
Administration;
     (c)  "Executing Agency" means the DGI;
     (d)  "fiscal year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower beginning on January 1 
and ending on December 31 of each year;
     (e)  "Project Director" means an official appointed by DGI to exercise overall 
supervision of the execution of the Project and referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (v) of 
this Agreement;
     (f)  "Executive Director" means an independent consultant employed by DGI to 
coordinate the execution of the Project and referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (v) of 
this Agreement;
     (g)  "Executive Unit" means a unit established by DGI, headed by the Executive 
Director, integrated by the Component Directors (as such term is hereinafter defined) 
to coordinate the execution of each of the parts of the Project;
     (h)  "Component Director" means each of the Directors appointed, or employed, by 
DGI to manage and supervise the execution of each of the parts of  the Project and 
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (v) of this Agreement;
     (i)  "Project Preparation Advance Facility" means the project preparation advance 
facility granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange  of letters dated 
November 11, 1988 and November 23, 1988 between the Borrower and the Bank;
     (j)  "Management Service Contract" means the agreement referred to in Section 
3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
     (k)  "SH" means Secretaria de Hacienda, the Borrower's Secretariat of the 
Treasury;
     (l)  "VAT" means Impuesto al Valor Agregado, the Borrower's value added tax 
established under Ley 23349, dated 25 August 1986; and
     (m)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to herein, an amount in various currencies  
equivalent to six million, five hundred thousand U.S. dollars ($6,500,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan  Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for  expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
U.S. dollars a special account at its Central Bank on terms and  conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the  Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required  to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance Facility  withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance Facility shall 
Page  3
thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1991 or such later  date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank  shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each
               date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the
               Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding
               borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed
               as a percentage per annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months
               of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 1 
and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end,  shall carry 
out the Project, through DGI, with due diligence and efficiency  and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall ensure that DGI, until the Closing Date, carries  out its functions and 
responsibilities in respect of the Project in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, such 
functions and responsibilities to include,  inter alia, the following:
          (i)  the development of a computerized database in relation to the
               Borrower's 2,000 largest taxpayers and supervising the
               implementation of adequate measures to prevent tax avoidance
               and to promote tax compliance by such taxpayers through use of
               the computerized database;
         (ii)  implementing and monitoring a new internal auditing system which
               shall include a training program for current employees of the
               DGI and the employment of external and independent auditors for
               the purpose of an initial six-month internal auditing program
               and thereafter preparing an auditing program for 1990
               satisfactory to the Bank;
        (iii)  providing new computing equipment and the training of DGI
               personnel in its use;
         (iv)  preparing annual reports on the progress of the Project; and
Page  4
          (v)  maintaining a Coordinating Commission, a Project Director, and
               an Executive Unit, headed by an Executive Director and with
               functions satisfactory to the Bank, and Directors (the
               Component Directors) for the managing and supervision of each
               of the parts of the Project. The Executive Director and each of
               the Component Directors shall have qualifications and functions
               satisfactory to the Bank.
     (c)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the  Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program satisfactory to the 
Bank.
     Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower through DGI shall enter into contractual 
arrangements (the  Management Service Contract) satisfactory to the Bank, with
an agent or agents acceptable to the Bank for handling the procurement and acquisition 
of new computing equipment for use in the DGI under Part F of the
Project.
     (b)  The Borrower through DGI shall exercise its rights under the Management 
Service Contract in such a manner as to protect the interest of the parties to this  
greement and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and,  except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any 
Management Service Contract or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.03. (a) Not later than April 30, 1989, the Borrower, through DGI, shall 
provide to the Bank a list of key indicators applicable to  information available 
within DGI and satisfactory to the Bank, to be used in improving DGI's internal 
auditing and management.
     (b)  Not later than each subsequent October 31 and April 30, until the Closing 
Date, the  Borrower through DGI shall furnish to the Bank a written report of such 
scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably request  containing an evaluation  of 
the performance of DGI through such key indicators during the preceding period of 
January 1 through June 30 or July 1 through December 31, as the case may be. In 
addition, the Borrower shall issue such report, within 90 days from the Closing Date, 
as to the period between the last date covered by such semi-annual report and the 
Closing Date.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower through DGI (i) will promptly upon the completion of 
the internal auditing program for 1989, constituting Part D (iv)  of the Project, 
provide to the Bank the results of such auditing program; (ii)  shall afford the Bank 
a reasonable opportunity to comment on said results, and (iii) shall take into account 
the Bank's comments thereon in connection with the preparation of the auditing program 
for 1990 satisfactory to the Bank constituting Part D (v) of the Project.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, through the 
DGI, not later than September 1 of each year, for its review and agreement,  an Annual 
Action Program containing the objectives, activities, institutional arrangements and 
anticipated results of the execution of each part of the Project in the immediately 
following fiscal year.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower through DGI shall: (i) carry out the studies included 
under Parts D  and E of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank which, unless the  Borrower and the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, shall include specific programs  or plans of action to meet the 
objectives of the Project; (ii) promptly after completion of each such study, furnish 
to the Bank a copy of its findings and recommendations including such programs or 
plans of action; (iii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such 
findings, recommendations and programs or plans of action; (iv) where appropriate, 
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon, prepare and carry out programs or 
plans of action satisfactory to the Bank to implement the recommendations of such 
studies as required to meet the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement; and (v) shall carry out the recommendations of the study included 
under Part C of the Project which it regards as appropriate and  feasible for 
attaining said objectives of the Project.
     Section 3.07. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be  financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions  of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Page  5
     (b)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) above and without  
limitation thereto, the acquisition of any goods required for the Project by means of 
leasing arrangements, as well as the acquisition of computer software  by means other 
than purchase, shall be carried out under procedures  satisfactory to the Bank.
     (c)  Public servants employed by the Borrower under any kind of administrative 
arrangements (including leave without pay) shall not be eligible during the term of 
employment by the Borrower, for providing consulting services to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan.
     (d)  The Borrower shall maintain in DGI qualified staff in adequate number as 
counterparts of the consultants employed under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound   accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of  the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower (including DGI) responsible for carrying out 
the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
               this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
               appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
               later than four months after the end of each such year, the
               report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
               records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph
               (a) of this  Section, records and accounts reflecting such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has received the
               audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
               from the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
               audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
               report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
               auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and
               internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any party shall have  failed to 
perform its obligations under a Management Service Contract or other contractual 
arrangement in respect of the Project.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  6
following additional event is specified:
     (a)  the event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and  shall 
continue for a period of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions  to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
     (a)  that the Borrower shall have entered into the Management Service Contract;
     (b)  that the Borrower shall have employed all the consultants referred to in 
Section II paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  that all action has been taken by the Borrower in order to permit the 
procurement of goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in  the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Management Service Contract has been duly executed and authorized 
or ratified by the parties thereto, and is legally binding upon such parties in 
accordance with its terms;
     (b)  that the action referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement has been taken and no other action on behalf of the Borrower is  required 
for the procurement of goods, works and services in accordance with the provisions of 
this Agreement.
     Section 6.03. The date June 28, 1989, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of the Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
         Ministerio de Economia
         Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
         Buenos Aires
         Argentina
         Cable address:                      Telex:
              Ministerio Economia
              Baires                         121952
    For the Bank:
         International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
         1818 H Street, N.W.
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         United States of America
         Cable address:                      Telex:
Page  7
              INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
              Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                              64145 (WUI)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
                   THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
                   By /s/ Carlos Marcelo Da Corte
Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin American and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each  Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Technical                 1,380,000       100%
     Assistance
     (including
     Consultants'
     Services and
     contract hiring)
(2)  Training, consisting      1,268,000       100% of foreign
     of teaching materials                     expenditures and
     and consultants'                          35% of local
     services                                  expenditures
(3)  Computer                  1,362,000       100% of foreign
     equipment                                 expenditures and
     (Purchase                                 15% of local
     and leasing)                              expenditures
(4)  Computer                    974,000       100%
     software
(5)  Refunding of                732,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                          suant to Section
     tion Advance                              2.02 (c) of this
     Facility                                  Agreement
(6)  Unallocated                 784,000
          TOTAL                6,500,000
Page  8
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the  equivalent of 
$300,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) to (4), inclusive, an account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but  after November 1, 1988.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are to: (a) increase the efficiency of DGI by 
expanding its tax inspector staff and modernizing its equipment; (b)  reevaluate and 
develop the internal and external auditing techniques and the restructuring of DGI 
training, for adaptation for the future needs of the DGI; and (c) generate data for 
budget and economic management.
     The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.
Part A:   Control of Tax Compliance
     Development of a program to monitor and increase the control of tax compliance by 
the 2,000 largest taxpayers for VAT, income and capital taxes,  including the 
development of a computerized database to be utilized jointly by  the DGI and the SH 
aimed at increased control by the DGI of the taxpayers and the provision of 
information in relation thereto.
Part B:   Inspectors and Programmers at DGI
     A program to increase the volume of annual tax inspections through the hiring and 
training of about 600 new tax inspectors and approximately 50 computer analysts and 
programmers to raise, inter alia, the number of on-site  inspections of corporate 
taxpayers.
Part C:   Training
     A program to improve DGI's training facilities, practices and resources 
including: (i) carrying out a study of the training needs of DGI and  establishing a 
program of development of DGI's internal training unit; (ii)  enhancement of DGI's 
in-house training capabilities; (iii) induction and technical training courses to new 
tax inspectors; and (iv) development and  delivery of courses to provide additional 
training and special skills to DGI staff.
Part D:   Development of Internal Auditing of DGI
     A program to strengthen the process of internal auditing of the DGI and  to 
provide for the development of procedures for internal auditing, a program  of 
training of the established internal auditing force, and the performance of auditing 
through the use of independent external auditors, including: (i) a study to select 
initial priority areas for internal auditing and, among them, units in which the pilot 
program under paragraph (iv) below shall be carried out on the organizational 
structure and auditing requirements of the DGI; (ii)  the review of existing auditing 
procedures and development of additional  auditing procedures; (iii) the training of 
existing personnel in the newly-developed auditing procedures; (iv) a six-month 
internal auditing pilot program with assistance from external auditors to be executed 
during 1989; and (v) the preparation of an auditing program for 1990 based on the 
findings of  the auditing program for 1989 referred to in item (iv) above.
Part E:   Development of Tax Inspection Techniques
     A program to develop methods of tax inspection by the DGI involving (i) the 
Page  9
acquisition of software to audit computerized corporate taxpayers; (ii) a  study to 
evaluate existing tax inspection techniques and to develop additional  ones; and (iii) 
the training of DGI officials in the use of such techniques.
Part F:   Acquisition of new Computing Equipment
     Acquisition of new computing equipment for purposes of (i) decentralized   
gathering and checking of  information; (ii) adoption of standard software  for  the 
execution of certain tasks; and (iii) provision of portable computing equipment for 
tax inspectors. The foregoing shall include the acquisition, distribution and 
installation throughout the DGI of 200 machines and a training course in computer 
application for approximately 1,000 DGI personnel.
                           *   *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1991.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each  April 1 and October 1
      beginning October 1, 1994                     325,000
      through   April 1, 2004
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of
     the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04
     and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
     The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The interest rate (ex-
                                         pressed as a percentage
                                         per annum) applicable to
                                         the balance outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
     before maturity
Page  10
More than three years but                          0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.87
     more than 13 years
     before maturity
More than 13 years before                          1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and  IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part A 
hereof, goods manufactured in Argentina may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and  2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Goods or groups of goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of  $200,000, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison  of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
     (a)  With respect to all goods procured under Part A to this Section I, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines  shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall 
be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special 
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of  the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals  from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such  contracts shall be retained 
in accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Page  11
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such  consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.   Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower shall employ consultants  for, 
inter alia,: (a) (i) coordinating the administration of the Project; (ii)  handling 
the recruitment of the new tax inspectors and programmers for DGI under Part B of the 
Project; and (iii) handling the contracting of consultants to advise in relation to 
the internal auditing of DGI and the development of DGI's internal auditing program 
under Part D of the Project; and (b) not later than  March 31, 1989, for: (i) training 
of the new tax inspectors for DGI under Part C of the Project; and (ii) handling the 
review and development of tax  inspection techniques under Part E of the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (4) inclusive set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be  financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$2,300,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special  Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do  not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of  such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
                furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special
                Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall,
                on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
                deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out of the
                Special  Account for Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits
                shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the
                respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective
                equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
                documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to  the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Page  12
Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such  procedures as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special  Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not  eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion  thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,  no further deposit by the Bank into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this  Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
