Page  1
January 3, 1990
Mr. A. Erman Gonzalez
Ministro de Economia
Ministerio de Economia
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
1310 Buenos Aires
Argentina
                  ARGENTINA: Loan 3015-AR - Tax Administration
                  Technical Assistance Project
Dear Mr. Minister:
I refer to the loan agreement for the above project between the Republic of 
Argentina (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Bank), dated March 30, 1989, (the Loan Agreement) and to your Government's 
request t(i amend the Loan Agreement set forth in Mr. Jose Sbatella's letter dated 
September 15, 1989, confirmed by Mr. Ricardo Cossio.
I am pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees to your request.  We propose 
that we now proceed in two steps: (i) declare the Loan Agreement effective with the 
amendments relating to the recruitment of the tax inspectors, the training and some 
deadlines as provided in this letter; and (ii) at a later date, separately process the 
addition of the two new subcomponents or programs under the Project, which requires a 
more complex approval process within the Bank.
With respect to (i) above, the following amendments to the Loan Agreement are 
hereby proposed:
1.
A new Section 3.08 is added, to read as follows:
 
"Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) no later than March 15, 1990, prepare a 
program satisfactory to the Batik for the training of the new tax inspectors for DGI 
under Part C of the Project; and (b) carry out such program in a manner and according 
to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank."
2.
Paragraphs (iv) and (v) of Part D of the project description in Schedule 2 to 
the Loan Agreement are amended to read as follows: "(iv) a six-month internal auditing 
pilot program with assistance from external auditors to be executed during 1990: and 
(v) the preparation of an auditing program for 1991 based on the findings of the 
auditing program for 1990 referred to in item (iv) above."
3.
Paragraph 2 of Section II of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement amended to read as 
follows:  "Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower shall employ consultants 
for, inter alia: (a) (i) coordinating the administration of the Project; (ii) handling 
the recruitment of the new tax inspectors and programmers for DGI under Part B of the 
Project; and (iii) handling the contracting of consultants to advise in relation to 
the internal auditing of DGI; (b) (i) the development of DGI's internal auditing 
program under Part D of the Project; and (ii) handling the review and development of 
tax inspection techniques under Part E of the Project."
4.
Paragraph (a) of Section 3.03 of Article III, Execution of the Project, is 
amended to read as follows: "(a) Not later than March 15, 1990, the Borrower, through 
DGI, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a list of the key indicators applicable to 
the information available within DGI and satisfactory to the Bank, to be used in 
improving DGI's internal auditing and management."
5.
The amendments set forth in this letter shall become effective on the same date 
the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
If you agree with the foregoing, please indicate so by signing and dating the 
confirmation form on the attached copy of this letter and returning it to us.
Sincerely yours,
Page  2
By /s/ Suman Bery
Acting Director, Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean
  Regional Office
Confirmed:
Republic of Argentina
By /s/ Dr. Antonio Herman Gonzalez
Authorized Representative
Date: February 26, 1990
