Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14673
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2991-HO)
JUNE 26, 1995
Natural Resources and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department II
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit - Lempira (Lps.)
Exchange Rates:    At appraisal: US$1 = Lps. 2
On Loan Closing, June 30, 1994: US$1 = Lps. 8.5
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Weights and Measures
I hectare (ha) = 10,000 mn
1 metric ton (mt) = 1,000 kg
1 kilometer   =  1,000 m
3
1 Mm3         =  1.0 million m
1 m3          =  1,000 liters
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONONYMS
AGSAC                  Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
AMIL                   Agricultural Modernization Law
BANADESA               Banco Nacional de Desarrollo Agricola
(National Agricultural Development Bank)
BCH                    Banco Central de Honduras
(Central Bank of Honduras)
CPI                    Consumer Price Index
FACACH                 Federacion de Cooperativas de Ahorro y Credito de
Honduras
(Federation of Savings and Loans Cooperatives of Honduras)
FIs                    Financial intermediaries
FONDEPRO               Fondo de Desarrollo Productivo
(Production Development Fund)
IDB                    Inter-American Development Bank
PCR                    Project Completion Report
SAL                    Structural Adjustment Loan
SAR                    Staff Appraisal Report
SRN                    Secretaria de Recursos Naturales
(Secretariat of Natural Resources)
UPCA                   Unidad de Programacion de Credito Agropecuario
(Agricultural Credit Programming Unit)
USAID                  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE3 ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 26, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE P'2ESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Honduras
Fourth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2991-HO)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Honduras-Fourth
Agricultural Credit project (Loan 2991-HO, approved in FY89), prepared by the Latin America
and The Caribbean Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The principal objective of the project was to improve the agricultural credit
delivery system. This was to be done by a) rationalizing rediscount and on-lending interest rates,
b) making the availability of refinance to participating financial institutions dependent on their
achievement of defined performance standards, c) promoting innovative ways of channeling more
credit to low income farmers, and d) encouraging the development of private extension services.
For this project, the production, income and export objectives that dominated five previous
livestock and agriculture credit operations were subordinated to institutional reform. These
earlier projects had all been rated as satisfactory, and the project unit in the Central Bank of
Honduras (CBH) was considered at appraisal to be an effective manager of the lending and the
associated farm technical assistance programs.
The PCR discusses the project's uneven performance in reaching its institutional
objectives. Interest rates were unified across donor-supported programs, but failed to cover
inflation during the two years of highest disbursements. Performance standards were introduced,
but proved to be less effective than anticipated. Attempts to increase the flow of funds to small
farmers were unsuccessful, largely because the parastatal agricultural bank was disqualified on
performance grounds and the pilot operation with the Federation of Savings and Loan
Cooperatives was canceled. The private extension component was also dropped. However,
production objectives were achieved. There was excess demand for term-credit and the supply
was exhausted within two years. The re-estimated financial rates of return in the PCR are
acceptable. On balance, project outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory.
The Region does not propose a follow-on operation. The PCR anticipates that in
the absence of further donor support the application of performance criteria and some of the
other institutional gains will lapse, along with CBH's rediscount facility for term-lending. Thus,
institutional development is rated as modest and sustainability of the program as unlikely. The
quality of the PCR is satisfactory.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






HONDURAS                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2991-HO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface                                                                                                               i
Evaluation Summary .............................................................                                      iii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW  FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .......... .............   1
1. Project Identity                                               .I
2.        Background ...........................................1
3.   Project Objectives and Description                                        .2
4.        Project Design and Organization                                                                  3
5.         Project Implementation                                                                          4
A.        Variances between planned and actual project implementation                            4
B.        Factors and decisions affecting project implementation ......... .....  5
C.        Other irnplementation issues ...................................................      6
D.        Projectrisks ...................................................6
6.    Project Results . ..................................................                                 7
7.        Project Sustainability ..................................................9
8.        Bank Performance                       .................................................. 9
9.        Borrower Performance               .......................       ...........................    11
10.       Project Relationship ..................................................   11
11.       Project Documentation and Data ..................................................                11
12.       Lessons Learned ..................................................   11
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ...........  15
PART  III - STATISTICAL  DATA                             ........................................................    21
Table 1.             Related Bank Loans ....................................  21
Table 2.             Project Timetable ....................................  22
Table 3.             Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements    ......................  24
Table 4.             Project Costs ....................................  25
Table 5.             Project Financing ....................................  26
Table 6.             Allocation of Loan Proceeds ...............                  .....................  27
Table 7.             Financial Rate of Retum  ...........                .........................         28
Table 8.             Special Studies ....................................  29
Table 9.             Training Subcomponent 1992-1994 ....................................                  30
Table 10.            Compliance with Legal Covenants ................................... .  32
Table 11.            Use of Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ....................................              35
Table 12.            Adjustments to BCH  Rediscount Rates ....................................   37
Table 13.            Financial Intennediaries Participating in the Project .............. ..... 38
Table 14.            Commercial Banks Economic Leverage Indicators ............... .....  39
Map IBRD16747R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2991-HO)
PREFACE
1.    This document is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fourth Agricultural
Credit Project (Loan No. 2991-HO). The Loan and Project Agreements were signed on
November 21, 1988. The Loan was fully disbursed; the last disbursement was made on
July 1, 1994.
2.    The PCR was prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Region, Country
Department 2, Natural Resources and Rural Poverty Division, with the assistance of an outside
consultant. Preparation of this PCR was based on project files and data provided by the
Borrower. Project papers reviewed include the Staff Appraisal Report and the Memorandum
of the President dated August 22, 1988, the Loan and Project Agreements, supervision reports,
correspondence with the Borrower and internal Bank memoranda on the complete project
cycle. Other documents reviewed include the Project Completion Reports of the Third
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2884-HO), the Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 2990-HO),
and the Second Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan 3257-HO); the Memorandum of the
President of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2540-HO); and Honduras' Country
Economic Memorandum (August 5, 1994).
3.    The PCR mission took place in June 1994. Accordingly, this report was prepared
following the "Guidelines for Preparing Project Completion Reports," of June 1989.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2991-HO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    The Fourth Agricultural Credit Project, which disbursed from June 29, 1990
through July 1, 1994, was the last of a series of six World Bank (the Bank) projects for
agricultural credit in Honduras. Through this project, the Bank provided US$25 million
equivalent to the Government of Honduras (GOH) to support the agricultural credit system.
The project was administered by the Unidad de Credito Agropecuario (UPCA) of the
Central Bank of Honduras (BCH), which in 1993 became the Fondo de Desarrollo
Productivo (FONDEPRO).
2.    Project objectives and description (paras. 8-10). The project's primary objective
was to improve the agricultural credit delivery system by: (a) defining and implementing a
program to rationalize rediscount and on-lending interest rates and margins for agricultural
credit; (b) imposing monitorable and enforceable performance criteria for financial
intermediaries (FIs) to participate in the project; (c) identifying and promoting innovative
forms of channeling more credit to low-income farmers; and (d) simplifying lending
procedures to decrease transaction costs. The project also sought to increase agricultural
growth, farmer incomes, and export earnings by facilitating the adoption of modern
technologies consistent with increased efficiency, crop diversification and soil conservation.
3.   In its original design, the project included the following components: (a) a general
line of credit to channel funds to farmers for agricultural investments and short-termn capital
through commercial banks, the Government's Agricultural Credit Bank (BANADESA), and
the Federacion de Cooperativas de Ahorro y Credito de Honduras (FACACH); (b) free
extension services for low- to medium-income farmers consistent with increased efficiency,
crop diversification and soil conservation and the development of private technical
assistance units, through UPCA/FONDEPRO; (c) training for UPCA/ FONDEPRO staff
and agricultural loan officers of participating FIs; and (d) special studies to identify and
promote innovative ways to increase credit flows to low-income farmers.
4.    Project design (paras.11-19). Compared to the previous five operations (two
livestock and three agricultural credit projects), the project concept was very innovative. It
included eligibility criteria to qualify Fls for project participation (the economic leverage of
the FIs and their recovery rates on the share of their portfolios rediscounted with
UPCA/FONDEPRO), required that rediscount rates reflect the marginal cost of funds of
commercial banks, and introduced a pilot component to channel project funds through
savings and credit cooperatives.
5.    Project implementation (paras. 20-35). Implementation of the credit component
for rediscounting commercial bank loans to agricultural producers and the training
component was very close to appraisal estimates. However, project studies were delayed,



iv
the technical assistance component was not implemented and the FACACH component was
formally canceled.
Project results (paras. 36-47)
6.    The project closed fully disbursed on July 1, 1994, two years after originally
scheduled. The credit component (98 percent of Loan funds) disbursed fast and largely at
negative interest rates. Financing to small-scale farmers (US$4.6 million or 18 percent of
the Loan) fell short of appraisal targets (28 percent) due to the cancellation of the FACACH
component and the reallocation of funds (US$2.5 million) mostly to the financing of
medium- and large-scale farmers (US$19.9 million--80 percent of Loan funds, compared to
68 percent estimated at appraisal). The remaining US$0.5 of Loan funds (2 percent,
compared to 4 percent at appraisal) financed training and studies.
7.    Achievement of project objectives (paras. 39-40). Overall achievement of the
project objectives was partially satisfactory. The main project objective of improving the
agricultural credit delivery system through a rationalization of rediscount and on-lending
rates, and the unification of all BCH rediscount lines for agriculture was achieved.
However, the project's eligibility criteria were only partially successful, primarily because
of lack of transparency in the banking system. A major contribution of the credit
component, although not an explicit objective, was to provide much needed long-term funds
to finance investments in agriculture.
8.    Three of the five project studies were successfully completed and progress is being
currently made to implement the resulting recommendations. Two other studies that sought
improvements in the agricultural credit delivery system were not carried out with project
funds.
9.    Project activities designed to increase agricultural growth, farmer incomes, and
export earnings by facilitating the adoption of modern technologies were not carried out,
although the investments financed under the credit component likely had a positive impact.
Most financial rates of return estimated at project completion exceed appraisal estimates.
10.   Project sustainability (paras. 41-42) is uncertain and unlikely. First, BCH is likely
to discontinue the use of the project's financial indicators to qualify FIs for FONDEPRO's
rediscounts. Second, it is uncertain that BCH will resume making adjustments to its
discount rates (interrupted in May 1994) according to the agreed formula to reflect the cost
of funds of commercial banks.
11.   Finally, the project's contribution to agriculture investment financing through the
banking system is also uncertain. FONDEPRO estimates that revolving funds from this and
the Bank's previous five credit projects would be exhausted in two years once it starts
amortizing this Loan. Consequently, without additional donor funding, the BCH
agricultural credit rediscount window is likely to close soon.
12.   Bank performance (paras. 43-46). Bank performance during project preparation
and appraisal was marginally satisfactory, primarily because the Bank failed to address



v
thoroughly the Borrower's concerns about the design of the project. Bank performance
during project implementation was deficient. Despite implementation problems, which
meant that continuity of Bank supervision would have been especially important, task
managers were changed four times during the four years of project implementation. In
addition, Bank supervision resources were inadequate.
13.   Borrower's performance (para. 47). The performance of the Borrower and the
executing agency was generally satisfactory, except for failing to inform the Bank promptly
of the inability to implement the FACACH component, submitting withdrawal applications
in excess of the amounts available in the applicable disbursement categories, and delaying
implementation of project studies.
Lessons Learned (paras. 50-58)
14.   Project objectives. Through this project, the Bank made a positive contribution to
modest improvements in the agricultural delivery system and provided much needed long-
term funds for agricultural investment finance. Nevertheless, the project's primary
objective of improving the agricultural credit delivery system, while understandable, was
perhaps too ambitious. The project may have reduced the distortions that derive from
inadequate macroeconomic management. However, it could not have foreseen nor
prevented disintermediation toward financial affiliates of banks or the banks' growth
through off-balance sheet operations, which increase the risks and compromise the
soundness and stability of the financial system.
15.   The main lesson is that a sector-specific credit project, like this one for agricultural
credit, is a weak instrument for addressing problems of financial intermediation in a
subsector when the overall banking system is unsound. Therefore, to address such
problems, instead of this type of project, which basically rediscounted credit for agriculture,
a more global financial sector operation may be more appropriate.
16.   Eligibility criteria. The eligibility indicators originally selected to evaluate financial
institutions could have been improved during project implementation, based on the 1989
international standards recommended by the Basle Committee Accord, the issues raised by
UPCA/FONDEPRO and the Superintendency of Banks, the introduction of the SAL II risk-
adjusted capital adequacy ratio, and developments in the Honduran financial system that
made the economic leverage ratio lose significance as a bank solvency indicator. The
lesson is that as the local and external environments evolve, especially when there are long
delays between project appraisal and Loan effectiveness, the Bank should be particularly
attuned to Government concerns about the continued usefulness of the agreed project
indicators.
17.   Bank supervision. Although quick disbursements provided liquidity to Honduras,
they discouraged adequate Bank supervision once most of the Loan was disbursed, but
while other important components were still to be carried out. The lesson is that where the
great majority of disbursements are for something like a credit component, annual
disbursements should be limited to a percentage of the Loan amount, or the Bank should be



vi
disciplined enough to continue adequate supervision of aspects related to the original project
objectives, even though most disbursements have taken place.
18.   Pilot component. The pilot component for FACACH-affiiated cooperatives was
canceled. The Bank had envisioned this component as a very innovative way to increase
financing for low-income producers, despite repeated claims from BCH that it was not
feasible to rediscount subloans of nonbank FIs, such as credit unions or cooperatives.
19.   The lesson is two-fold. First, the Bank should pay closer attention to the concerns of
the executing agency and the Borrower. If this had been done, the FACACH component
would have been excluded from the project. However, the second lesson is that once the
pilot component was included and the Loan closing date extended for this purpose, the Bank
should have insisted on letting at least the few eligible cooperatives have access to project
funds. This would have yielded some insights on the pilot experience and the use of
nonbank FIs for funding agricultural projects while BCH risk exposure would have been
very limited.
20.   The experience with this component is very relevant to the Bank's current interest
in rural finance operations through nonbank FIs. Such operations should incorporate into
their design provisions for supervision and regulation of such intermnediaries, inter alia, to
ensure the soundness and stability of the financial system. Moreover, the Bank should not
support projects with nonbank FIs if it cannot protect the Borrower from assuming all the
credit risk of these FIs. In the case of commercial banks, one way to provide such
protection is through mandatory legal reserve deposits where they exist, or through other
commercial bank accounts at the central bank, which effectively serve as a collateral on
rediscounts. Similarly, mechanisms to minimize the Borrower's assumption of credit risk
of nonbank intermediaries subloans would need to be developed, if these are to participate
in Bank-supported projects.
21.   Technical assistance. The technical assistance component for low-income farmers was
not carried out because of the premature dismantling of the UPCA/FONDEPRO technical
unit following the advice of a Bank supervision mission, based on the expectation of
compliance with the conditions of another, more recent Loan. The lesson is two-fold. First,
Bank projects should address the impact of their conditionality on other related projects. The
SAL II condition to eliminate directed credit lines, if complied with, would have hampered the
execution of this project. Second, Bank supervision missions should not dismiss project
components or activities without prior internal consultation with regard to conditionality of other
related Bank projects.
22.   With regard to the private technical assistance subcomponent aborted because of
free, similar services provided by the Secretariat of Natural Resources, the lesson is that the
privatization of services can only occur when all services are private, or when remaining
public services are well targeted. In future operations, the Bank should include such
components only when Government has established an agricultural extension policy to
privatize the provision of technical assistance services and/or to target them to specific
groups.



PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE
1. PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name:     Fourth Agricultural Credit Project
Loan No.:         299 1-HOf
RVP Unit:         Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country:          Honduras
Sector:           Agriculture
Subsector:        Agricultural Credit
2. BACKGROUIND
1.    Agriculture is the most important sector of the Honduran economy. It employs over
50 percent of the labor force, accounts for over 20 percent of GDP, and generates over 80
percent of export earnings. During the 1980s, agriculture grew at an annual rate of 2.9
percent. Real exchange rate overvaluation, tariff protection and government intervention in
agriculture product and factor markets affected the sector.
2.    With the support of two other World Bank projects, the Structural Adjustment Loan
I (SAL I, Loan 2990-HO, approved in FY89) and the Second Structural Adjustment Loan
and Credit (Ln. 3257-HO and Cr. 2208-HO, approved in FY91), the Government of
Honduras (GOH) gradually liberalized agricultural prices and eliminated quantitative
controls on imports of basic grains. These measures contributed to improved real
agricultural prices, increased sector growth to almost 5 percent per year, and modest
improvements in farm household income in the early 1990s.
3.    More recently, however, agricultural growth has experienced a sharp decline. In
1993, agricultural growth fell to 1 percent due to unfavorable weather and reduced price
incentives stemming from inconsistencies in exchange rate and trade policy implementation.
Tropical Storm Gert lowered production of bananas, coffee and basic grains. A lower
production and the drop in international prices of bananas and coffee--the country's main
export products--affected the sector's exports.
4.    The financial system is characterized by the presence of strong links between
financial and other influential groups who are the owners of commercial banks and their
affiliate finance companies. In addition, banking laws overly protect the rights of financial
intermediaries (FIs) relative to those of the general public. Long-term finance is very
scarce, and capital investments and development projects depend on internal finance and on
limited Government and donor funding.
5.    During the past few years, with the support of this Loan and SAL II, GOH
undertook several reforms aimed at improving the efficiency and competitiveness of the
financial sector. It liberalized interest rates, eliminated portfolio restrictions, engaged in the
gradual unification of Central Bank rediscount rates, and increased rediscount rates to levels
closer to the cost of funds of commercial banks.



2
6.    These reforns, however, have had a disappointing impact as remaining distortions
continue to affect the development of a sound financial sector. Government interventions
have been primarily through excessively high reserve requirements on commercial bank
deposits to control domestic liquidity and finance the fiscal deficit at low or zero interest
rates. Commercial banks have reacted to increasing reserve ratios by attracting deposits
through their affiliate finance companies, which are not subject to reserve requirements or
to the regulations and supervision standards applied to commercial banks. In addition,
banks have grown through off-balance sheet transactions, reducing the transparency of their
operations and the effectiveness of bank regulation and supervision.
7.    Finally, GOH still controls rediscount margins on agricultural loans, effectively
imposing a ceiling on on-lending interest rates of Government funds for agricultural
production.
3. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
8.    The project provided US$25 million equivalent to the GOH to support the
agricultural credit system. This was the sixth of a series of Bank projects for agricultural
credit in Honduras (two livestock and the agricultural credit projects totaling US$98
million), all administered by the Unidad de Credito Agropecuario (UPCA) of the Central
Bank of Honduras (BCH), which in 1993 became the Fondo de Desarrollo Productivo
(FONDEPRO).
9.    The project's primary objective was to improve the agricultural credit delivery
system by: (a) defining and implementing a program to rationalize rediscount and on-
lending rates and margins for agricultural credit; (b) imposing monitorable and enforceable
performance criteria for FIs to participate in the project; (c) identifying and promoting
innovative forms of channeling credit to low-income farmers; and (d) simplifying lending
procedures to decrease transaction costs. The project also sought to increase agricultural
growth, farmer incomes, and export earnings by facilitating the adoption of modern
technologies.
10.   In its original design, the project included the following components: (a) a general
line of credit to channel funds to farmers for agricultural investments and short-term capital
through commercial banks, the Government's Agricultural Bank (BANADESA), and the
Federaci6n de Cooperativas de Ahorro y Credito de Honduras (FACACH); (b) free
extension services for low- to medium-income farmers consistent with increased efficiency,
crop diversification and soil conservation, and the development of private technical
assistance units, through UPCA/FONDEPRO; (c) training for UPCA/FONDEPRO staff and
agricultural loan officers of participating FIs; and (d) special studies to identify and promote
innovative ways to increase credit flows to low-income farmers.
For a current review of the Honduras financial sector, see A. Camacho, "The Performance of Financial Institutions
under the World Bank's Honduras Fourth Agricultural Credit Project, October 1994," and LA2NR, PCR Working
Paper, November 1994, in the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project files at LAC ISC.



3
4. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
11.   This project was designed as a bridge loan between the Third Agricultural Credit
Project (closed in 1987) and two proposed operations, the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Credit (AGSAC, Cr. 2540-HO, approved in FY94) and a financial sector adjustment
operation, which was later merged with the SAL II.
12.   Compared to the previous five operations, the project concept was very innovative.
It included eligibility criteria to qualify FIs for participation (i.e., the economic leverage of
the FIs and their recovery rates on the share of their portfolio rediscounted with
UPCA/FONDEPRO), 2 required that rediscount rates reflect the marginal cost of funds of
commercial banks, and introduced a pilot component to channel project funds through
savings and credit cooperatives.
13.   Economic leverage. At the time of project preparation, the financial system was weak
and fragile. Reserves against portfolio losses did not reflect the risks derived from concentration
of credit portfolios in the hands of related financial and other influential groups. Capital
standards were weak and a minimum capital requirement appeared to be the main regulation in
this area. Therefore, a key criterion to qualify participating FIs was their solvency,
measured by their economic leverage coefficient: the ratio of debt (including contingent
liabilities) to estimated economic net worth.3 The project required commercial banks to
maintain an economic leverage coefficient no greater than 35 to qualify during the first
year, with gradual reductions to reach 23 in the final year (Part m, Table 14, page 1).
14.   Recovery rates. Another qualifying criterion was the recovery rate for the share of
the portfolio that FIs rediscounted with UPCA/FONDEPRO. The project defined the
recovery rates coefficient as the ratio of payments received to payments due, but only for
the UPCA/FONDEPRO portfolio. To qualify, FIs had to recover at least 65 percent of
payments due during the first year of the project, with gradual increases to 79 percent in
the final year (Part m, Table 14, page 2).
15.   Interest rates. Together with SAL I (which the Board approved together with this
Loan on September 15, 1988), the project called for a methodology to review and adjust
periodically the BCH rediscount rate to the marginal cost of borrowing funds. This
methodology intended to ensure that resources would be available to participating
institutions at their marginal cost of funds. The project also restricted participating FIs from
imposing surcharges or compensating balances on subloans, limiting the ability of commercial
banks to increase the effective interest rate on subloans.
16.   Pilot. The project made available US$2.5 million to FACACH. Eligible
cooperatives could rediscount their subloans with BCH. FACACH was not financially
sound and was receiving technical assistance from the United States Agency for
2 For a full discussion of these two financial indicators, see A. Camacho, op. cit.
3  Economic net worth was defined as accounting net worth minus net estimated loan losses. In turn, net estitod
losses were calculated as estimated losses minus prvisions against losses, minus net benefits.



4
International Development (USAID), which the Bank thought would turn FACACH into a
sound institution.
17.   A major drawback in the design of this pilot component was a disregard for BCH's
concerns about rediscounting credit from nonbank Fls. BCH was hesitant because savings
and credit cooperatives do not maintain reserve deposits at BCH, which can serve as partial
guarantee for loan advances, nor are they supervised or regulated by the Superintendency of
Banks.
18.   Other features. The proposed provision of extension services for low-income
producers through mass media techniques, and the development of private technical
assistance units, were also innovative. The Bank, however, did not assess adequately the
feasibility of implementing these programs (para. 35).
19.   The project also supported a study included, but not carried out, in the previous
operation (Third Agricultural Credit Project, Loan 2284-HO) to identify constraints in
access to formal credit imposed by mortgage and chattel mortgage laws. It also
contemplated studies on informal rural finance and transaction costs of formal Fls.
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
20.   The Loan became effective in June 1990, 19 months after GOH and the Bank signed
the legal documents, and 16 months after originally scheduled. Compliance with
effectiveness conditions was slow, mainly because Honduras had been in arrears status with
the Bank since December 1988.
21.   UPCA/FONDEPRO's implementation of the credit component for rediscounting
commercial bank loans to agricultural producers and the training program was very close to
appraisal estimates. However, other project components were delayed, not implemented or
formaUly canceled.
A.   Variances between planned and actual project implementation
22.   The most critical variances between planned and actual implementation were:
(a)   The inability of GOH to implement the pilot credit component with FACACH-
affiliated cooperatives. The Bank had envisioned this component as an innovative
way to increase financing for low-income producers. However, despite the efforts
of several supervision missions to work with GOH to develop effective ways to
implement the component as designed, and a first one-year extension of the Loan
closing date, the Borrower requested that the Bank amend the Loan Agreement to
drop the component and reallocate the funds largely to finance subloans of medium-
and large-scale producers (paras. 24-26). This was done in June, 1993.
(b)   The impracticality of implementing the private technical assistance component, as
the Secretariat of Natural Resources (SRN) provided these services free of charge to
medium- and large-scale producers.



5
B. Factors and decisions affecting project implementation
23.   A factor that adversely affected project implementation was that delays in declaring
the Loan effective caused 45 percent of the Loan proceeds to disburse immediately after
effectiveness, and 67 percent by the end of the first year of implementation. The country's
balance of payments pressures and the need to increase foreign exchange availability may
have contributed to the rapid disbursement pace. In turn, quick disbursements resulted in a
lower supervision effort by the Bank, although other important, albeit less costly,
components were still to be carried out. Other factors and decisions that affected project
implementation follow.
24.   FACACH component. BCH's reservations about rediscounting FACACH loans
continued during project implementation. In June 1992, however, UPCA/FONDEPRO
informed the Bank that it would be ready to start implementation of the component in
August 1992. The Loan closing date was extended from June 30, 1992 to June 30, 1993,
primarily to allow time for implementation of the pilot component.
25.   UPCA/FONDEPRO later concluded that only a few of the eligible cooperatives had
demand for Loan funds and that implementation should not start, but it failed to inform the
Bank promptly. Instead, it presented for reimbursement subloans to larger producers --a
subcomponent of the Loan that had already been fully disbursed (para. 36), in the hope of
using up all Loan credit funds, including those allocated to FACACH.
26.   The Borrower later requested the cancellation of the FACACH component and to
reallocate those funds to cover the overdraft caused by the above mentioned reimbursement.
The Bank agreed to this request despite improvements in the financial condition of a few
member cooperatives because it considered that FACACH was still financially weak.
27.   Extension services. An action that could have been avoided was the rapid
dismantling of the UPCA/FONDEPRO technical unit on the advice of a March 1991 Bank
supervision mission. The mission recommended the elimination of this unit in anticipation
of compliance with the SAL II condition of eliminating BCH directed credit lines.
However, this SAL II condition "was not viable because it would have caused the Central
Bank to seek repayment of all existing credit lines financed through its own resources. It
was subsequently reinterpreted to mean the elimination of the interest rate subsidy on
directed credit lines..." (para. 51, SAL II PCR, dated June 24, 1994).
28.   The elimination of this technical unit prevented the implementation of the extension
services subcomponent for low-income farmers, which had been considered important
because the SRN extension services served large farmers only. In fact, the technical unit
was performing satisfactorily. Bank staff, BCH and commercial banks considered it a good
complement to BCH's agricultural credit operations.
29.   The Loan Agreement required that each participating FI maintain an adequate
agricultural unit. The PCR mission found important differences in the technical capabilities of
the agricultural credit units of participating banks. In particular, intensified competition for
qualified personnel from new banks has negatively affected the technical units of participating



6
FIs. However, in no case did this consideration disqualify a bank, perhaps because Bank
supervision missions had not made compliance with this requirement a critical concern.
30.   Special studies. Severe delays in hiring consulting firms to carry out the special
studies also affected project implementation. Despite having agreed on the terms of
reference for the studies during Loan negotiations, GOH failed to act promptly on obtaining
consulting services. BCH was reluctant to use Bank funds to undertake studies in the rural
financial sector because, since 1990, USAID had embarked in a number of studies in rural
finance in areas similar to those first proposed under the project.4 As a result, GOH and
the Bank agreed that some studies were no longer needed. Late during project
implementation, GOH and the Bank agreed to replace them with more pertinent studies but
still focused on improving financial sector services to the rural population (Part III, Table
8).
31.   Because of the above mentioned delays in executing the studies, the Loan required a
second twelve-month extension of the Closing Date to complete the hiring process and
conduci the studies. To ensure the positive impact of project studies, GOH and the Bank
agreed to include the implementation of the consultants' recommendations in the tranche
release conditions of the current AGSAC.
C. Other implementation issues
32.   In addition to the issues discussed above, UPCA and the Superintendency of Banks
often criticized the economic leverage ratio as a criterion to qualify FIs for project
participation. Prior to effectiveness, UPCA communicated to the Bank its disagreement on
applying a uniform percentage of loan losses to estimate the economic net worth of all
commercial banks. Later, the Superintendency of Banks also commented to a supervision
mission that the economic leverage indicator was an unorthodox formula that had not
prevented any bank from participating in the project, although some banks had been known
to have serious solvency problems. The Bank took no measures in this respect.
33.   Another important action related to this indicator was that SAL II which, inter alia,
intended to strengthen the commercial banking system, introduced a different indicator to
measure solvency: a capital adequacy ratio based on risk assets--an internationally accepted
standard. This made the economic leverage indicator less suitable as a measure of bank
solvency.
D. Project risks
34.   Except for the nsk of insufficient demand for project funds, the other project risks
identified in the SAR were realistic. In retrospect, the risk that there might have been
insufficient demand for project funds seems unjustified since, despite bringing agriculture
4 USAID carried out these studies to support to the preparation of a comprehensive bill entitled
"Modernization and Development of the Agricultural Sector," (the Agricultural Modernization Law,
approved by Congress in April 1992).



7
on-lending interest rates closer to market rates, the project provided long-terrn financing
opportunities for agricultural investment which would have otherwise not existed.
35.    Also in retrospect, the Bank appraisal team could have better assessed the risk of
implementing the private technical assistance subcomponent. GOH was, and still is,
providing extension services to medium and large farmners at no charge, so limiting the
incentive for developing private extension services units to serve this clientele.
6. PROJECT RESULTS
36.    The Loan closed fully disbursed on July 1, 1994, two years after originally
scheduled. Actual project costs were about 11 percent higher than estimated at appraisal,
mainly due to reallocations of funds to large-scale farmers (Part m, Tables 4-6). In
addition, one large reallocation of funds to disbursement Category 2 ("Subloans to Other
Beneficiaries") became necessary on account of an o\ersight on the part of the Bank that
allowed that disbursement category to overdraw by US$1.9 million (10 percent).
37.   The project channeled US$4.6 nillion (18 percent of Loan funds, compared to 28
percent estimated at appraisal) to small-scale farmers,5 and US$19.9 million (80 percent,
compared to 68 percent estimated at appraisal) to other beneficiaries through the banking
system (Part Im, Table 6). The remaining US$0.5 million (2 percent, compared to 4 percent
at appraisal) of Loan funds ftnanced training and studies (Part Im, Tables 8-9).
38.    The credit line (98 percent of the Loan) disbursed fast, and largely at negative real
interest rates. The methodology to ensure that agricultural producers received credit at market
rates was not developed until late 1990 under SAL II. 6The Bank agreed instead to disburse
against subloans paying at least a 16 percent interest rate. About 45 percent (US$11 million) of
the Loan credit funds disbursed within two months of the June 1990 Loan effectiveness, for
subloans at 16 percent while the average change in the consumer price index (CPI) was 25
percent (Part III, Table 12). About another 20 percent of the credit line disbursed by the end of
the first year of the project (June 1991), for subloans at 25 percent while the average change in
the CPI was 34 percent. By the end of the second year (June 1992), when interest rates tumed
positive, the line of credit had been almost fully disbursed, except for US$2.5 million earnarked
for the FACACH cooperatives.
39.    Achievement of Project Objectives. Overall achievement of the project objectives
was partially satisfactory:
5 This is because BANADESA qualified for project participation only one year. Its subsequent
disqualification left many small-agricultural producers unserved by the project. However, by any measure,
at the time BANADESA was not an adequate intermediary to access project futnds. BANADESA is now
under a process of restructuring, but its future is still uncertain.
6  Both this project and the SAL II required that BCH rediscount rates reflect the marginal cost of borrowing
funds of commercial banks. In practice. it is impossible to determine the marginal cost of fumds because
the information required to do so is not available at any given point in time. Instead, the SAL nI formula
provides an estimate of the average cost of borrowed funds during the three months previous to the date of
revision. Moreover, because the rediscount rate is based on the previous three-month average borrowing
rates, the formula could not prevent the use of negative discount and/or on-lending interest rates.



8
(a)   The main objective of improving the agricultural credit delivery system through a
rationalization of rediscount and on-lending rates and the unification of all BCH
rediscount lines for agriculture was achieved. Although delayed, in late 1990 BCH
adopted the SAL II formula to set the rediscount and on-lending interest rates. In
February, 1991, BCH unified all its agricultural credit lines under UPCA (small
coffee producers, irrigation development, land purchasing, and strengthening of
small farmers' organizations) and BCH's Divisi6n de Credito y Valores (USAID
non-traditional export development line and other USAID credit lines for agriculture
production, and BCH's basic grains).
(b)   The project's eligibility criteria were only partially successful. For example,
although the loan recovery ratio helped disqualify several banks with poor loan
collection records of project subloans, the economic leverage indicator could not
prevent the participation of unsound financial institutions, primarily because of a
lack of transparency in the banking system Part m, Table 14).
(c)   Three of the five project studies were successfully completed and progress is being
currently made to implement the resulting recommendations. Two other studies that
sought improvements in the agricultural credit delivery system were not carried out
with project funds (Part HI, Table 8).
(d)   Project activities designed to increase agricultural growth, farmer incomes, and
export earnings by facilitating the adoption of modern technologies were not carried
out, although the investments financed under the credit component generally had a
positive impact. Most financial rates of return estimated at project completion
exceed appraisal estimates for indicative farm models of banana, cacao and dual
purpose livestock, but are slightly below appraisal estimates for citrus farms (Part
Im, Table 7).
(e)   A major contribution of the credit component, although not an explicit objective,
was to provide much needed long-termn funds to finance investments in agriculture.
In Honduras, investors prefer short-termn savings in local and foreign currency
mostly to protect their capital from inflation surges and exchange rate fluctuations.
On the other hand, the availability of BCH's long-term rediscount options and high
reserve requirements discourage commercial banks from actively mobilizing long-
term resources. Consequently, medium- and long-term financing is very scarce, and
a significant percentage of recent agricultural investment would not have been financed
without the project.
40.   Table I on page 10 summarizes the various degrees of accomplishment of these
objectives and the likelihood of their sustainability.
7. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
41.   Project sustainability is uncertain and unlikely. First, BCH is likely to discontinue
the use of the project's financial indicators to qualify FIs for FONDEPRO's rediscounts.
Second, it is uncertain that BCH will resume making adjustments to its discount rates



9
according to the agreed formula to reflect the cost of funds of commercial banks, which it
interrupted in March 1994 (Table 1).
42.   Finally, the project's contribution to agriculture investment financing through the
banking system is also uncertain. This was the last of a series of Bank loans for agricultural
credit, totaling US$123 million, channeled through the BCH agricultural credit unit. The
BCH through UPCA/FONDEPRO has assumed amortization, and the foreign exchange risk,
of this and all previous Bank livestock and agricultural credit loans. FONDEPRO estimates
that revolving funds from the Bank credit projects would be exhausted in two years.7
Consequently, without additional donor funding, the BCH agricultural credit rediscount
window is likely to close soon.
8. BANK PERFORMANCE
43.   Baank performance during project preparation and appraisal was marginally
satisfactory, primarily because the Bank failed to address thoroughly the Borrower's
concerns about the design of the project. For example, it did not take into consideration
BCH's concerns about the inclusion of the FACACH credit component and did not
adequately assess the viability of the technical assistance component.
44.   Bank performance during project implementation was deficient. Despite the
implementation problems, which meant that continuity of Bank supervision would have
been especially important, task managers were changed four times during the four years of
project implementation, and on several occasions the Bank relied on short-term consultants
to carry out supervision missions. Several missions were also combined with the
preparation of other projects which was likely to divert the attention of mission members to
what is often perceived as the more important task of project preparation.
45.   Bank supervision resources were also inadequate, which was likely due to the rapid
disbursement of the main project component (the line of credit) during the first year of
implenientation. A total of 20 staff weeks were spent on supervision during the first two
years when 90 percent of the Loan was disbursed. Supervision missions were generally
short and supervision time averaged only about eight staff weeks per year.
46.   Better coordination between the Bank's Loan Department ar I the Country
Operations Division supervising the project could have prevented an overdraft and the
subsequent reallocation of Loan funds to finance subloans for medium- and large-scale
farmers (para. 36).
With the depreciation of the Lempira from Lps. 2 per US$1 to Lps. 9 per US$1, FONDEPRO's capital,
adjusted to cover foreign exchange losses, is already highly negative.
8 FONDEPRO could disappear even sooner because a multisectoral project from the Inter-American
Development Bank (loan 718/OC-HO, for US$60 million approved in December 1992, but not signed as
of March, 1995) conditions disbursements to the auctioning of all BCH rediscount funds, in which case
directed credit through BCH rediscounts is also likely to disappear.



10
Table 1. Accomplishment of Project Objectives and Sustainability
Degree of
Accomplishment
Project Objectives            During the         Sustainability                       Comments
Project Period
1. Improve the agricultural
delivery system by:
(a) defining and implementing a       Satisfactory        Uncertain        A program to rationalize rediscount and on-lending
program to rationalize rediscount                                          interest rates and margins for agricultural credit
and on-lending rates and margins for                                       was implemented following an agreement reached
agricultural credit                                                        under the SAL 11 in June 1990. Based on this
agreement, rediscount rates were revised quarterly
and adjusted as necessary to reflect the average
cost of funds of commercial banks. However,
BCH did not adjust the rediscount rates in March
1994 (as called for by the application of the SAL 11
formula), and by June 1994, agricultural on-
lending rates were falling behind market rates.
Moreover, although the application of the formula
may not have prevented it (see footnote 6, page 7),
agricultural on-lending rates were also falling
behind inflation.
...... ......  ......  ...............................  ...........................................................................................................................................................:...................
(b) imposing monitorable and           Mixed              Unlikely         Only Fls with acceptable levels of economic
enforceable performance criteria for                                       leverage and recovery rates participated in the
Fls to participate in the project                                          project. However, the adequacy of the two
indicators is questionable, and their use is likely to
.............                  ...be    discontinued                                        . ....................................... ... ....be.discont.ued
(c) identifying and promoting          Mixed               Uncertain       A study was carried out to identify and promote
innovative forms of channeling more                                        innovative forms of channeling more credit to small
credit to low-income farmers                                               farmers. The main recommendation of study is to
set up a complementary guarantee fund.
FONDEPRO has not been able to obtain seed
capital for this venture. Moreover, the Bank
disagrees with the study's recommendations as
guarantee funds are subject to moral hazard on the
part of both lender and borrowers, and have not
proved an efficient mechanism to increase formal
lending to low-income farmers with little or no
collateral.
(d) sinplifying lending procedures     Not applicable     Not applicable  Government was reluctant to carry out project
to decrease transaction costs                                              studies with Loan funds, as USAID had undertaken
similar studies in rural f&nance in support of the
Agricultural Modernization Law.
2. Increase agricultural               Uncertain          Uncertain        The agricultural extension component was not
growth, farmer incomes,                                                    carried out although the project successfully
and export earnings by                                                     increased flows of investment and working capital
which should have a positive impact on agricultural
facilitating the adoption of                                               growth.
modern technologies



I1
9. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
47.   Table 10, Part m contains the review of the Borrower's performance in complying
with Loan covenants, which was delayed in many cases, but generally complied with.
Performance of the Borrower and the executing agency was generally satisfactory, except
for failing to inform the Bank promptly of the inability to implement the FACACH
component, submitting withdrawal applications in excess of the amounts available in the
applicable disbursement categories, and delaying project studies.
10. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
48.   Bank-Borrower relationship was generally good during project preparation and
appraisal. Negotiations were very smooth. The relationship during project implementation
was quite supportive. The Borrower's relationship with the project executing agency was
normal and the relationship of the executing agency with participating financially
intermediaries was generally good.
11. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
49.   Project documentation and data were very good. The Loan Agreement, the Staff
Appraisal Report, and the Memorandum of the President were generally clear and
consistent. Other documents in the official Project Files were also adequate and helpful for
the preparation of this report.
12. LESSONS LEARNED
50.   Project objectives. Through this project, the Bank made a positive contribution to
modest improvements in the agricultural credit delivery system and provided much needed
long-term funds for agricultural investment finance. Nevertheless, the project's primary
objective of improving the agricultural credit delivery system, while understandable, was
perhaps too ambitious. The project may have reduced the distortions that derive from
inadequate macroeconomic management. However, it could not have foreseen nor
prevented disintermediation toward financial affiliates of banks or the banks' growth
through off-balance sheet operations, which increase the risks and compromise the
soundness and stability of the financial system.
51.   The main lesson is that a sector-specific credit project, like this one for agricultural
credit, is a weak instrument for addressing problems of financial intermediation in a
subsector when the overall banking system is unsound. Therefore, to address such
problems, instead of this type of project, which basically rediscounted credit for agriculture,
a broader financial sector operation may be more appropriate.
52.   Eligibility criteria. The eligibility indicators originally selected to evaluate financial
institutions could have been improved during project implementation, based on the 1989
intemational standards recommended by the Basle Committee Accord, the issues raised by
UPCA/FONDEPRO and the Superintendency of Banks, the introduction of the SAL II risk-
adjusted capital adequacy ratio, and developments in the Honduran financial system that



12
made the economic leverage ratio lose significance as a bank solvency indicator. The
lesson is that as the local and external environments evolve, especially when there are long
delays between project appraisal and Loan effectiveness, the Bank should be particularly
attuned to Government concerns about the continued usefulness of the agreed project
activities and progress indicators.
53.   Bank supervision. Although quick disbursements provided liquidity to Honduras,
they discouraged adequate Bank supervision once most of the Loan was disbursed, but
while other important components were still to be carried out. The lesson is that where the
great majority of disbursements are for something like a credit component, annual
disbursements should be limited to a percentage of the Loan amount, or there should be
sufficient incentives to ensure adequate supervision of aspects related to the original project
objectives even though most disbursements have taken place.
54.   Pilot component. The pilot component for FACACH-affiliated cooperatives was
canceled. The Bank had envisioned this component as an innovative way to increase
fmancing for low-income producers, despite repeated claims from BCH that it was not
feasible to rediscount subloans of nonbank FIs, such as credit unions or cooperatives.
55.   The lesson of this is two-fold. First, the Bank should pay closer attention to the
concerrs of the executing agency and the Borrower. If this had been done, the FACACH
component would have been excluded from the project. However, the second lesson is that
once the pilot component was included and the Loan closing date extended for this purpose,
the Bank skould have insisted on letting at least the few eligible cooperatives have access to
project funds. This would have yielded some insights on the pilot experience and the use of
nonbank FIs for funding agricultural projects while BCH risk exposure would have been
very limited.
56.   The experience with this component is very relevant to the Bank's current interest
in rural finance operations through nonbank FIs. Such operations should incorporate into
their design provisions for supervision and regulation of such intermediaries, inter alia, to
ensure the soundness and stability of the financial system. Moreover, the Bank should not
support projects with nonbank FIs if it cannot protect the Borrower from assuming all the
credit risk of these FIs. In the case of commercial banks, one way to provide such
protection is through mandatory legal reserve deposits where they exist, or through other
commercial bank accounts at the central bank, which effectively serve as a collateral on
rediscounts. Similarly, mechanisms to minimize the Borrower's assumption of credit risk
of nonbank intermediaries subloans would need to be developed, if these are to participate
in Bank-supported projects.
57.   Technical assistance. The technical assistance component for low-income farmers was
not carried out because of the premature dismantling of the UPCA/FONDEPRO technical unit
following the advice of a Bank supervision mission, based on the expectation of compliance
with the conditions of another, more recent Loan. The lesson is two-fold. First, Bank
projects should address the impact of their conditionality on other related projects. The SAL II
condition to eliminate directed credit lines, if complied with, would have hampered the
execution of this project. Second, Bank supervision missions should not dismiss project



13
components or activities without prior internal consultation with regard to conditionality of other
related Bank projects.
58.   With regard to the private technical assistance subcomponent aborted because of
free, similar services provided by the SRN, the lesson is that the privatization of services
can only occur when all services are private, or when remaining public services are well
targeted. In future operations, the Bank should include such components only when
Government has established an agricultural extension policy to privatize the provision of
technical assistance services and/or to target them to specific groups.






15
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWERS'S PERSPECTIVE
SECRETARIAT OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
Tegucigalpa, D.C.                     March 24, 1995                  CP-0485
Mr. Mark Cackler
Portfolio Manager
Natural Resources and Rural Poverty Division
Dept. 2, Latin America and the Caribbean Region,
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H. Street NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Re: Loan 2991-HO
Dear Mr. Cackler:
Based on the note sent by the Central Bank of Honduras dated March 23, 1995, we are
forwarding the report on Section II, Evaluation of the Fourth Agricultural Credit Project from the
standpoint of the Borrower, including the comments on Sections I and III prepared by the World
Bank.
Sincerely,
[signature]
CRISTIANA NUFIO DE FIGUEROA
Deputy Secretary for Public
Credit and Administration
CFC/IOS/ledes.



16
COMPLETION REPORT
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.    PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
The Fourth Agricultural Credit Project was designed to respond to the GOH's need to
continue supporting the financing needs of the agricultural sector, which had been addressed over
the last 16 years by the UPCA/BCH through five credit operations approved by the World Bank.
This new loan introduced important innovations in the procedures and criteria used in the
provision of credit, and in the criteria for eligibility and supervision of FIs. In addition, a new set-
up was devised to channel resources as a pilot component for the savings and loan cooperatives;
from the outset, it was not looked upon favorably by the implementing unit, in light of experiences
with such organizations in Honduras. The use of non-banking financial institutions, which over
time have been plagued by serious problems associated with the lack of solid financial standing,
posed a major credit risk to the Central Bank of Honduras.
The scope of the project may be considered reasonable, but not its size, considering
Honduras' mounting needs for development funds. Despite financial reform and the significant
increase in the level of financial intermediation, these factors did not translate into an increase in
the supply of funds to finance medium- and long-term projects.
The original project design omitted a more in-depth analysis of the feasibility of
implementing the component relating to channeling credit to the FACACH-affiliated cooperatives
as a novel way to finance small agricultural producers, and of the potential to implement a system
of private technical assistance units. These omissions become a problem for implementation; later
evaluations showed unfavorable results. These components are the two most critical variables in
project implementation.
At the outset of the project the criteria for eligibility to qualify as a financial intermediary
became a tool for adjusting certain banking system financial and credit policies.
At first, some banks felt these requirements were too strict; today it is thought that
compliance is not so difficult as long as the necessary measures, which on the whole have
contributed to greater institutional strengthening, are adopted.
Aware of the lack of a better analysis for executing the pilot project for the cooperatives,
in March 1992, three years after project implementation began, the Bank contracted the services
of a consulting firm to evaluate FACACH's cooperative system and to define criteria for
participation.  This analysis brought to light the Federation's financial and administrative
weaknesses, and so minimal criteria were recommended that should be required to qualify it and
declare it eligible. A capital adequacy ratio exceeding 7% could not be attained by FACACH
over the life of the project. Up to September 1991 FACACH had a capital adequacy ratio of -
20.0%.



17
The shutting down of the UPCA technical assistance unit had negative repercussions on
the delivery of extension services to low-income agricultural producers, who in general were not
covered by the services of the Secretariat for Natural Resources. In addition, the quality of the
feasibility studies in the same banks dropped off due to the departure of the UPCA's technical
counterpart, who also provided advisory services to the technical bank staff The agricultural
units in the country's banks have had high turnover in personnel, which impacts on the quality and
experience of the technical staffs.  This turnover had an impact on the training in project
supervision and evaluation performed by the implementing unit.
II.   PROJECT RESULTS
In terms of credit operations the project results were consistent with its objectives. Credit
was channelled to low-income producers to a lesser extent than estimated in the appraisal due to
non-execution of the FACACH pilot project. As set forth in a note sent by the Manager of the
Central Bank (March 1993), after an extensive period of review and interpretation of the
agreements and other contract documents, no clear definition was found of the criteria for the
participation of FACACH and its member cooperatives. That is why the indicators recommended
for implementing the pilot project were submitted for consideration by the implementing unit,
FACACH, and the Bank in the "Report on the Status of FACACH and its Member Cooperatives"
(Feller, March/92) and "Comments on the FACACH/FDF system of indicators for evaluating the
Savings and Loan cooperatives" (Feller, April/92).
The FACACH management forwarded its observations to the Bank in a communication
dated June 23, 1992. It expressed FACACH's agreement with the financial indicators suggested,
except for the rninimum capital adequacy ratio applicable to the cooperatives and to FACACH,
which was proposed at 7%. FACACH requested that it be reduced to 4%. No response was
received from the Bank.
In November 1992 the UPCA received the updated financial indicators from FACACH, as
well as the information regarding the potential demand for credit from the cooperatives that might
be eligible for financing from the outset. With this information it was found that FACACH had an
capital adequacy ratio of -20% and that in addition it had a potential demand from the Latin
American Federation of Savings and Loan (COLAC: Confederaci6n Latinoamericana de Ahorro y
Cr6dito) for US$ 593,174.
The high financial risk that the transfer of funds to FACACH posed to the Central Bank,
plus the reduced resources that could be channelled through the few potentially eligible
cooperatives, were the basis for requesting the Bank to cancel the pilot project in a note dated
March 11, 1993.  Therefore, the statement that there was negligence on the part of the
implementing unit in its implementation is questionable.
Initially the loan component was disbursed at a rediscount rate of 12%, although
beginning March 26, 1991 (eight months later) all funds disbursed were adjusted to the 19%
rediscount rate.



18
The indicators for project eligibility contributed to decision-making in the banking system,
related mainly to capital increases and to the provision of reserves to cover problem loans.
Initially three large banks were not eligible because they did not comply with the economic
indebtedness indicator. They duly increased their net worth, which enabled them to meet this
requirement in the short run. This situation was detected and analyzed by the other banks to the
point that in subsequent years many of the banks that participated in the project announced capital
increases.
The failure of the country's banking system to attract long-term funds on a significant scale
led the banks to make regular use of rediscounted long-term resources to cover their customers'
financing needs.
As noted in the IBRD evaluation, the Central Bank has deemed it appropriate to include
among the banking system's eligibility criteria the international standards recommended in the
1989 Basle Agreement, which, together with the new regulatory and supervisory measures
included in the new Law on Banking Establishments to be submitted in the near future for
Congressional approval, will be basic tools for improved monitoring of the system.
MII. ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE WORLD BANK
At the stage of project preparation and appraisal the Bank considered, perhaps without
undertaking an in-depth analysis, including the FACACH pilot project and establishing private
technical assistance units.  We thought that on that occasion, if a better study had been
undertaken of the context, perhaps these components would not have been included in the project
in view of the small feasibility of their implementation.
After project implementation began, serious difficulties were experienced with the Bank
counterpart, as the person who was initially responsible for supervising the project was changed.
This situation led to a lack of clarity in the guidelines issued by the supervision missions.
In subsequent years Bank support was satisfactory; levels of communication and
coordination improved notably, contributing to improved project results.
IV. ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE BORROWER
Introducing financial indicators to determine eligibility of banking institutions to
participate in the project led to the consideration of selective credit policies by some FIs, which
resulted in the exclusion of a good number of investment projects, mainly involving low-income
producers, who by virtue of their particular characteristics pose a greater credit risk.  The
implementing unit applied these criteria for participation with the utmost rigor; these criteria are
tools for evaluating performance in those banks that do not have highly refined portfolio
monitoring policies.



19
The disqualification of BANADESA after the first year of the project also helps explain
why the 28% financing estimated in the evaluation for low-income producers was not attained.
BANADESA had had 40% or more participation in the UPCA portfolio; its credit was geared
more to low-income producers. Most of the segment that BANADESA served was made up of
producers who are not viable candidates for commercial credit.
It should be reiterated, as mentioned in the Bank evaluation, that such credit programs are
not the best tool for implementing macroeconomic measures in the national financial system,
given the limited oversight exercised over such programs.
Further, the implementing unit experienced serious difficulties meeting certain
conditionalities related to project components negotiated with the Government under other loans.
Such documentation was almost never available to the implementing unit, which led to problems
of compliance or timely execution.
In the future some coordinating mechanism should be instituted among the Bank, the
Government, and all other entities that carry out specific projects, so that if they are indeed bound
by some type of sectoral conditionality the needed information is provided on time, so as to
ensure that actions in the area of their responsibility are taken.






21
Table 1
PART 111. STATISTICAL DATA                             Page I of I
HONDURAS
[V AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2991-HO)
Related Bank Loans
' ' L- T                                 "' '' '' '"'' ' ' "' ''' - "- --- .-':''Yenrof  - ----:
Title- '                          Purpose                         Approval          Status
III Agricultural Credit  Third general line of credit for discounts of bank  FY83     Implementation
Project a/             loans to producers of export agriculture.                      completed
(Ln. 2284-HO)
Structural Adjustment   Among other puirposes, this project sought to unify  FY89     Implementation
Loan                   interest rates on Central Bank credit lines and                completed
(Ln. 2990-HO)          strengthen the financial condition of commercial
banks.
Structural Adjustrnent  Financial sector actions sought (a) the unitication of  FY91  Implementation
Loan II                Central Bank rediscount lines and rates. (b) quarterlv         completed
(Ln. 3257-HO)         adjustments to on-lending interest rates, (c) the
reduction of subsidized credit funded with ex-ternal
resources: and (d) the strengthening of the banking
system's financial health, including a program for the
reorganization of the agricultural financial system.
Agricultural Sector    Among other objectives, this project seeks to        FY94      In implementation
Adjustment Credit      consolidate reforms in rnral finance.
(Cr. 2540-HO')
a/ The Bank had four livestockiagncultural credit projects prior to the Third Agricultural Credit Project. now more
than ten years old.
Source: Project Files.



22
PART m
Table 2
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
IV AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2991-HO)
Proiect Timetable
........'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ..    ...
Identification (EPS)        December 1987                                    December 1987
Pre-Appraisal Mission       December 1987                                    January 1988
Appraisal Mission           January 1988            March 1988               March 21, 1988
Negotiations                August 1988                                      August 17-19, 1988
Board Approval              June 14, 1988           September 15, 1988       September 15, 1988
Loan Signature              November 1988                                    November 21, 1988
Loan Effectiveness          February 21, 1989       April 21, 1989           June 29, 1990
June21, 1989
August21, 1989
December 21, 1989
April 20, 1990
August31, 1990
Project Completion          December 31, 1991       December 31, 1992        May 1994
December 31, 1993
Loan Closing                June 30, 1992           June 30, 1993            June 30, 1994
June 30, 1994
Source: Project files and Memorandum of the President (Report P-4803-HO).
Comments: The following are the most important issues emerging during project preparation/appraisal and implementation:
Preparation/Appraisal: The main issues during preparation and appraisal were: (a) the low level of rediscount and on-
lending interest rates; (b) the level of portfolio arrears of the banking system; (c) the participation of BANADESA; and (d) the
participation of FACACH.
Project Implementation: Loan effectiveness was postponed several times, first because of delays in meeting effectiveness
conditions, and later because Honduras was in arrears status with the Bank There were two major implementation issues. One
problem was the Central Bank reservations about the credit risk involved in the FACACH credit union system, as well as
questions on the potential demand of small farmers for credit from the credit unions compared to demand from other financial
intermediaries. On the Borrower's request, this component was later dropped. The other implementation problem was severe
delays in contracting project studies, many of which were designed to address small farmers' access to credit.



23                                       PART III
Table 2
Page 2 of 2
HONDURAS
IV AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2991-HO)
Proiect Schedule
II              ~~~~~Quarter   l12 131411121314 F11213 4i11 12 131411 121314 1112i314111213 14 i 1213j4f1
Year    I 1987  |  1988 I 1989  | 1990  1 1991  | 1992  1 1993  1 1994  11
a Identification                       . I        I         I                 Ii           I             I
i Pre-Appraisal Mission         I       MIA I               I        I        I        I
IIII                                          I             I        I            I             I        Ii
Appraisal Mission             |U>A               I        I                 I
Post-Appraisal Mission                          I        I         I        I        I       .         II
Loan Negotiations                             MA I         |                I                 I        II
If                              I        I        I         I            I        I        I        I 
Baoard Approval                 I        I   D>A 
|Signature Date                                 M i A|      i        I        I        I        iI
| Date of Effectiveness                          *  >>>>>>>>>>>A   I          I        I        I       Ij
Project Completion                                                         >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>A 
I.                    I        I        I        I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II  I     I
F Closing Date                                                       I               >>>>>>>>>>>>>A
II                      Year   | 1987  1 1988  1 1989  | 1990  1 1991  | 1992  | 1993  1 1994  II
.I                     Quarter |1121314|1j21314|1121314|11213141ji2131411121314|1j2)314111213|4|1
Scheduled: *          Slippage:   >          Actual: A



24
PART IlIl
Tpble 3
Page 1 of 1
HONDURAS
IV AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan 2991-HO
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
World Bank Fiscal Years
11989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
ppraisal Estimate              8.25   15.25   22.00  25.00    ---    ---    ---
Actual                           0       0     16.87   22.45   23.52  24.78   24.99
Actual as % of Appraisal Estimate   0    0      77      90      94      99     100
Actual as % of Loan Amount       0       0      67      90      94      99     100
Date of Final Disbursement:   July 1, 1994
DISBURSEMENTS TIMELINE
25
,210           7   ,  .. .  .......  .......
Ro
15
0
1989 1990  1991  1992  1993 1994  1995
World Bank Fiscal Years
|-Estimated  Actual l



25
PART III
Table 4
Page 1 of 1
HONDURAS
IV AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan 2991-HO
Project Costs
(US$ million)
I    Appraisal estimate          Actual estimate b/
Local   Foreign            Local   Foreign
Source             I Costs    Costs    Total    Costs    Costs    Total
General line of credit               28.4     10.2    38.6      27.3     16.2      43.5
Agnculture                           12.8      5.7     18.5     16.2      7.8      24.0
- Permanent Crops                     8.5      5.2     13.7      5.1        3       8.1
- Annual Crops                        1.1      0.5      1.5      3.5      1.5       5.0
- Land Improvement                    3.2      0.1      3.3      7.6      3.3      10.9
Animal Production                     9.4      3.9     13.2     11.1      8.4      19.5
- Livestock                           8.6      2.7     11.3      7.8      3.3      11.1
- Poulty, Fisheries, Swine and others  0.8     1.2      2.0      3.3      5.1       8.4
Other al                              6.3      0.6      6.9      0.0      0.0       0.0
Extension service to farmers          0.5      0.1      0.6      0.0      0.0       0.0
Training                              0.0      0.1      0.1      0.0      0.2       0.2
Special studies                       0.1      0.2      0.31     0.0      0.3       0.3
TOTAL                           1   29.0      10.6    39.61    27.3      16.7      44.0
Sources: Staff Appraisal Report and data provided by Project Unit.
a/ It includes Private Technical Assistance Units, Technical Assistance to Farmers, Short-Term Credit
through Credit Unions, and Rural Industries.
b/ Estimated by FONDEPRO.
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding.



26
PART IlIl
Table 5
Page 1 of 1
HONDURAS
IV AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan 2991-HO
Project Financing
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate    Actual estimate a/
Local  Foreign       Local  Foreign
Source             [ Costs  Costs Total  Costs   Costs  Total
IBRD                                 14.4 10.6  25.01    15.7      9.3  25.0
articipating Financial Intermediaries  6.3  ---    6.31   5.8     2.5   8.3
ubborrowers                          5.8  ---    5.8     4.1      3.9   8.0
Central Bank/Govemment                2.5  ---    2.5      1.7     1.0   2.7
TOTAL                                29.0  10.6  39.6    27.3    16.7  44.0
Sources: Staff Appraisal Report and data provided by Project Unit.
a/ Estimated by FONDEPRO.



27                                            PART III
Table 6
Page 1 of I
HONDURAS
IV AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2991-HO)
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement
'--~~~-ffi ~FhtFopit S4ThcnnBl   ThU F0 ~                                     Qnl Fa
C~~teg~~~ty  A-flocaRt'ic                                                    . ... Msfflai
''"''.''...'.'.'.'.''..-'"'''~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~M' ,.... .,.       . ,     . .,..'"' t:' .....   . ,,
(I) Subloans to Small-  4,500,000  4,500,000      3,500,000       4,100,000      4,582,885     4,581,418
Scale Farmers by FIs
other than FACACH
Credit Unions
(2) Subloans to other    16,000,000    17,000,000  18,000,000    19,900,000      19,900,000    19,900,239
Beneficiaries by Fls
other than FACACH
Credit Unions
(3) Subloans made by    2,500,000  2,500,000      2,500,000          0              0              0
FACACH Credit
Unions
(4) Extersion         1,000,000    1,000,000      1,000,000       1,000,000       517,115       517,115
Services, Training and
Studies
(5) Unallocated       1,000,000        0              0              0              0              0
Exchange rate                                                                                2,208
fluctuations
Total         25,000,000    25,000,000    25,000,000      25,000,000     25,000,000    24,998,274
Reasons for reallocation of Loan funds:
First reallocation request: funds originally allocated to category 2 had been exhausted.
Second reallocation request: strong demand for funds in category 2.
Third reallocation request: to cover an overdraft of US$1.9 million in category 2.
Fourth reallocation request: to provide additional credit resources to small producers.



PART III
28                                   Table 7
Page 1 of I
HONDURAS
IV AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2991-HO)
Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return
Indicative Model      Estimated at      Estimated at
appraisal) a/    completion b/
Banana (100 ha)               41                57
Citrus (35 ha)                30                29
Dairy (70 ha)            not estimated          30
Dual purpose livestock        28                32
(100 ha)
Palma africana (50 ha)   not estimated          17
Cacao (10 ha)                 26              > 100
Land improvement and          31           none financed
soil conservation    IlI
Sources: (a) Staff Appraisal Report; (b) FONDEPRO.



29                                                   PART III
Table 8
Page I of 1
HONDURAS
IV AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2991-HO)
Special Studies
1. To evaluate methods to     The study recommended setting up a                       2.5       US$88,168
encourage financial            complementary guarantee fund and freeing             months/man
intermediaries to on-lend to  interest rates on agricultural loans. GOH
low-income producers under     partly accepted the recommendations, but is
competitive terms.            reluctant to free interest rates. The impact of
the study is questionable, as guarantee funds are
not proved to be an effective mechanism to
increase small fanners access to credit.
Follow-up actions are part to the AGSAC (Cr.
2540-HO).
2. To determine and propose    The study concluded with the preparation of a draft bill  2.5      US$37,000
legal, regulatory and procedural   on secured transactions. GOH is expected to promote the   months/man
changes aimed at increasing the   bill and present it to Congress. Follow-up actions are
effectiveness of utilization of  part to the AGSAC (Cr. 2540-HO).
chattel mortgages and
mortgages and reducing the
costs of establishing both types
of mortgages.
3. To evaluate methods to     GOH is reluctant to fully privatize BANADESA until        3.5      US$178,000
divest BANADESA.               alternative mechanisms to provide financial services to  months/man
the rural population at large are in place. Nevertheless,
the impact of the study is acceptable as it has helped
GOH understand the potential fiscal burden of continuing
operating BANADESA under its current mode. The
study recommendations and implementation are being
discussed under the AGSAC     (Cr. 2540-HO).
4. To analyze and review the   Bank staff and consultants carried out work in this area  not done
system of property rights and  during preparation of the land titling component of the
title recording in order to   AGSAC. Consequently, there was no need for a separate
improve the ways and means to   study.
resort to the use of mortgages to
secure, inter alia, agricultural
credits.
5. To analyze transaction costs    USAID carried out a similar study in 1985, which was  not done
of financial intermediaries and    used during preparation of this project. Although at one
beneficiaries so as to identify  point it was thought that USAID might finanice a similar
financial intermediation costs    study, there is no evidence that it was ever carried out.
and ways to reduce them or to
review margins and spreads, or
both.
Source: Project files.



HONDURAS
Fourth Agricultural Credit Project (2291-HO)
Training Subcomponent 1992 - 1994
l                                                                     COST IN U.S. DOLLARS
DURAT.                              NUM3ER                              NATIONAL
AREA                        ACTIVITY                    HEADQUARTERS   INSTIT.  (DAYS)   PARTICIPANTS                               OF           CURRENCY    CURRENCY                      TOTAL
PARTIC.
1. BANK & FINANCE    Course: Analysis. Administration and           Honduras            INCAE          10       -Finance Director and        48            40.000,00            884,27             40.884,27
Portfolio Evaluation.                    San Pedro Sula                                Division Chief
UPCA-BCH
-Credit Managers and
Officials from
Financial
Intermediaries
Course: Organization, Negotiation and       Honduras           INCAE           10      Director, Finance            25            21,164.98                               21.164,98
Planning of Second Tier Banking           Tegucigalpa                                  Division Chief and
UPCA-BCH
Regional Deputy-
Chiefs
FONDEI, FOVI                                                                                     O
Executives & BCH
Loans & Portfolio
Course: V International Course on             Peru             ALIDE           10       UPCA-BCH Finance             1             5.197,58                                5.197.58
Financial Negotiation, Managerial and         Lima                                      Division Chief
Banking System
Rural Finance Seminar                        U.S.A              BIRF           4       UPCA Director &               4             6.744,86                                6.744,86
Washington                                  Government Officials
from Honduras
Training Tour: FIRA                          Mexico          Banco de          5        BCH Deputy                   3             13.730,12                              13.730,12
Mexico, D.F.       Mexico                    Managers and
Department Chiefs
Higher Level Banking Management              U.S.A             INCAE           10       Division Chief               I             6.550,00            423,88              6.793,00
Miami                                     Agricultural Credit
'H H
o H F
OFt
o    t-t



COST IN U.S. DOLLARS
DURAT.                              NUMBER                              NATIONAL
AREA                        ACTIVITY                   HEADQUARTERS   INSTIT.  (DAYS)   PARTICIPANTS                                OF           CURRENCY    CURRENCY                      TOTAL
PARTIC.
11.                     Course: Management Information              Honduras            INCAE           5       BCH Deputy                   25            23.000,00            163,55            23.163,65
Systems and Data Base on Financing         Tegucigalpa                                  Managers, Director,
Institutions                                                                            Finance Division
Chief, Chief and
UPCA-BCH
Regional Deputy
Chiefs
Course: Structured Analysis and              Mexico            Mexico          10       Data Processing              I             4,583,60                                4.583.60
Design Systems (basic level)              Mexico, D.FE          IBM                     Technician
Course: Structured Analysis and              Mexico            Mexico          5        Data Processing              1             3.071,23                                3.071,23
Design Systems (advanced level)           Mexico, D.F.          IBM                    Technician
Course: DATABASE, Progranuning             Puerto Rico         P. Rico         15       Data Processing              l             5.555,00                                5.555,00      >
and Design I y 11                           San Juan           WANG                    Technician
Ill.                    Course: Project Fornulation,                 Honduras           INCAE           10      UPCA-BCH                     45            45.000,00            1.097,70           46.097,90
Administration and Evaluation            San Pedro Sula                                 Agricultural
Technicians,
Financial
Interrnediazies
Agricultural
Technicians
Seminar: Economic Opening and               Honduras           INCAE           2        Director, Finance           50             10.000,00            879,90            10.879,90
Privatization ofthe Agricultural          Tegucigalpa                                   Division Chief,
Technician Services                                                                     Regional Chiefs and
Deputy Chiefs
UPCA-BCH
Producers and
Profesionals in
Agricultural Science
Course: Project Evaluation and             Costa Rica          INCAE           15       FONDEPRO Credit              5            26.250,00                               26.250,00
Environmernal Impact                        Alajuela                                    Analysts
210.947,37                             214.216,09
Si U0AA0CRiVaFMT&STABtE&PCK dR                                                                                                                                                                                       -
iOS..6. 1 "4lbP
xD H
O0 H
o h



PART III
32                                                                                   Table 10
Page 1 of3
HONDURAS
IV AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2991-HO)
Compliance with Legal Covenans s
Cove-                              Original:  Revised
Agreement/  nant                       Present   Fulfillme i Fulfillment                                      Description of Covenant                                             Comments2
Section'               Type            Status              nt Date               Date
LA 3.01 (a),   4,10                    CD                                                         Due diligence                                                    Borrower failed to inform Bank
BCHPA                                                                                                                                                              promptly of inability to
2.01 and                                                                                                                                                            implement the FACACH credit
2.05                                                                                                                                                               component
........... .......... .          ...............        ................................................................................................................................. ...................... 
LA 3.01 (b)    3,10                    C                                                           Subsidiary loan agreement to relend the
BCH PA                                                                                            proceeds of the Loan.
2.04 (a)
...........................    ......................................                              ...........................................................................................................................................j
LA 3.04                5               C                 2/28/89                                   Restructure the Project Executive                               The Project Executive
Committee; vest the Executive Advisory   Committee was dissolved with
Committee with the authority to                                 Bank agreement. Agricultural
coordinate agricultural credit policies                         credit issues are now the
and to resolve agricultural credit issues                       responsibility of the Ec:'nomic
related to UPCA operation; maintain the   Cabinet.
Executive Advisory Committee and
cause it to hold regular meetings at least
twice a year.
...............        .. ........     ...........       ....................................................................................  ...................... ................. ....
LA 3.05 (a)    2,10                    CP               i1/1/89                                    Rationalization of agricultural interest                        Interest rates have not been
rates to provide for periodic adjustments   adjusted to reflect the marginal
to enable (a) the rediscount rate to                             cost of funds to commercial
reflect the marginal cost of borrowing                          banks, despite a March 1994
funds; and (b) on-lending rates to reflect   review that suggested an
the correspondent on-lending market                              increase from 19% to 22% on
rate.                                                           BCH rediscount rates.
Moreover, formula used to
revise rates appears to be based
on the average, not the
marginal, cost of funds to
commercial banks.
.........................              ...........       ............      ............................................................................................  .......... .......... ......................... 
LA 3.05 (b)   10                       C                                                           Pooling of BCH extemally funded
agricultural credit lines.
LA 3.05 (c)    2 10                    CP                                                         Adjustment of agricultural interest rates    Interest rates have not been
other than the Project, to bring them to                        adjusted to reflect the marginal
levels satisfactory to the BCH and the                          cost of funds to commercial
Bank, to permit the adjustment of                               banks, despite a March 1994
discount and on-lending rates to reflect    review that suggested an
I i   j                                  i changes in the marginal cost of                                  increase from 19% to 22% on
borrowed funds and market on-lending                            BCH rediscount rates.
rates.
. ....... .... .. ... .... .... .. . .. ....           ..... .. .. . ..  .... .... ... ... ..... ... ... ..... .. .... .. ..... ............ ..... ... ... .. ............................. ................:-:
BCH PA                 10              C              ,                                           Procurement
2.02                                         .                           ,
.............................    ....................  ......................  ......................    .............................  ...................................................................................  .............    .......................
BCH PA                 3,10    , C                    i                                           On-lending contracts with each financial
2.04                                                                                               intermediary (FI).



PART III
33                                                                                Table 10
Page 2 of 3
Cove-                          Orig.nal    Revised
Agreement/  nant   .Present   Fulfillme. Fulfillment                                              Description of Covenant                                      Comments2
Section       Type                 Status            nt Date            Date
BCH  PA              9,10          n.a.            2/28/89                              BCH  to furnish to the Bank signed                        Part B, extension services, were
2.07                                                                                    contracts with Secretaria de Recursos                     not implemented.  The project
Naturales and INFOP, for promoting and   unit extension staff was
. financing the activities of Part B                        dismissed on the advice of the
............... .(extensions, services and training)                                                                            April 1991 supervision mission.
BCH PA               10            CD              5/31/89    2/28/94                   BCH to carry out the studies and present  linplementation of
2.08                                               10/31/89        3/31/94              to the Bank for its review, the findings                  recommendations of the three
and reconumendations of each of such                      studies is condition of AGSAC.
studies.
Implement recommendations.
7/31/89         Under
12/31/89  AGSAC
.. ..... ... .... . ....... .....-----... .... ..-........ .. .. .. -..... . .. ..... .. ... ..... ... ............ .. ...... ..... .... .... ....... ... .    ..... ....... ...... .. ....... ... ... .    ..... .
BCH PA               I             CP                                                   Separate records and accounts in                          A number of audit opinions
4.01 (a)                                                                                accordance with sound accounting                          related to project particpiating
practices.                                                Fls were qualified. The
qualifications have been
reviewed by Bank staff in
detail, and are relatively minor.
BCH took imnrnediate action to
correct borrowers' and
intermediaries' improper use of
Loan funds.
......................................... ..............................................................................................................................................................................................................
BCH PA               I             C               6/30                                 Submit audit reports before June 30                       Borrower has submitted all
4.01 (b) and                                     .               ,                      each year.                                                audited reports of 1993 project
(c)                                                                                                                                               accounts and the FIs' audited
corporate financial statements.
-....---......--..-..-................ .?.. ........... ....                     ......    .............. ............... .... ... ............... ............... ......................................    .............
BCH PA              2,10           C                                                    Citeria for commercial bank
Schedule 2,                                                                             participation in the project: (a)
para. I (a)                                                                             economic leverage and recovery rate
coefficients and (b) not to have been
determined in high risk of insolvency by
the Superintenidency of Banks.
BC-H  PA  -          21            C            ..                                      Liuerna iu; th.e Borrowei's a2s  ,11; u!l                 Disqualified  ifter first yea: of
Schedule 2,                                                                             development bank (BANADESA) to                            project.
para. I (b)                                                                             participate in the project.
BCH PA              2,10           C                                                    Ol-lending conditions for FIs.
Schedule 2,
para. 2
BCH  PA              10            C                                                    Eligibility of subprojects.
Schedule 2
para. 3                         *               .                .



PART III
34                                                                          Table 10
Page 3 of 3
Cove-                     .  Original         Revised
Agreement/    nant            I Present         Fulfillme.  Fulfillment                     Description of Covenant                                   Comments2
Section'           Type          Status           nt Date           Date
BCH PA              10           C                                                 Small-scale farmers are farmers with
Schedule 2,                                                                        total assets directly related to
para. 4                                                                            agricultural activities (including land,
farm  machinery and livestock) not
exceeding the equivalent of US$40,000.
Medium- and Large-scale are all other
farmers or members of a Private
Technical Assistance Unit.
................................................................ ....... ...................... ........................................ ....................................................... ........................       ............
BCH PA              10           C                                                 Amounts drawn on subloans to be                       Some borrowers used subloan
Schedule 2,                    .                                                   applied exclusively to expenditures for               proceeds for activities outside
para. 6                        .                                                   the investment plans to be financed                   the scope of the project. BCH
thereunder.                                           recovered funds immediately
after misuse was discovered.
BCH PA              10           C                                                 FIs to  approve investment plans of up to
Schedule 2,                                                                        the equivalent of US$35,000 or, where
paras. 9, 12   .               5                               .                   50%  of the investments will be used for
I the purchase of breeding livestock.
.BCH  to approve all other plans or to
authorize the Fl to do so.
................................... ................  ...........  .........................................................:.................................
BCII pA              0         *                                                   Maximun aggregate borrowing: one
Schedule 2,                                                                        time the beneficiary's total assets or in
para. 10                       .                             .                     excess of US$ 1,500,000 equivalent; for
small-scale farmers, aggregate
borrowings not to exceed the equivalent
of US$40,000.
.........................           ......................     ...................................................I...................................................  .................................    ..
BCH PA             I10           C                                                 The amount of a long-term subloan may
Schedule 2,                                                                        not exceed 80% and 90% of the
para. 14 (e)                                                                       investment plans for medium  and large-
scale and small-scale farmers,
.____  ._ _    ____    ____    _____    respectively.
1. BCH means the Central Bank of Honduras. Fl means financial intermediary.                         2. If not fulfilled, provide reason.
3. No formal revision required; this covenant is no longer relevant.                                n.a. = not applicable
Covenant class:
l Accounts/audit                                                                     8 Indigenous people
2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries                          9 Monitoring, review and reporting
3 Flow and utilization of the Project or of its executing agency                      10  Implementation
4 Counterpart funding                                                                 11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
5 Manamgenet aspects of the Project or of its executing agency                        12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
6 Environmental covenants                                                             13 Other
7 Involuntary resettlement
Status:                     C     - Complied with                                 CD   - Complied after delay
NC   - Not complied with                              SOON - Compliance expected in reasonably short time
CP    - Complied with partially                       NYD  - Not yet due



35
PART m
Table 11
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
IV AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 299 1-HO)
Use of Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Through Appraisal         37.3                                                           37.3
Appraisal through Board    11.4     3.9                                                   15.3
Approval
Board Approval through             13.9   0.9                                            14.8
Effectiveness
Supervision                                        9.1    10.8    5.1    8.3             33.3
[Completion *                                                              2.8    4.0    6.8
|  TOTAL                48.7     17.8    0.9    9.1    10.8    5.1    11.1    4.0   107.5
* Estimated for FY95.
Source: World Bank MIS.



SIN $u"uR PjoAX pue sp_4 loofoJd :a31fOS
is!epads 'uptusq = sq 'is&[uue suopvwndo =  eo   Stn8uwu  jsrl = wiu is!jD!o9ds  )!Pam   =     xSAjOLM  jtuiIlg   3 '1s!IvJnhInoupu = e  )sIWoUoo lIeputug = 03
.         ~         ~~~.                     -                                                    t 
uo01Wndwij
smumq lieoDauRuoo o1 spunj                                                                                                                               .                        H3dpUB
Jo Isoi rLmrnsnw   tlp loDIUoJ oI paisnrpu                                                                                                                                                      uoismiadns
uIaq loU DAeU4 solW  lUnos!Pal HOR  I                                          .          Z                          sq 'ui .8                              Z                  i t6lin
....... .. .  ...............................................................................  ...........................  ...........................   ...............................    .................................................... ...............  ................ ............... ..........
,iJoslAiadns
DUON                 Zit                                                                                     1              tI6/Z   iInj
saipnls loDolid ale!l..                                                                                                                                               uols1AJadnSI
ol slapzluoo ;umlnsuoo Sutzquyl mi sAula;                                     Z                                                                                            un   Z  I6/11                          lind
......................................................................................... ........................... ........................... ................................ .....................................................
luDuoduioa uorun                                  UjOISlAildnSl
PDpaJa Dtp doip Xjjmuuoj 0 HDaJO isnb)                                        z                      z           .               o 'uL                        .    Z                   E6/Z                       11nA
.................................................................................................................... ............................................................ ...................... ............... .............................
uoiswAJadnS
e u             e-u                   emU                                sq 9                              I              Z618                   IW.Id
qminb pjnooa
sqDoumlq jIDeADS inq lUDAIOSUI DooDq Awo                          liiji
sDAoImijdoo nquioui IWIDADS --2Un;mdro                               i md
IOU li)S suowun v!palo 'uonlmdionzmd                                                                                                                                                       UOISIAiodnS
boD!o.i Joj saxyqmnb iDSuor Ou VS30VNV8                                         z                      z                         sq tui                                 Z               M6E  inj
j        j                j ~~~uoxsrWMiia
B1 U             BU                    meu                              ui   T*u                           I              Z6/Z   .                ullmd
....... .. ....  .. .......... ... ..... .  ......................................................                                  .............   .....................  ..... ;j..................   .............  .....   ........................
jumg JeguDJ pue fld uaaaqDA    stuwlqold
suofluoTun1OZ Vi(d) w'n DlFoJold
um drqsLapal jo 3Pol 'loaCold aDl in suorun
;ipDfl jouoi dio di duou 'sDlmio1Juoq i                                                                                                                                                         UOKsKAJadnS
0l s5D1Iu lsD.iut aI)juui  A%olaq pum  aAIWSDN                                                                   i     sq  'e  'aJ 'uin       01             i                         16/E       illn
........ ................................................................................ ........................... ........................... ................................ ..................... .............................................
-.~~~~                                                                                                                                                                             ueugssngoI iZ.  I.  6/b....ie 
juotspadns
emu              m e u        i        e u                                    sq'ui   01                   1              68.V
uorsrAJadns
*B-U           m*e-u                  meu                                 Dq    i                         I         i  6811Z                    ImllJd
............. ......................................                     ....................................................................... ................... ...............................................  .......    ....  ................
UOLSiaJdnlS
ma,              mmu                                                     sq   (                            1              68!!                   IumDd
emu                                                             e'm'W i  9                                                881E              Ims!eiddV
.. . . . . .. . . ... ... ... . . . . . . .. .. . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . .. .. .. . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .  . . . . . . . .. .... . . . . ......................   ......   .. . .. . . . . . . . . . .. .
*               ~~jmstmsddV
*B-U j          m*eu                  me u 1                a 'e 'sq 'uil   0 1                            5              88/1                       -Dld
jSAlIDarqo                sniels              pluDsadad i, SUOSJ3d d                                                       j          OaZ 
suialqoid Jo saddj, i                   W1DUw                  tiotl               sllms  els  Pi                     JW i          o ijD3  JO                       loDOId
-doIDADO , -;uDuuaiduq    pDzilmoaddS                                   ui sAm(j   loqwunN    /ftuoW j   Jo aDLSS
ita j j LossrW  j j 
suo!ssIIA  :sa3Jnos;)a  )1uj                          Jo asfj
(OH-I 66Z umof)
JLDWo'dc 11lallO '1HanIo1rd9V Al
SY(LNfUOH
z Jo z gar2
I I aqLaj
III EV 9d



PART III
37                                                    Table 12
Page I of I
IINDUI A;,
IV AGRCIJC ULTRAL CREDIT PROJ ECT
(L,oan 299 1 4-10)
AdJJtli-1iletis to BCII Rediscount Rtites
(In perceiitages)
S    _     . ;  .s5 h 1 _; I '~~~~~'I          :1,:"jj''" '' 'I' E     
.111u( 31.1. 199(0              12                      16                      25
MUirci 26, 1991                19                      23                     34
AliMgiit X, 1991                21                      25                     34
Mliarel 26. 1992                19                     23                       9
November 13, 1992               17                     21                       9
MniY 6, 199.3                   19                     23                       1 1
Sourcve IKF)NDIMI'O). Bianco Crnsral dve I)Pndurax.



38                                                           PART III
Table 13
Page 1 of 1
HONDURAS
IV AGRIP. TLTITRAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 291-HO)
FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES PARTICIPATING IN THE PROJECT
Financial Inte..i                          Banks qualified to participate in Project
(F I)                              _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
YEAR 1          YEAR 2          YEAR 3            YEAR 4
1990            1991            1992              1993
Banco Continental                 Qualified        Qualified       Qualified     Qualified in 12/93
Banco Hondureflo del Cafd       Disqualified in    Qualified      Qualified        Did not qualify
7/90
Banco del Coinercio               Qualified      Disqualified      Qualified       Did not qualify
from 8/91
tdrough 9/91
Banco de Occidente               Disqualified      Qualified     Disqualfied       Did not qualify
from 7/90              ~~~~from 5/92
through 1 1/90                  through 8/92
BANADESA                          Qualified     Did not qualify   Did not qualify  Did not qualify
Banco del Pafs                      in.a.            n.a.         Qualified in       Qualified
7/92
Banco Mercantil                   Qualified        Qualified      Qualified          Qualified
Banco de los Trabajadorcs         Qualified        Qualified       Qualified         Qualified
Financiera Centroarncricana       Qualified        Qualified      Qua'ified          Qualified
BancD AtIUintida                  Qualified        Qualified       Qualified         Qualified
Bancoo Sogerin                  Disqualified for   Qualified       Qualified         Qualified
one month in
7/90
Banc o de las Fuerzas Arnadas     Qualified        Qualified     Disqualified        Qualified
from 5/92
througl 6/92
Banco del Aliorro Hondureflo    Did not qualify    Qualified    Disqualified in   Qualified in 5/93
5/92
Banco Capitalizadora            Disqualified in    Qualified       Qualified         Qualified
Hondurefa                            7/90



39                                                PART HII
Table 14
Page I of 2
HONDURAS
IV AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2991-HO)
Commercial Banks Economic Leverage Indicators
(December of Each Year)
Bank                          1988    1989      1990      1991    19      1993
Atlantida                      37      35        26       14       15      10
Occidente                     106       57       28       19       20      15
Ahorro                         31      15        12       14       14      11
Trabajadores                   17       17       17       14       13       8
Capitalizadora Hondurefia      29      65        19       12       13       9
Comercio                       5        5        4        5        5        5
Conthental                     7        6        5        4        4        7
Financiera Centroamericana     17       16       5        12       11       7
Sogerin                        38      56        23       21       16      10
de las FF.AA.                  25       22       16       14       15       9
Mercantil                      19       18       23       16       19      19
Hondurefio del Cafe            5        6        6        7        7        7
del Pafs                      n.a.     n.a.     n.a.     n.a.    n.a.       7
Elegibility Criteria          35       35       35       25      24       23
Number of Banks                3       4         O       0        0       0 |
Disqualified a/            _      _       _      _       __             _
a/ For 1988 and 1989, number of banks that would have disqualified if the project had
the World Bank Loan become effective.
Source: FONDEPRO, Banco Central de Honduras.



40                                         PART UI
Table 14
Page 2 of 2
HONDURAS
IV AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2991-HO)
Commercial Banks Recovery Rates *
(as percent of payments due)
Bank               1988      1989      1990       1991   J 1992          1993
Atlantida          71.0      68.3       81.1     78.6        81.3       78.8
Occidente          62.2       60.5      73.4      71.7        74.3       74.4
Bancahorro         45.5      61.4       71.4      62.9       79.8        77.7
Bancahsa           75.7       72.8      73.4      79.3        81.7       91.1
Sogerin            64.3      72.6       76.5      78.4        82.4       83.1
Comercio           60.8      67.7       62.0      82.1        67.3       60.6
Continental        52.5      67.1       76.0      77.2        76.4       82.5
Mercantil          72.1       76.3      68.0      76.3       77.9        77.3
Ficensa            75.0       89.0      82.2      79.3        79.9       87.2
Banhcafe           68.6       59.9      74.2      75.6        65.5       64.7
Banffaa             71.5      73.3      68.1      73.4        76.6       89.6
Trabajadores        86.4     79.7       75.8      76.5        76.8       65.0
Banpafs             0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        54.0
Average Recovery    65.4     69.5      74.6       75.8       77.8        78.0
Rate
Minimum             65.0     65.0       65.0      75.0        77.0       79.0
Eligilibity Criteria
Number of Banks     n.a.      n.a.       1         3           3           8
Disqualified    I
* Recovery rates on the portion of commercial banks' portfolio rediscounted with BCH under
the IV Agricultural Credit Project.
Source: FONDEPRO, Banco Central de Honduras.



IBRD 16747R1
Z 86- . o ~~~~~~~~~~r    , b  b    ean6'5eo os,we;E!ELZ
j B E L I Z E              _Nfr.,L1NQ  X,                                                                                                                                           _er.hll_F                              BEruATEMALIZE'
Caea~~ ~.eee~'~*     GUATEMALA ;1-
| _ -  t 7 , * II _ _ _ ' '                                                                                     (  H O N D U RH AS5  /
EL SALVADOR      ' NICARAGUA
GUL T E MA;A   L                                               A                                               A  S 
SonaosoAso ~~'^   Col    us     j ..ev.I.q9   @                tL5.ov.>{ I                       \                                                    Paved Roads
' S~n;oo^loo*'               /                       I.                   EIS,,                                                                      G  rl / orvel Roads
ER A Ci R AdDs
Ab Rko A R      Irs d. * . 
EL  SALVADOR                                                                                                                                                                       Macs AXSCodF  ICARAGUA CAIrHONt
Pie;|o)>          J M f oe0 lt, NlF/L     )} iP_    _   Oeoorojent oundiOres
, DJ~  oascOPoo-    -    InternctJonoal Boundcries
~~~~~~~~~~~ ,1_ E_OITR 0  <                      <     ~         f/~                                 25       tr        75      IDO0                         1.200 -1800o
-~~~~~EU                                                                                                                          Recla Off,ce0LU;           MLS0   55  e          0
R.                                                                                                   -- -  - r'.  - ,.0 -  200 ,
NOVEMBER R9e0












