Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4$A'
Report No. P-4803-H0
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt25.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDUIRAS
FOR A
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
August 22, 1988
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
US$1.00 = L2.00
L1.OO    =  US$0.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASUREMENTS
1 Hectare (ha)    = 10,000 m2
1 Metric ton (mt) = 1,000 kg
1 Kilometer       -  1,000 m
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
FACACH        =       National Federation of Credit Uni'ori
FIs           -       Financial Intermediaries
UPCA          -       Agricultural Credit Project Unit
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HONDURA
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SWOAY
Borrower:                  Republic of Honduras
Beneficiary:               Central Bank of Honduras
Amounts                    US$25.0 mi,lion equivalent
Terms:                     Twenty years, including five years of grace, at
the standard variable rate.
On-Lending Terms:          The Borrower would relend the equivalent of
US$22.5 million of loan proceeds to the Central
Bank of Honduras on the same terms and
conditions as the Bank loan. The Central Bank
of Honduras, through its Agricultural Credit
Project Unit (UPCA), would relend loan funds to
participating financial intermediaries (FIs).
The National Federation of Credit Unions
(FACACH) would borrow certain loan funds (US$2.5
million) from the Central Bank acting as trustee
of the Borrower. FIs and FACACH would receive
loan funds in Lempiras at an initial rate of 12%
p.a., approximately equal to the marginal cost
of funds to commercial banks. This rate would
allow a spread sufficient to cover UPCA's
administrative costs, and foreign exchange
risks. FIs would relend project funds to final
borrowers initially at 16% p.a., approximately
the market rate. Rediscount and on-lending
rates would be reviewed and revised as needed to
reflect changes in the marginal cost of funds of
the commercial banks and market on-lending
rates, respectively. Subloan specific terms and
conditions would be consistent with the agreed
credit regulations.
Finaneing  Plan:                                            USS million
IBRD                                  25.0
Central Bank                           2.5
Participating FIs                      6.3
Sub-borrowers                          5.8
TOTAL                               39.6
Economic Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Staff Apptaisal Report:    Report No. 7206-HO
Maps                       IBRD No. 20748
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforw nce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authori. tion.



MEMORANDUM AND RECHMKENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE(ONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.       The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed development
credit to Honduras for US$25.0 million is submitted for approval. The proposed
loan would be on standard Bank terms with 20 years maturity, including five
years of grace, and would help finance an agricultural credit project.
2.       Background.  Agriculture is the most important sector of the Honduran
economy, employing more than 50% of the labor force, accounting for over 252 of
GDP, and generating two-thirds of exporta earnings. In the early 1980s output
virtually stagnated, but in 1983-86 the sector recovered to a growth rate of
2.7%. The recovery was the result of favorable weather for the expansion of
coffee and basic grains production, improvement in the export price of bananas,
and increases in the production of livestock products for the local market.
Although some improvements in productivity have been achieved recently, full
exploitation of the sector's potential has been constrained by shortages of
medium- and long-term finance in part due to below market on-lending interest
rate policies and uncertainties regarding rural property rights which hamper
credit operations, in particular, for small-scale producers, Inadequate exten-
sion and research programs, and the anti-export biased trade regime including an
increasingly overvalued currency and cumbersome procedures and controls on es-
ports.
3.       The Government of Honduras has increasingly recognized the importance
of reinforcing its commitment to a liberal external trade regime and sound do-
mestic macroeconomic management for improving levels of production and resource
productivity. It is also supporting ongoing and strengthened proSrams of agri-
cultural research, extension, and agricultural credit. The Government is en-
couraging expansion of both existing agricultural export commodities and the
introduction of new agricultural product lines targeted at promising market
niches. The main measures that have been introduced include the streamlining of
bureaucratic procedures and controls affecting exports, and the extension of
eligibility to trade foreign exchange at market prices to all commodities.
These measures are expected to improve agricultural export incentives. The
macroeconomic adjustment program developed by the Government, to focus mainly on
substantial improvements in the balance of payments and a reduction in fiscal
deficit, is expected to be supported by a Bank operation being presented for
Board consideration concurrently with the proposed operation. The agricultural
sector adjustment operation expected to be appraised in mid-1989 would focus
mainly on improving the internal and external trade regime for agricultural
covmodities, the land tenure policy framework and sector organization to promote
more effective and efficient agricultural extension and research programs.
These measures would complement the rural financial sector reforms to be
undertaken under this project. The latter would aim at improving rural financial
markets so that they can contribute more positively and efficiently to the
development of the agricultural sector. As the broad reforms are implemented,
increased demand for rural credit for productive purposes is expected. Term
funds are not readily available in the financial system to satisfy current
demand for agricultural credit. Consequently, there is an urgent need to
provide term resources to this priority sector.



- 2 -
4.       Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The proposed project would provide
needed credit to a vital sector of the economy with substantial potential for
productivity increases while sector adjustment operations are being prepared. It
would also facilitate an active dialogue between the Bank and the Government on
needed overall structural reforms while introducing needed reforms in the
agricultural credit subsector. Bank involvement in the project would have a
positive impact on rationalizing overall agricultural credit policy and on the
promotion of innovative ways to channel more creait to low-income farmers. The
proposed credit policy reforms and expanded investment would increase export
earnings ot reduce import needs.
5.       Prolect Oblectives.  The project would improve the rural credit system
by rationalizing interest rates, imposing monitorable and enforceable perform-
ance criteria by financial intermediaries who participate in the project, and
identifying and promoting innovative forms of channeling more credit to low-
income producers. It would also increase agricultural growth, farm incomes, and
the balance of trade by facilitating adoption of modern technologies and crop
diversification.
6.       Project Description.  The project would include a nationwide line of
agricultural credit to support sectoral investments of US$38.6 million over a
two and a half-year period. This credit line would finance, among others,
livestock development, orchards and tree crops, soil conservation and land
improvements, farm machinery, on-farm storage, and small-scale agro-processing
facilities. The project includes an extension component (US$0.6 million) to
strengthen UPCA's capacity to serve project beneficiaries.   UPCA, with the
assistance of consultants, would organize training courses on financial,
managerial and agronomic matters for its own staff and the staff of
participating FIs (US$0.1 million). The project would also finance four special
studies (US$0.3 million):   (a) to evaluate how credit for marketing agencies
and other intermediaries could encourage on-lending to low-income farmers;
(b) to investigate and propose legal, regulatory and procedural changes which
would increase the effectiveness of chattel mortgages for securing agricultural
credit; (c) to examine the system of rural property rights and land titles in
order to improve the system's ability to use land mortgages to secure
agricultural credit; and (d) to study transaction costs on financial
intermediation and ways to reduce them. The project would be implemented by
UPCA which would revise its Operational Manual to achieve greater
decentralization. An Executive Committee would coordinate agricultural credit
policies. FIs, including credit unions affiliated to FACACH, would be required
to fulfill performance criteria to participate in the project. This would
provide them with incentives to improve financial performance and ensure that
project funds would be on-lent through sound FIs. About 1O0 of the loan would
be channeled through FACACH to small-scale producers who are members of credit
unions. Steps would be taken to unify and raise to market levels and marginal
cost of borrowed funds, the interest rates and rediscount rates, respectively,
on other agricultural credit lines. Administration of externally funded
agricultural credit lines would be gradually unified under UPCA to better
coordinate agricultural credit policies.
7.       The total cost of the project would be the equivalent of US$39.6 mil-
lion, with a foreign exchange component of US$10.6 million (28%). A breakdown
of costs and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. A description of the
proposed procurement arrangements and the disbursement schedule are presented in
Schedule B. A timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank
Group operation in Honduras are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. A map
is also attached. The Staff Appraisal Report, No. 7206-HO, dated July 22, 1988
is also attached.



- 3 -
8.       Actions to be Aareeds  During negotiations agreement was obtained from
the Government that: (a) before February 28, 1989, (i) UPCA would sign the
contracts to implement the extension service component, and Cii) it would
restructure its Executive Committee; (b) before May 31, 1989 UPCA would develop
a cost accounting system and implement it by July 31, 1989; (c) the four atudies
carried out ander terms of reference and timetable acceptable to the Bank would
be completed not later than May 31, 1989 and the recommendations implemented not
later than July 31, 1989; (d) FIs would fulfill agreed monitorable criteria to
participate in the project and that such criteria would be strictly enforced;
and (e) it would unify in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the Bank:
(i) rediscount and on-lending rates on agricultural credit lines at levels which
reflect the marginal cost of funds and market rates respectively, and (ii) the
administration of foreign-financed agricultural credit lines. Conditions of
Loan Effectiveness would be the following: (a) that at least two project
administration contracts between the Central Bank and FIs have been signed on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank; (b) that the subsidiary loan
agreements between the Government and the Central Bank of Honduras and between
the latter and FACACH have been signed; (c) that the adjustments to on-lending
rates on agricultural credit lines are being carried out in accordance with
agreed levels and timetable; and (d) that credit regulations including limits of
authority for subproject approval and requirement to review and revise
rediscount and on-lending rates at least once every six months in. accordance
with the agreed methodology, have been issued by the Central Bank.
9.       Benefits.  Principal project benefits would includes  (a) a contribu-
tion towards the rationalization of agricultural credit policies, in particular
with respect to interest rates; (b) greater credit access for low-income produ-
cers; (c) improved efficiency in financial intermediation; (d) increased
efficiency in production from more intensive utilization of available resources;
and (e) greater product diversification.
10.      Risks.  (a) Implementation of needed macroeconomic structural reforms
might fall short of what is necessary to restore stable growth. This could in
turn depress future demand for agricultural credit. The actions taken and to be
taken as part of the 1988 Government's macroeconomic action plan reduces such
risk as they demonstrate the Government's commitment to carry out the adjustment
program successfully. Specifically, a more liberal foreign exchange regime,
together with very limited alternative investment credit, would mitigate the
risk of insufficient demand for project funds; and (b) financial difficulties of
FIs may lead to inefficient allocation and poor recovery of project funds. The
eligibility and performance criteria for participation of FIs in the project
have been designed to reduce this risk.
11.      Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply
with the Articles of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 22, 1988



Schedule A
HONDURAS
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ESTINATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Estimated Cost:                   Local a/         Foreian        Total
--------USS million-----------
General line of credit               28.4            10.2          38.6
Extension service to farmers          0.5             0.1           0.6
Training                              0.0             0.1           0.1
Special studies                       0.1             0.2           0.3
Total                                29.0            10.6          39.6
aI Inclusave of taxes and duties, which are negligible.
Financing Plan:                       Local       Foreign      Total
-US$ million---------
IBRD                            14.4         10.6         25.0
Central Bank/Government          2.5          -            2.5
Participating FIs a/             6.3          -            6.3
Sub-borrowers b/                                           5.8
Total                       29.0         10.6         39.6 cl
a/   15S of subloans made by FIa (Commercial Banks and National Bank for
Agricultural Development) to small-scale producers and 25X of subloans
made by such FIs to other producers.
b/   Small-scale producers would covtribute at least 101 towards investment
costs while other producers would contribute at least 202.
c/   The Government of the Netherlands is actively considering a grant of
about US$2.9 million to the Government of Honduras to finance certain
project components, in particular, the line of credit through FACACH,
and some of the proposed studies. However, the grant could not be
confirmed at the time the project was negotiated. Therefore, the
financing plan does not reflect such possible cofinancing. In the
event the Dutch grant is provided, the proposed financing plan and
project cost, if necessary, will be adjusted.



Schedule B
HONDURAS
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
Procurement
Goods, services and civil works to be financed under the credit
line wc.uld be diverse and procured by large numbers of sub-borrowers. Most
of these are expected to be supplied locally. Therefore, bulk procurement
through international competitive bidding or other mechanisms would not be
appropriate. Sub-borrowers would purchase items of their choice in local
markets that offer a broad spectrum of local and international suppliers
following normal commercial practices of the sector, acceptable to the
Bank. Whenever practicable, but in any event for all purchases of
US$100,000 or more, the FIs would require that sub-borrowers obtain
quotations from at least three suppliers, and confirmation of the order
would require the F1's prior approval. Consultants, most of whom would be
internationally recruited in accordance with Bank Gu.1.delines, are estimated
to cost US$0.55 million. All terms of reference and draft contracts for
consultants would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
Disbursements
Category
Credit through BCH                             902 of subloans rediscounted
i) to small-scale producers        4.5
ii) to other producers             16.0
Credit through FACACH to            2.5       1001 of subloans on-lerd to
small-scale producers                              credit unions for small-
scale producers
Extension Services, Training
and Special Studies               1.0       1001 of expenditures
Unallocated                         1.0
TOTAL                          25.0
Estimated                           1989       1990       1991         1992
Disbursement (Bank FY)              -----------------US$ million---------
Annual a/      8.25 b/      7.00       6.75         3.0
Cumulative     8.25        15.25      22.00        25.0
a/ Projections consistent with disbursement profile for Bank Group financed
agricultural credit projects in Honduras.
b/ Includes initial deposit in Special Account of US$4.0 million equivalent and
up to US$2.5 of retroactive finanzing.



Schedule C
HONDURAS
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TIMETABLE FOR KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a)  Time to prepares                 7 months
(b)  Prepared bys                     Agricultural Credit Project Unit
assisted by the office of the
Superintendency of Banks and the
Department of Economic Studies of the
Central Bank of Honduras and the
National Bank for Agricultural
Development.
(c)  Fi.at IBRD M_ssion:              November 1987
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departure:     March 21, 1988
(e)  Negotiations:                    August 17-19, 1988
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:   December 31, 1988
(g)  List of relevant PPARss          Honduran Agricultural Credit Project
(Cr. 628-HO)
PPAR 5755



SCheduge D
Page i of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS 1/
A. Statement of Bank Loans
(As of March 31, 1988)
(USS million)
Fiscal                                                       Amount less         Undis-
Loan No.     Year         Borrower               Purpose                Cancellations         bursed
-..---.-- -. -- -- -- --- -- - --- -- -    . ....... ............... .... ........ . ................... ... ... ......
27 loans and 12 credits fully disbursed                  494.84
1673       1979    Honduras            rourism                                13.52           1.12
2284       1983    Honduras           Agricultural Credit                     45.00           1.19
2421       1984    Honduras           Water Supply                            19.60          13.4S
2583       1985    Honduras           Municipal Development                    6.90           5.2t
2703       1986    Honduras            Industrial Credit                      37.40          27.44
2804   3/  1987    Honduras           Primary Education                        4.40           4.40
Total                                                    621.66
Of which has been repaid                                 126.82
Total now r-tstanding                                    494.84
Amount sold              : 4.46
Of which has 3een repaid:  4.46                            0.00
Total now held by Bank  2/                               494.84
Total undisbursed                                                        52.87
--------------- ~ ~ ~     ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      u---.-
1/ rhe status of the projects listed in Part A is in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which
is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors
on April 30 and October 31.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustent.
3/ This loan became effective on April 5, 1988.
LoanStatus:1HON-3-88:al.k60
EBArevalo/LA2CO
May 6. 1988



Schedule D
Page 2 of 2
HONDURAS
B. Statement of IFC Investments
As of March 31, 1988
(USS Million)
Fiscal                                                                    ---.-Original Approvals--------
Year           Obligor                        Type of Business           Equity        Loan      Total
. .......................................................................... ...... ............. . ...... ........................
1964-66   Emp. de Curtidos Centro-             Tannery
Americana S.A. (ECCASA)                                         0.06        0.30        0.38
1969-70   Cia. Pino Celulosa de                Pulp and Paper
Centroamerica (COPINO)                                         0.08        0.00        0.08
1978      Textiles Rio Lindo, S.A.
de C.V.                           Textiles and Fibers            1.00       9.00       10.00
1986      Granjas Marinas                      Shrimp Factory                 0.58        0.00        0.58
Total gross commitments                                             1.74       9.30       11.04
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                            0.16        6.90        7.06
Total comtmenits now held by IFC                                    1.58       2.40        3.98
**suffuses  wuaunsuun  uuwas
IFC Investments:HON3-88
EPArevalo:LA2CO
June 29, 1988



