Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Ad £9Pt/- Ho
Repot No. 7206-HO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HONDURAS
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
August 22, 1988
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official dutes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
US$1.00 - L2.00
L1.00    -  US$0.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASUREMENTS
1 Hectare (ha)    . 10,000 m2
1 Metric ton (mt) - 1,000 kg
1 Kilometer       -  1,000 m
1 Mm3             -  1.0 million m3
1 m3              = 1,000 liters
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BARADESA      -       National Bank for Agricultural Development
BCH           -       Central Bank of Honduras
FACACH        -       National Federation of Credit Unions
FEPROEXAA     -       Federal Association of Agricultural and Agro-
industrial Producers and Exporters
FHIA          -       Honduran Foundation for Agricultural Investment
FIs           -       Financial Intemnediaries
FRR           -       Financial Rate of Return
GOH           -       Government of Honduras
INA           -       National Agrarian Institute
INFOP         -       Institute for Professional Training
MFPC          -       Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
MRN           -       Ministry of Natural Resources
PTAU          -       Private Technical A&ssistance Units
UPCA          -       Agricultural Credit Project Unit
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL Use ONLY
HONDURAS
FOUlRTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
I.    LOAN AND PROJECT SUMNARY ........................ 
II.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ........................3..............3
A.  Introduction:  Economic Background ...................... 3
B.  Agricultural Sector ..................................... 4
Role in the Economy ..................................... 4
Sectoral Development Policy Framework ................... 4
Principal Non-Financial Institutions in the Sector ......5
C.  Financial Sector ........................................ 6
Sector Overview ......................................... 6
Agricultural Credit Issues .............................. 8
Bank/IDA Involvement in the Sector ...................... 9
Bank Strategy in the Agricultural Credit Sub-Sector .... 10
III.  THE PROJECT ................................................ 12
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement .............. 12
Project Obiectives and Description ..................... 12
Project Implementation ................................. 14
Lending Terms and Conditions ........................... 16
Project Cost and Financing ............................. 19
Procurement ............................................ 19
Disbursement ........................................... 20
Accounting and Audits .................................. 20
Management Information System .......................... 21
Financial Analysis of Investment Models ................ 22
Project Risk ........................................... 22
Environment Impact ..................................... 23
IV.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATIONS ............................................ 24
Annexes
1.  EXTENSION SERVICES TO FARMERS                   .        .           34
A. Private Technical Assistance Units ...................... 34
B. Group Extension Service ................................. 35
This report w'as prepared by an appraisal mission which visited Honduras in
March 1988. The mission included Ms. Graciela Lituma (Bank) and Messrs.
Robert Vogel and Oscar Urbina (Consultants). Ms. Silvia Castro (Bank)
assisted the mission in processing quantitative information.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
2.    TRAINING COMPONENT
Introduction .................         .    .     .... s ...... 40
A. Management and Administration Skills .........     .# ..... 40
B. Banking, Financing and Accounting Skills ................ 40
C. Computer Skill Techniques .............................. 41
D. General Agriculture and Extension Techniques ............ 41
E. Summary .     ....................................        ........ 41
3.    TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR SPECIAL STUDIES TO
BE SUPPORTED UNDER THE PROJECT              .... 44
A. Study on Chattel Mortgages               ..  44
B. Study on Land Titles and Tenure Security ................ 44
C. Study on Credit for Low-Income Producers
through Informal Channels .......................... ..... 45
D. Study on Transaction Costs            .     ....... 46
4.  PARTICIPATION IN THE PROJECT              . .          .       48
A. Commercial Banks.                  .......  .             48
B. BANADESA                  ... 49
C. FACACH and Affiliated Credit Unions           .      .    50
5.    ILLUSTRATIVE INVESTMENT PLANS .        ........              51
Introduction ............+*.-.-.--*..... oo-....---------.***¢51
Financial Models     .       .... . ..... . ....... 51
6.    SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE .59
Tables
1.    Main Financial Indicators..... . ............. 26
2.    Ratio of Agricultural Portfolio to Agricultural GDP .27
3.    BANADESA:  Ratio on Portfolio Quality        ..28
4.    BANADESA:  Operating Costs in Relation to its Portfolio....29
5.    Number and Value of Subloans Granted by Activity under
Previous Bank PrG'ects.        ....... .....    ..     ..... .30
6.    Suimmary of General Conditions of Bank Credits and Loans....31
7.    Total Project Costs .............               . .  ....   32
8.    Disbursement Schedule ......     ..      ..................... .33



FOURTR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Honduras
Beneficiary:        Central Bank of Honduras (BCH)
Loan Amount:        US$25.0 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayable in twenty years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
On-Lending Terms:   The Borrower would relend the equivalent of US$22.5 million of
loan proceeds to the BCH on the same terms and conditions as the
Bank loan. The BCH, through its Agricultural Credit Project Unit
(UPCA), would relend loan funds to participating financial inter-
mediaries (FIs). The National Federation of Credit Unions
(FACACH) would borrow certain loan funds (US$2.5 million) from
the BCH acting as trustee of the Borrower. FIs and FACACH would
receive loan funds in Lempiras at an initial rate of 122 p.a.,
approximately equal to the marginal cost of funds to commercial
banks. This rate would allow a spread sufficient to cover UPCA':
administrative costs, and foreign exchange and cross currency
risks. FIs would relend project funds to final borrowers
initially at 162 p.a., approximately the market on-lending rate.
Rediscount and on-lending rates would be reviewed and revised at
least once every six months to reflect changes in the marginal
cost of funds of the commercial banks and market on-lending
rates, respectively, and to ensure that on-lending rates are
positive in real terms. UPCA would rediscount 85Z of subloans
made by FIs to small-scale iroducers, 752 of subloans made to
other producers and 1002 of subloans made by FACACH to credit
unions. Small-scale producers would contribute at least 102
towards investment costs while other producers would contribute
at least 202. Subloan srecific term and conditions would be
consistent with the agreed credit regulations.
Proiect Obiective:  The project would improve the rural credit system by
rationalizing interest rates, imposing monitorable and
enfor:ceable performance criteria by FIs participating in the
project, and promoting innovative forms of channeling more credit
o low-income producers. It would also increase agricultural
owth, farm incomes, and the balance of trade by facilitating
_*ption of modern technologies and crop diversification.
Project
Description:         .ie project would includes (a) a general line of credit to
finance investments and complementary working capital for such
items as livestock development, orchard and tree crop
establishment, land conservation and improvement, on-farm
storage, farm machinery, and agro-processing facilities (972 of
total cost); (b) extension services and training (2Z); and
(c) special studies to improve credit access for low-income
farmers (1X).



- 2 -
Prolect Benefitas   Principal project benefits would includes (a) a positive
contribution towards the rationalization of agricultural credit
policies, in particular with respect to interest rates;
(b) greater credit access to low-income producers; (c) improved
efficiency in financial intermediation; (d) increased efficiency
in production from more intensive utilization of wvailable
resources; and (e) greater product diversification.
Proiect Risks:       (a) Implementation of needed macroeconomic structural reforms
might fall short of what is necessary to restore stable growtb.
This could in turn depress future demand for agricultural credit.
The actions taken and to be taken as part of the 1988 action plan
reduce such risk as they demonstrate Government's commitment to
carry out the adjustment program successfully. Specifically, a
more liberal foreign exchange regime, together with very limited
alternative investment credit, would mitigate the risk of
insufficient demand for project funds; and (b) financial
difficulties of FIs may lead to inefficient allocation and poor
recovery of project funds.  The eligibility and performance
criteria for participation of FIs in the project have been
designed to reduce this risk.
Estimated Cost:                    Local a/         Foreign        Total
------US$ million-----------
General line of credit               28.4             10.2          38.6
Extension service to farmers          0.5              0.1           0,6
Training                              0.0              0.1           0.1
Special studies                       0.1              0.2           0.3
Total                                29.0             10.6          39.6
al Inclusive of taxes and duties, which are negligible.
Financing Plan:                     Local           Forelgn        Total
--------------US$ million-----------
IBRD                                 14.4             10.6          25.0
Central Bank/Government               2.5              -             2.5
Participating FIs                     6.3                            6.3
Sub-borrowers                         5.8              -             5.8
Total                                29.0             10.6          39.6
Estimated                           1989      1990        1991        1992
Disbursement (Bank FY)              -----------------US$ million---------
Annual         8.25 1/      7.00       6.75         3.0
Cumulative     8.25        15.25      22.00        25.0
1/ Includes initial deposit in Special Account of US$4.0 million equivalent.
Economic Rate of Returns   Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report No.: 7206-HO
map                        : IBRD NO 20748



II. THE AMGICULTUSRL AND FnRNuCIAL SECTOR
A. UIRODUCTIONR ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
2.1      During 1987, Honduras was subject to a series of external shocks
that unmasked the long term structural problems affecting its economy. A
sharp drop in coffee prices, Honduras' most important export, combined with
a drastic reduction in net voluntary external financing, from US$226
million in 1985 to minus US$23 in 1987, cut the supply of foreign currency
to the economy precipitating a balance of payment crisis. To deal with
such crisis, the Government (GOH) carried out a series of ad hoc measures
which allowed the country to avert, though only temporarily, a massive
financial disequilibrium and to achieve some positive results during 1987.1
The latter was possible by: (a) a large increase in arrearages; (b) an
expansion of hidden exports encouraged by a large spread between the
official and the free market exchange rates; (c) strong increases in the
money supply to finance the public sector deficit; and (d) a reduction in
publ.'c investment. However, as the measures to achieve these objectives
were not fully consistent, it is unlikely that the economy can sustain the
1987 performance unless a more comprehensive and consistent policy package
is put into place.   Indeed, despite efforts made during the first four
months of the year, the country's dramatic loss of foreign exchange had
translated into ci- rent inability to service its external debt obligations.
2.2      Recognizing the serious nature of the disequilibria affecting the
economy, GOH has defined, in cooperation with the Bank, a three-year
macroeconomic adjustment program to address both short- and medium-term
imbalances. The main objectives of the program are tos (a) accelerate
exports' growth--through market determined valuation of foreign exchange
and trade policy reforms--and cuntrol domestic expenditures in order to
achieve a strong balance of payment without restoring to arrears
accumulation; (b) increase public revenues and reduce expenditures so as to
reduce the public sector deficit to levels that can be financed with
resources from abroad and from non-inflationary domestic resources; Cc)
increase private savings and efficiency in financial intermediation; and
(d) strengthen investment productivity to be able to speed up medium- and
long term growth. During the second quarter of 1988, GOH took specific
actions towards: a significant reduction in the fiscal deficit, an
expansion of the authorized number of products that can be traded at
foreign exchange market prices, and a reduction of excess liquidity in the
system. These actions were established as pre-conditions for amending the
Third Industrial Credit Project (Loan 2703-HO approved in April 1988) to
reallocate uncommitted funds to finance general imports in support to GOHIs
first steps towards the 1988 adjustment program. This operation marked the
first phase of the Bank's support for the Honduras medium-term
macroeconomic adjustment program.
2.3      The Bank strategy for Honduras emphasizes medium-term structural
adjustment. However, in view of the urgent need to control the current
financial crisis, the Bank's strategy is also focussed on support of GOH's
program of macroeconomic adjustment in the short-term. A structural
11 Real GDP grew at 4X; non-financial public sector deficit dropped from
6.42 of GDP in 1986 to 5.3Z, while inflation rate was 2.5?, the lowest
of any Latin American country.



- 4 -
adjustment loan (SAL) to be presented for Board consideration in the first
quarter of FY89 concurrently with this operation, is addressing additional
stabilization measures during 1988 and setting the basis for the medium-
term adjustment program in 1989, while a follow-up SAL II, planned for the
second half of FY89, would support the implementation of the 1989 action
plan and focus on struccural adjustment measures needed during 1989-1990 to
sustain the achievements in the medium-term. Under the umbrella of the
adjusted macroeconomic framework, the Government has agreed to receive
financial assistance during FY89-91, and hence the Bank is prerating, a
series of sector adjustment operations in public enterprise adjustment and
restructuring, power, agriculture, trade policy and finance to correct the
fundamental structural imbalances in the respective sectors. The proposed
project to be presented for Board consideration concurrently with the
proposed first SAL, would address the most pressing imbalances affecting
financial intermediation, in particular in the agricultural sector (paras.
2.15-2.19).
B. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR.
Role in the Economy
2.4      Agriculture is the most important sector of the Honduran economy,
employing more than 50% of the labor force, accounting for over 25Z of GDP,
and generating two-thirds of exports earnings. In addition to forming the
economic base of the rural sectors, agro-processing and trade also represent
important sources of employment and Income. Of the total land area of
about 11.2 million ha, about 1.7 million ha (15%)--primarily the areas in
alluvial valleys--are suitable for cropping. About 501 of potential
cropping area is actually under crops, while the remainder is pasture lands
or forests. At the same time, about 750,000 ha, primarily suited to
forestry, have been cult_vated with basic grains by small farmers.
2.5      Agricultural sector output grew at an average rate of 2.61 p.a.
over the 1980-86 period. In the early 1980s, output virtually stagnated,
but in 1983-86 the sector recovered as a result of favorable weather for
the expansion of coffee and basic grains production; improvement in the
export price of bananas; and increases in the production of livestock
products for the local market. Although some improvements in productivity
have been achieved recently, full exploitation of the sector's potential
has been constrained by shortages of term finance in part due to below
market on-lending rate policies, and uncertainties regarding rural property
rights which hamper credit operations, in particular, for small-scale
producers, inadequate extension and research programs, and the anti-export
biased trade regime including an increasingly overvalued currency and
cumbersome procedures and controls on exports.
Sectoral Development Policy Framework
2.6      Aware of these constraints to sectoral growth, GOH has
increasingly recognized the importance of reinforcing its commitment to a
liberal external trade regime and sound domestic macroeconomic management
policies as the underpinning for achieving improved levels of production,
resource productivity and rural incomes. It is also supporting
strengthened programs of agricultural research, extension, and increasing
the flow of agricultural credit. GOH is encouraging an economically
efficient expansion/upgrading of both existing agricultural export



commodities and introduction of new agricultural product lines targeted at
promising market niches. Measures that have been introduced during the
last year include the streamlining of bureaucratic procedures and controls
affecting exports and the extension of eligibility to trade foreign
exchange at market prices to all commodities. These measures which are
expected to improve agricultural export incentives are being pursued under
the proposed first SAL (para. 2.3).
2.7      The agricultural sector adjustment operation, under preparation
and expected to be appraised in mid 1989, would address the structural
imbalances which hamper sectoral performance by focusing on the
rationalization oft (i) internal &.ad external trade regime of agricultural
commodities, (ii) land policy framework including land titling system,
(iii) productive structure of certain agricultural activities which are
facing serious difficulties (e.g. sugar and forestry), and (iv) sectoral
organizational structure with a view to increasing the capability to assess
relevant macroeconomic and sectoral policy issues and to have a more
result-oriented framework and better staffing for research and extension
activities. The rural financial sector reforms to be undertaken under this
project (paras. 2.15-2.19) would be complemented by these measures. As the
broad reforms are implemented, an important expansion in the demand for
rural credit is expected to be put to productive uses.
PrinciRal Non-Financial Institutions in the Sector
2.8      The Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock within the Ministry
of Natural Resources (MRN) is responsible for establishing and implementing
agricultural policies. Research and extension services, provided to
farmers mainly through different units under the MRN has been applied too
thinly and inefficiently due mainly to shortages of budgetary funds but
also to lack of coordination among agencies. Currently these services are
being supported by the Interamerican Development Bank (IDB) through the on-
going PROFOGASA Project (Ln. 162/iC-HO) and a proposed new loan now under
consideration. To improve the cost effectiveness, efficiency and
coordination of these services, GOH has prepared a draft law to create the
Directorate of Agricultural Science and Technology to integrate all
sectoral research and extension activities into a decentralized agency
under the administration of the MRN. This draft law foresees also the
promotion of private technical assistance units to service medium- to
large-scale producers and hence decrease GOH's financial burden by
complementing GOH's efforts in extension and research activities. Research
activities are also carried out by the Honduras Foundation for Agricultural
Investment (FHIA), a private institute created with the assistance of USAID
to provide research and to generate adequate technologies for the main
export crops, in particular, for non-traditional crops. The GOB, with the
assistance of USAID, has also promoted the creation of the Federal
Association of Agricultural and Agroindustrial Producers and Exporters
(FEPROEXAAH), a private enterprise that, together with the FHIA, has
undertaken the task of addressing the technological constraints,
specifically for nontraditional exports. Extension efforts to be supported
under the project would be closely coordinated with these institutions.
2.9      In addition to the above-mentioned institutions, the National Bank
for Agricultural Development (BANADESA) (para. 2.19) and the National
Agrarian Institute (INA) are the most important institutions in the sector.



- 6 -
The latter is responsible, among other things, for land acquisition and
distribution. Increased GOH efforts to grant land titles to farmers has
resulted in an increase of private ownership. However, land titles issued
by the INA do not always provide full rights over the land. Therefore, the
project would include funds to study the issues related to rural property
rights and the security embodied in different types of land titles for
constituting and executing mortgages for agricultural credit (para. 3.7).
Other issues contained in tae overall land policy framework would be
addressed under the proposed agricultural sector operation (para. 2.6).
C. FINANCIAL SECTOR
Sector Overview
2.10     The Honduran financial system is currently in a relatively low
level of development and dominated by commercial banks. The system is
composed of 14 commercial banks, two development banks, seven savings and
loans associations, and six private insurance companies, four of which have
ownership links with the banking system. Honduras has a social pension
fund which is rather important, and financial firms and leasing companies
with a marginal role in the financial system. In addition, there are about
2,000 non-bank lenders registered with the Ministry of Finance and Public
Credit (MFPC) and a number of nonregistered moneylenders.
2.11     The efficient operation of the financial system is severely
impeded by macroeconomic factors.  These include a serious disequilibrium
in the balance of payments, a large GOH deficit financed through the
domestic financial system, and inconsistent and distorting interest rates
and credit allocation policies.  Various ad hoc measures taken by GOH to
cope with balance of payment disequilibria have introduced significant
distortions in the financial system, but the main impact of such measures
has been the need to pay relatively high interest rates on deposits to
maintain the satisfactory degree of domestic deposit mobilization Honduras
enjoys. The fiscal deficit has increasingly been financed by GOH bonds
redeemable on demand and paying attractive tax-free rates of interest and
by high and increasing reserve requirements against deposits. These
reserve requirements2 not only have controlled domestic liquidity but have
also allocated a large and increasing share of domestic deposits to finance
the fiscal deficit at low or zero rates of interest. Therefore, loans to
the private sector have been scarce and expensive. In addition, GOH
attempts to control lending interest rates at unrealistic low levels in the
above-mencioned context, has aggravated credit rationing and financial
disintermediation. Consequently, the problem of high real lending interest
rates3 and limited access to credit, especially by marginal borrowers,
cannot be resolved without substantial reduction in the balance of payment
and public sector deficits. These two issues are being addressed as part
of the macroeconomic adjustment program jointly developed by GOH and the
2I The current level of reserves established by the Central Bank of
Honduras (BCH) is 35Z (either in cash or GOH bonds) against both
domestic and foreign liabilities.
31 Maximum interest rates are fixed by BCH currently at 172 while the
inflation rate during 1987 was 2.52 p.a. and in 1988 is estimated to
reach about 92 p.a.



- 7 -
Bank as the basis of the first SAL (para. 2.3). The second SAL would
address the need to review and revise Interest ceilings so as to be
compatible with macroeconomic conditions and to unify rediscount rates on
all BCH credit lines at a rate equal to the marginal cost of funds to
commercial banks. The more general interest rate issue, in pxrticular the
need to eliminate controls gradually on on-lending rates system-wide would
be addressed as part of the proposed financial sector adjustment operation
currently under preparation (para. 2.3.). In the meantime, the proposed
project would take the first steps towards the unification of rediscount
rates and interest rates on agricultural credit lines at the marginal cost
of funds and market levels, respectively.
2.12     Some commercial banks have been experiencing serious liquidity
problems and at present, a small number appear to be close to insolvency
(Table 1). Their liquidity problems have been less obvious recently
because of the substantial increase in the monetary base during 1987.
However, GOH is taking steps to reduce the excess liquidity as part of the
first SAL. An important aspect of the liquidity icsue has been the
increasing reliance on BCH credit lines and rediscounts rather than on
domestic deposit mobilization. This has been especially pronounced in the
case of weaker banks as rediscount rates competed quite favorably with the
interest rates such banks have to pay to mobilize resources.4   These banks
also tend to have serious problems with loan repayment, high leverage and
apparently inadequate reserves against nonperforming loans.
j          2.13     The office of the Superintendency of Banks within BCH is the
!          national regulatory body for the banking system.  The technical capability
of the Superintendency of Banks was substantially increased after the
collapse of a major Honduran bank in the early 1980s and is currently
carrying out thorough and competent audits. However, the Superintendency
may not have adequate resources to audit banks with sufficient frequency
and clearly does not have adequate powers to disclose and enforce its
findings. The Superintendency's effectiveness as a regulatory body is
being strengthened as part of the Third Industrial Credit Project (Ln.
2703-HO). In this context, its internal procedures to control and
supervise the banking system would be reviewed and revised. Areas to be
addressed include: adequacy of reserves for different categories of
questionable loans, clear rules on accrual of interest an nonperforming
loans, and clearer and strict rules with respect to capital adequacy and
loans to related parties. Although all loans to owners and employees of
banks must be approved by BCH's Board, loans to firms controlled by bank
owners and employees need not be reported unless one individual owns more
than 50 of the firm.
2.14     The foregoing issues would be addressed first under the proposed
first SAL and followed on under the proposed financial sector operation
currently under preparation (para. 2.3). Nonetheless, to ensure that
proposed project funds would be properly and efficiently channelled to
eligible borrowers, while providing an incentive for nonperforming banks to
improve their current financial situation, the proposed project would
require participating financial intermediaries (PIs) to fulfill specific
criteria with respect to solvency and loan recovery (paras. 3.12-3.15 and
Annex 4).
4I Marginal cost of borrowing funds is about 13S p.a. while BCH rediscount
rate ranges from 5S to 12Z p.s.



-8-
Agricultural Credit Issues
2.15     Loans outstanding for agriculture relative to value-added in the
sector have increased markedly in recent years, thus appearing to satisfy
the growing financial needs of the sector (Table 2). However, this
indicator tends to overestimate the extent of new financiel resources
available to the sector. First, a significant proportion of this credit,
especially under BANADESA's portfolio, is frozen in overdue loans and
includes the capitalization of accrued interest. Second, because interest
rates to final sub-borrowers in a number of agricultural credit lines are
at levels substantially below market levels, there appears to be widespread
diversion of loan funds to nonagricultural activities, and no institution
appears to have adequate power or incentives to control such diversion. In
addition, small-scale producers have limited access to credit from formal
financial institutions because lending interest ceilings at below market
levels have limited the financial spread to FT and, hence, tended to bias
the allocation of credit away from such borrowers who are perceived to be
riskier and because banks typically demand urban guarantees, apparently due
to inadequacies in the chattel mortgage mechanism and uncertainties
embodied in various types of land titles. Small-scale producers have to
use financing from informal channels at interest rates which are
substantially above those prevailing in the formal market.
2.16     The proposed project would address these issues by emphasizing the
solvency and loan recovery of FIs (paras. 3.12-3.15), and by giving the
Agricultural Credit Project Unit (UPCA) withirn the BCH defined
responsibilities and powers with respect to failures by participating FIs
to carry out project activities in accordance with agreed procedures (para.
3.11). In addition, the project would include studies of different
approaches to improving the access of smaller farmers to credit, the
effectiveness of different guarantee mechanisms, and issues related to land
titles (para. 3.7).
2.17     High transaction costs are a serious problem for both borrowers
and financial intermediaries, especially when dealing with external credit
lines.  These high transaction costs are largely the result of requirements
and procedures involved in operating a large number of credit lines with
different terms and conditions including different rates of interest. In
addition, some portion of transaction costs is undoubtedly due to rationing
excess demand for credit that arises from below market rates of interest.
To combat these inefficiencies, the proposed project would harmonize the
rediscount, on-lending interest rates, spreads and administrative
procedures on these credit lines (para. 3.19).
2.18     BANADESA, the main financial institution channeling funds to the
agricultural sector and the only formal financial institution that lends to
a significant number of small-scale farmers, was created in 1982 as a
successor to the National Development Bank.   This change was based on an
in-depth study of the National Development Bank that recommended a major
restructuring. Despite the change in name and numerous studies and
recommendations, BANADESA continues to have significant losses and
liquidity problems resulting from high operating costs and severe loan
recovery problems (Tables 3 and 4). If the book value of BAKADESA's assets
were corrected to account for problem loans in its portfolio, investments



in nonviable subsidiaries, accrued interest on non-performing loans, and
notes due from various other public sector agencies, its net worth would be
negative by more than L100 million (US$50 million). Recognizing the
insolvency and lack of liquidity of BANADESA, various international
agencies have continued to use BANADESA tc channel resources by creating
various trust funds. Unfortunately, these trust funds have increased
BANADESA's costs because they require different terms and procedures,
result in the creation of new units to manage each trust fund, and in a
weakening of responsibility for recovery of trust fund loans.
2.19     The need for a major restructuring of BANADESA, including the need
to rationalize its trust fund operations, would be addressed under the
financial sector adjustment operation currently under preparation (para.
2.3). However, the project, by limiting the participation of BANADESA to
the branches that show adequate loan recovery (para. 3.13 and Annex 4)
would create a strong incentive for BANADESA to improve loan recovery
performance in branches that currently do not qualify to participate in the
project. This interim measure of providing needed financial resources to
performing branches is justified as BANADESA is currently the only formal
financial institution that lends to a significant number of small-scale
individual agricultural producers and because GOH is undertaking initial
steps to strengthen BANADESA institutionally. BANADESA's management has
recently developed a comprehensive rehabilitation plan focused on reducing
loan arrears, a substantial reorganization directed at improving loan
recovery, and a major recapitalization.
Bank/IDA Involvement in the Sector
2.20     The Bank has helped develop Honduran agriculture with five
agricultural credit projects, implemented by BCH. Thp First Livestock
Credit Development Project financed with Cr. 179-HO for US$2.6 million
became effective in October 1970, and was fully disbursed by January 1975,
a year before the original closing date. The Second Livestock Development
Project financed with Cr. 434-HO for US$6.6 million became effective in
January 1974 and was fully disbursed by the end of 1979, a year after its
original closing date; the environment created by the Agrarian Reform Law
slowed down the demand for project funds.
2.21     The First Agricultural Credit Project financed with Cr. 628-HO for
US$14.0 million became effective in December 1976. The project included a
global line of credit for the agricultural sector and a large technical
assistance component to maintain the momentum of the agrarian reform.
While the funds for the line of credit were fully disbursed on schedule,
the project closed two years after its original closing date due to slow
implementation of the technical assistance component.   The Second
Agricultural Credit Project which was financed with an IDA credit for
US$5.0 million (Cr. 1005-HO) and a Bank loan for US$20.0 million (Ln.
1833-HO) became effective in September 1980, and closed as envisaged on
September 30, 1985. The Third Agricultural Credit Project (Ln. 2284-HO)
for US$45.0 million became effective on January 31, 1984. By December 31,
1987, the original closing date, all funds were fully committed. By June
1988 loan funds were fully disbursed.
2.22     Over the last 18 years there have been gradual changes in Bank-
financed agricultural credit projects. First the number of FIs has grown



- 10 -
from 7 to 13 including BAKADESA. Second, the activities financed have
changed from exclusively cattle ranching to investments in almost any
economically viable productive enterprise. Third, spreads have been
revised over time to cover intermediation and fiuancial costs. The latter
did not, however, include a provision to cover foreign exchange risk costs
which were expected to be born by BCH. Due to the recent devaluations of
the US dollar with respect to the Bank's basket of currencies, the accounts
of the Agricultural Credit Project Unit (UPCA) have shown accumulated
losses amounting to US$2.5 million over the last two years. These losses
have been absorbed by retained earnings of previous years, however, this
situation could not be sustained in the future. Wourth, on-lending
interest rates have been positive in real term At lower than market
rates. They have been adjusted over time taking into account the cost of
Bank funds to GOH without due consideration to the marginal cost of funds
to commercial bank and market levels on-lending rates. Fifth, due to lack
of enforceable criteria, the projects have been less successful in
encouraging the necessary changes in BANADESA's financial performance and
in channeling more funds to small-scale producers.  Sixth, the technical
advice provided by UPCA to sub-borrowers, on an intensive individual basis
through contracts with MRN and other research and extension agencies,
although very effective, has become too expensive and limited to a too
small number of farmers.
2.23     The abovementioned changes and issues have been taken into account
in the design of the proposed project, as well as required further
adjustments to the credit system. As mentioned in the Project Completion
and Audit Reports on the above-mentioned projects, UPCA has achieved
considerable success in implementing Bank-financed agricultural credit
projects in Honduras. Since its establishment in 1970, UPCA has developed
into a sound institution, applying consistent standards for project
preparation, appraisal and supervision and providing sub-borrowers with
considerable technical advice to carry out the proposed investments. As
the main source of term financing for the sector it has contributed
significantly to agricultural development and to promote agricultural
diversification. Its current level of technical expertise and experience
supports the proposed consolidation of all agricultural credit lines
financed by foreign donors through BCH under its administration. Given its
long and well established relationship with FIs, there is, however, a need
to further decentralize its operations and simplify lending procedures with
a view to decreasing transaction costs (para. 3.16 and 3.17). The
decentralization of UPCA would be an important element of the proposed
project.
Bank Strategy in the Agricultural Credit Sub-Sector
2.24     Bank Strategy in the agricultural credit sub-sector aims at
improving rural financial markets so that they can contribute more
positively and efficiently to the development of the agricultural sector.
This objective would be achieved by focusing on: (i) a gradual elimination
of distortions in credit allocation created by the existence of subsidized
and controlled interest rates and margins; (ii) improving the credit
delivery system by simplifying lending procedures and creating incentives
for financial intermediaries to improve their performance; and (iii)
increasing credit access for low-income producers by identifying and
promoting innovative forms of channeling credit to such producers.



- 11 -
Substantially increased demand for rural credit is expected to be put to
productive uses as a result of the broad reforms: First to improve the
balance of payments and fiscal deficit as part of the SAL (para. 2.2)s
Second to improve the agricultural sector environment, in particular (i)
the internal and external trade regime for agricultural commodities, (ii)
the land tenure policy framework and (iii) the sector organization to
promote more effective and efficient agricultural extension and research
programs as part of the agricultural sector adjustment operation (para.
2.7); and Third to achieve greater efficiency in financial intermediation
through the elimination of distortions in subsidized credit lines system-
wide and the strengthening of the banking system as part of the financial
sector adjustment operation (para. 2.11). While these reforms are being
implemented, term funds are not readily available in the financial system
to satisfy current demand for agricultural credit. Consequently there is
an urgent need to provide term resources to this priority sector through a
bridge loan while continuing to prepare the sector adjustment operations.



- 12 -
III. THE PROJECT
Oritin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.1      The proposed project was prepared by the UPCA within BCH.  MRN,
the office of the Superintendency of Banks and the Department of Economic
Studies of BCH and BANADESA, assisted in its preparation. The project was
appraised by the Bank in late March 1988. It was negotiated in Washington
in mid August 1988.
3.2      Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The proposed project would
provide needed credit funds to a vital sector of the economy with
substantial potential for productivity increases, while sector adjustment
operations are being prepared. It would also facilitate an active dialogue
with GOH on needed structural reforms and start introducing reforms in the
agricultural credit sub-sector. Bank involvement in the project would have
a positive impact on rationalizing overall agricultural credit policy and
on the promotion of innovative ways to channel more credit to low-income
farmers. The proposed credit policy reforms and expanded investment in
activities which would increase export earnings or reduce import needs
would be supportive of the macroeconomic adjustment program being
implemented by the Government and supported by the Bank through the first
SAL operation.
Prolect Objectives and Descriition
3.3      The primary objective of the project would be to improve the
agricultural credit delivery system by: (a) defining and implementing a
program to rationalize rediscount and on-lending interest rates and margins
for agricultural credit; (b.) imposing monitorable and enforceable
performance criteria for FIs to participate in the project; (c) identifying
and promoting innovative forms of channeling more credit to low-income
farmers; and (d) simplifying lending procedures to decrease transaction
costs. The project would also increase agricultural growth, farmer
incomes, and export earnings by facilitating adoption of modern
technologies consistent with increased efficiency, crop diversification,
and soil conservation. To that end, the project would include a global line
of credit, extension services, training, and special studies.
3.4      General Line of Credit (US$38.6 million).  The credit line would
support medium- and long-term sectoral investments over a two and a half
year period through rediscounting facilities from BCH to participating FIs
(US$36.1 million). This would finance such investments as livestock
development, orchard and tree crop establishment, land conservation and
improvement, farm machinery, on-farm storage, seed processing and
distribution, small-scale agro-processing facilities5 and collection
centers. Pasture improvement would be emphasized over land clearing as a
means to increase animal feed. The project would also finance needed
investment capital by private technical assistance units to be developed
under the project (para. 3.5). It would also include short-term credit to
complement term investment and a line of credit (US$2.5 million) to finance
low-income farmers, through rural credit unions.



- 13 -
3.5      Extension Services (US$0.6 million).  This component would aim at
strengthening UPCA's technical extension capacity to service project
beneficiaries (see Annex 1). To reduce its budgetary pressure, .UPCA would
develop private technical assistance units (PTAU) in high potential areas
to assist medium- to high-income producers to improve production
techniques. These private units would serve a number of farmers on an
individual basis. To help the development of such private units and as a
transitionary measure UPCA would provide a portion of the first year's
costs of private technical assistance units as grants to farmers.
Thereafter, the costs of private technical assistance would be borne
totally by sub-borrowers. UPCA would use group and mass media (radio and
television) techniques to provide free extension services to low- to
medium-income sub-borrowers. UPCA would review the current contract with
MRN and enter into a cooperative agreement with the Institute for
Professional Training (INFOP). UPCA's extension service would be provided
on a collective basis using producer groups to replace the current
intensive individual service furnished by UPCA to its clients which has
become too expensive and has limited its coverage to a small number of
farmers (para. 2.22). Technological packages offered would be simple and
adapted to different regions and to producer group needs. Assurances were
obtained that the contracts between UPCA and MRN and INFOP to promote mass
media, group and private technical assistance would be signed not later
than February 28, 1989 (see Annex 1).
3.6      Training (USSO.l million).  This component would be directed
mainly to UPCA staff and agricultural loan officers of participating
financial intermediaries. The program would be designed to support fully
the proposed decentralization of project activities and the emphasis on
private technical assistance and group extension service. To that end the
proposed training would focus on four main fields: (a) management and
administration skills, mainly for UPCA staff; (b) banking, financial and
accounting matters for UPCA and FI staff; (c) computer skill techniques for
UPCA staff; and (d) general agricultural and extension techniques,
specially mass training procedures for UPCA staff. Training would be
organized by UPCA with assistance of consultants and will be closely
coordinated with other units within the BCH responsible for training FI
staff. The terms of reference for the training courses to be financed
under the project are detailed in Annex 2.
3.7      Snecial Studies (US$0.3 million).  The project would finance four
special studies mainly to identify and promote innovative ways to channel
more credit to low-income farmers. Past surveys have indicated that
farmers participate actively in informal financial markets often through
marketing agents. Therefore, a study would be carried out to evaluate the
extent to which credit provided to marketing agents and other
intermediaries could increase market competition and encourage on-lending
on competitive terms to low-income producers. In addition, because all
agricultural producers in Honduras find their access to bank credit reduced
due to imperfections in the execution of agricultural chattel mortgages and
the uncertainty of property rights currently embodied in different types of
land titles, the project would finance studies to: (a) investigate and
propose the types of legal, regulatory, and procedural changes that are
necessary to increase the effectiveness of using agricultural chattel



- 14 -
mortgages and to reduce the cost of establishing them; and (b) examine the
major issues of rural property rights and land title security for
constituting and executing mortgages for agricultural credits. The project
would also finance an in-depth study of transaction costs of UPCA, Flo and
ultimate borrowers to identify intermediation costs that could be changed
to form the basis for envisaged discussions with the Bank about possible
ways to reduce transaction costs andlor to review FI's margins. These
studies would be carried out by UPCA during the first year of the project
with the assistance of external consultants. Assurances were obtained that
the studies would be carried out under terms of reference and detailed
timetable satisfactory to the Bank and that they would be completed not
later than May 31, 1989. Assurances were also obtained that the
recommendations of the studies would start to be implemented not later than
July 31, 1989 in accordance with a timetable agreeable to the Bank.
Proiect Implementation
3.8      The project would be implemented by BCH through its UPCA.  Loan
proceeds would be committed over a two and a half-year period. UPCA, which
has satisfactorily implemented the five previous agricultural credit lines
financed by the Bank, would rediscount subloans approved by qualified
participating Fls (eligible commercial banks and BANADESA branch offices).
Funds to be used by rural credit unions affiliated with FACACH would be
channeled from MFPC to FACACH but administered by BCH. Participating FIs
would sign a project administration contract with BCE and FACACH with the
MFPC and BCH that would stipulate the rediscounting arrangements, interest
rates and margins, and the terms and conditions for qualifying for the
project. Prior to contract signature, UPCA with the assistance of the
Superintendency of Banks, would evaluate the institutional capability of
each Fl on the basis of the financial, technical and administrative
parameters discussed in paras. 3.12-3.15. The signature of at least two
project administration contracts between BCH and Fls would be a condition
of loan effectiveness.
3.9      Executive Advisory Committee:  The Executive Advisory Committee
created under the Ln. 2284-HO, would be restructured to include senior
representatives 1 of BCH (Chairman), BANADESA, MWR, MFPC, Ministry of
Planning, Coordination and Budgeting, and the Honduran Association of
Banking Institutions to coordinate agricultural credit policies and to
resolve agricultural credit issues related to UPCA's operations. To that
end UPCA would provide the Committee with the results and recommendations
of the special studies to be carried out under the project. UPCA would
also provide the Committee with information on its lending program and
semi-annual progress reports including an evaluation of the performance of
participating FIs. UPCA's director would be the secretary to the
Committee. Assurances were obtained that the Executive Advisory Committee
would be restructured by February 28, 1989 and meet at least twice a year
thereafter.
3.10     Aaricultural Credit Unit (UPCA).  Present staff at UPCA's
headquarters includes a project director, an economist in charge of
monitoring and evaluation, a financial analyst in charge of financial
11 Ministers, presidents or directors of their respective organizations.



- 15 -
relations with FIs, and three national coordinators (portfolio management,
technical assistance, and training). Due to the current size of UPCA and
the process of decentralization under the project, headquarters' staff
would be reorganized tot (a) provide for a deputy director with adequate
power to substitute for the project director as necessary; (b) abolish the
coordination positions at headquarters: and (c) strengthen the financial
unit with at least two additional higher level staff. There are five
Regional Offices (Tegucigalpa, San Pedro de Sula, Choluteca, La Ceiba and
Santa Rosa de Copan) and three Subregional offices (Juticalpa, Danli, and
Comayagua) reporting to the Tegucigalpa office; this structure would not be
expanded but rather would be internally restructured and consolidated for
greater autonomy in decision making. Technical staff in UPCA now totals
50, and no additional staff would be required to implement the project.
The structure, specific functions, and responsibilities of UPCA, together
with the administrative and technical support needed for its efficient
operation is embodied in UPCA's Organization and Operational Manual.
3.11     Given the experience gained during the implementation of previous
Bank-financed projects and in order to simplify lending procedures,
responsibility for loan processing would be shifted to participating PIs
while UPCA staff would be responsible for developing, approving and
promoting technical norms as well as operational procedures to prepare,
evaluate and control investment plans to be financed under the project.
Preparation of farm development plans would be the sole responsibility of
either the farmers or the agricultural loan officers of Fls. The latter
would obtain their own bank's approval for the proposed financing prior to
submitting documents to UPCA for rediscounting purposes. Investment plans
estimated to cost US$35,000 equivalent or more or packages of Investment
Plans to be financed through FACACH estimated to cost US$100,000 or more
would require UPCA's prior approval while those costing US$300,000
equivalent or more would require the Bank's prior approval with no subloan
to exceed US$1.5 million equivalent. These amounts would include balances
on any outstanding subloans previously financed under the project or under
any previous Bank Group-assisted project. Disbursement and supervision of
subloans would be the full responsibility of PIs, whose capabilities would
be enhanced by training to be provided under the project (para. 3.6). UPCA
staff would supervise all financial intermediaries and all subloans
financed under the project using a sampling strategy based on subloan size
and prior performance of each Fl. UPCA would be provided with sufficient
authority to suspend the rediscounting facilities of any Fl that does not
meet performance requirements (paras. 3.12-3.21). Terms and conditions for
subloans under the project are included in the agreed Credit Regulations
(Reglamento de Credito). BCH's ratification of agreed Credit Regulations
would be a condition of Loan Effe,.tiveness.
3.12     Financial Intermediaries (FIs)s  The FIs for the project would be
private commercial banks, BANADESA, and FACACH, with certain of its
affiliated credit unions. These intermediaries would be qualified to
participate in the project based on their ability to channel funds
efficiently to the agricultural sector (specific criteria are detailed in
Annex 4). Efficiency for a commercial bank would be measured through bank
solvency. In addition, a commercial bank would be permitted to participate
only if it has an acceptable recovery ratio for its UPCA's portfolio. This
assessment would be based on the latest financial information to be
supplied by the Superintendency of Banks, UPCA and the commercial banks.



- 16 -
3.13     Criteria to be applied to BANADESA, the only Fl that lends to a
significant number of low-income farmers, would differ. Although the
institution has severe subloan recovery problems, there are substantial
differences in performance among branches. The criteria proposed for
BANADESA would ensure that project funds would be on-lent through branches
with acceptable loan recovery rates. This would also provide an incentive
for BANADESA to improve performance in the branches that now do not
qualify for project participation. To induce BANADESA to mobilize
deposits, the amount of rediscounts for which BAHADESA would be eligible
would be related to the amount of voluntary deposits it mobilizes from the
public.
3.14     FACACH would participate based on a satisfactory external audit
and would on-lend to qualified affiliated credit unions in rural areas
(outside Tegucigalpa and San Pedro de Sula). Criteria for a credit union
to participate in the project would require communitywide membership with
an adequate proportion of members engaged mainly in agriculture. a
satisfactory external audit, and a statement by FACACH confirming that the
credit union is fully capable of participating in the project.
3.15     Continued participation by a F1 in the project would be
conditioned on maintaining adequate subloan recovery rates, especially for
its UPCA's portfolio (including subloans under previous Bank financed
projects), and on compliance with appropriate terms and conditions for
project subloans based on UPCA's inspection of a sample of all such
subloans.  In addition, for commercial banks and FACACH and its affiliated
credit unions, continued participation would depend on an assessment that
it continues to be solvent and has an acceptable recovery ratio according
to agreed criteria which calls for an improvement of such ratio over time.
BANADESA's continued participation would depend on improvement in its
overall recovery rates. Assurances were obtained that the agreed Specific
criteria for FI's participation in the project be strictly applied by UPCA
(Annex 4).
Lendina Terms and Conditions
3.16     The Borrower would be GOH which would relend US$22.5 million to
BCH on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, in accordance with a
subsidiary loan agreement to be signed by GOH and BCH. The signing of the
subsidiary loan agreement between GOH and BCH would be a condition of loan
effectiveness. To achieve the overall goal to unify rediscount rates on
all BCH credit lines at a rate equal to the marginal cost of domestic funds
to commercial banks and eliminate controls gradually on on-lending rates
system-wide (para. 2.11) the project would: (i) require that the
Government pools together under UPCA and on a phased basis all agricultural
credit lines externally financed through BCH (para. 3.17); (ii) set the
rediscount rate for project funds relent in Lempiras initially at 12Z p.a.,
approximately the marginal cost of funds, and the on-lending rate at 162
p.a., approximately the market interest rate, so as not to discourage
domestic deposits mobilization (para. 3.17); (iii) require that such rates
be adjusted periodically to reflect changes over time in the marginal cost
of funds of the commercial banks and their market on-lending rates (para.
3.20); and (iv) require that rediscount and on-lending rates on other



- 17 -
agricultural credit lines be readjusted on a phased basis so as to achieve
102 p.a. and 142., respectively by January 1, 1989 (para. 3.19) and be
readjusted semiannually thereafter to gradually reduce the difference
between the rediscount rate and the marginal cost of funds of the
commercial banks and the interest rate and the market on-lending rates.
3.17     Direct foreign exchange risks would not be borne by BCH but the
interest rate for lending by BCH to FIs (initially 122) would allow a
spread of 1.52 points to cover UPCA's operating expenses and, initially,
approximately 2.52 points to cover all foreign exchange risk. Given the
current parallel foreign exchange rate and the disequilibrium in the
balance of payments, 2.52 points may not be fully adequate to cover
possible devaluations of the Lempira with respect to the US dollar, and no
reliable predictions can be made concerning the position of the US dollar
vis-a-vis the basket of currencies. However, pooling together agricultural
credit lines financed by multilateral agencies (including the Bank) and
bilateral donors, some of which are provided on relatively soft terms, and
setting up the rediscount rate initially at 122 p.a. would provide BCH with
a spread over its cost of funds sufficiently large to establish a reserve
to cover the risk of a possible devaluation of the Lempira with respect to
the dollar and the other currencies. It wonld also help to unify on-
lending rates at a level which would reflect market rates. During
appraisal GOH and the major donors (mainly USAID) agreed with the need to
unify the administration of externally financed agricultural credit lines
under UPCA and to unify, on a phased basis, on-lending and rediscount rates
on agricultural credit lines. GOH is currently holding discussions with
donors to agree on how to implement such adjustments on a phased basis. At
negotiations, a timetable to unify administration of externally funded
agricultural credit lines under UPCA was agreed with BCH; the unification
will have to be approved by the external donors (mainly USAID).
3.18     GOH, through MFPC, would also relend the equivalent of US$2.5
million of the loan proceeds to FACACH in Lempiras to be administered by
BCH. The signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between BCH as trustee
and FACACH would be a condition of loan effectiveness. The funds would be
on-lent to FACACH at an initial rate of 122; the rate BCH would relend
project funds to FIs. This rate would be reviewed every six months as the
marginal cost of funds to commercial banks changes over time (para. 3.16).
GOH would assume the foreign exchange risk for which it would keep the
margin between the cost of Bank funds and the relending rate to FACACH
after deducting 1.52 for UPCA to cover its operating expenses. FACACH
would relend loan funds to participating credit unions with a spread of 22
points to cover its risks and administrative costs. Each participating
credit union would relend project funds to its own members at interest rate
and other terms and conditions prevailing on loans made from each credit
union's own internal funds. 2
3.19     The current system of differentiated interest rates has no
economic justification and contributes strongly to the fragmentation of
financial markets and to the diversion of funds to other than prescribed
uses. Therefore, a timetable to implement the first steps towards the
2/ Current interest rates to final borrowers charged by credit unions
fluctuate from 142 to 182 p.a. while inflation is estimated at 2.52
p.a.



- 18 -
unification of credit lines at a rediscount rate that reflects the marginal
cost of commercial banks' borrowed funds and on-lending rates at a level
which reflects market rates of interest to final borrowers was agreed under
the project. This tiletable calls for adjustments on all short-term
agricultural credit lines, except for basic grains, as follows: (i) a
rediscount rate of 102 and interest rate to final borrower of 142 by
January 1, 1989, and (ii) from July 1, 1989, for semiannual adjustments at
levels which will allow a gradual reduction of the difference between the
rediscount rate and the marginal cost of funds to financial intermediaries
and between the interest rate to final subborrowero and the market interest
rate. These levels will be agreed between the Bank and the Government at
least 30 days prior to the date such adjustments would need to be
introduced. Agreement was reached that the Bank would be authorized to
suspend disbursements if no agreement was reached on the level of
adjustment of such rates. Rediscount and on-lending rates on short-term
agricultural credit lines have been already adjusted by one point, to 92
and 132, respectively, on July 1988. In addition, it was agreed that by
July 1, 1989, the Government will prepare and implement thereafter, and In
consultation with other foreign donors and the Bank, a timetable to adjust
rediscount rates and on-lending rates on other lines of credit financed by
foreign donors through BCH with the view of rationalizing the agricultural
credit system. Further unification of rediscount and on-lending rates and
margins on agricultural credit lines and on non-agricultural credit lines
would be pursued first under the proposed SAL II thereafter under the
proposed financial sector operation.
3.20     Agricultural rediscount and on-lending rates and margins under the
project would be variable. They would be reviewed every six months (or
more frequently if the Bank and GOH agree that major economic changes
warrant such a review) and adjusted as necessary according to Honduran
financial market conditions and to the marginal cost of funds to commercial
banks (para. 3.16). To decrease borrowers' perceptions of possible
excessive risks with respect to changing cash flows, adjustments in
interest rates would be limited to no more than one percentage points each
six month period unless a significant change in inflation rate had occurred
during the immediately preceding six-month period. Agreement was obtained
that under the project on-lending interest rates and rediscount rates and
margins would be variable, reviewed at least once every six months, and
revised as needed taking into account the marginal cost of funds to
commercial banks and market on-lending rates of interest to final
borrowers. They are included in the Credit Regulations.
3.21     BCH rediscounts would be up to 75% of subloans to medium- and
large-scale producers, and up to 851 for smAll-scale producers. A
small-scale producer is defined as one having total assets directly related
to agricultural activities of less than L80,000. To encourage deposit
mobilization, proposed rediscounts would be less than in earlier Bank-
assisted agricultural credit projects. The higher discount for subloans to
small-scale producers should encourage lending to this group of producers.
Subloans to credit unions would be 1001 financed from project funds because
most such loans would be small. Amortization schedules from FIs to BCH and
from FACACH to the MFPC would be the same as the repayment schedule from
final borrowers to FIs. Sub-borrowers' repayment schedules would be set
according to the requirements of individual investment plans. Lending



- 19 -
terms and conditions, including the limits of authority of regional UPCA
offices and Fls for subloan approval (para. 3.11) are specified in the
agreed Credit Regulation.
Project Cost and Financing
3.22     The project cost, Including taxes and duties which are negligible,
is estimated at US$39.6 million oquivalent of which about 27Z represent
foreign exchange costs. The project would include a general line of credit
for the agricultural sector (US$38.6 million) under which any investment
conforming to the Credit Regulations would be eligible. At least 30S of
all project's funds for agricultural credit would be channeled to
small-scale producers. The project would also include Extension Services,
Training and Special Studies components (US$1.0 million) (Table 7).
3.23     Extension Services (except UPCA's contribution to farmers' cost of
private technical assistance), Training, and Special Studies would be fully
financed with external funding. Small-scale producers would contribute at
least 101 and other producers at least 202 toward subproject costs.
Regarding the credit line, FI would finance 15S and 251 of the subloans of
small-scale and other producers, respectively, while the balance would be
financed by UPCA through rediscounts from BCH. Loans to credit unions
through FACACH would be fully financed by MFPC. The Bank would finance 901
of the subloan amounts rediscounted by BCH and 1001 of the loans financed
by MFPC to FACACH or about 631 of total project costs, drawing from the
foreign financed Special Account to be established under the project (para.
3.26). The proposed level of external financing is justified by the
chronic paucity of local resources available, in part as a result of heavy
external debt servicing, and by the critical need for an infusion of
investment funding Into the banking system for the agricultural sector.
The following summarizes the financing plan proposed:
USS Million        x
Sub-borrowers                        5.8         14.6
Financial Intermediaries             6.3         15.8
Central Bank                         2.5         6.3
Bank                                25.0        63.3
Total                    39.6       100.0
3.24     The Government of the Netherlands is actively considering the
possibility of providing a grant to the GOH to finance certain project
components, in particular, the line of credit through FACACH, and some of
the proposed studies that would benefit small farmer access to credit.
However, neither a firm commitment, nor the specific amount or components
to be financed out of the grant could be obtained at the time the project
was negotiated. Therefore, the financing plan does not reflect such
possible cofinancing. In the event the Dutch grant is provided to the GOB,
the proposed financing plan, project cost, and legal documents, if
necessary, will be modified to reflect such grant financing.



- 20 -
Procurement
3.25     Goods, services and civil works to be financed under the credit
line would be diverse and procured by large numbers of sub-borrowers. Most
of these are expected to be supplied locally. Therefore, bulk procurement
through international competitive bidding or other mechanisms would not be
appropriate. Sub-borrowers would purchase items of their choice in local
markets that offer a broad spectrum of local and international supplies
following normal commercial practices of the sector, which are acceptable
to the Bank. Whenever practicable, but in any event for al' purchases of
US$100,000 or more, the FIs would require that sub-borrowers obtain
quotations from at least three suppliers, and confirmation of the order
would require the FI's prior approval. Consultants, most of whom would be
internationally recruited in accordance with Bank guidelines, are estimated
to cost US$0.55 million. All terms of reference and draft contracts for
consultants would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
Disbursement
3.26     Loan proceeds would be committed in about two and a half-years and
disbursed in about three and a half-years. Proposed disbursement is
consistent with disbursement profiles for previous Bank-financed
agricultural credit operations in Honduras. Bank disbursements would be
made against: (a) 90% of the amouats rediscounted by BCH for FIs; (b) 1002
of the amount on-lent by FACACH to the credit unions; and (c) 1002 of the
expenditures for training, technical assistance, and special studies except
for transfers to farmers for technical assistance cost. To facilitate
disbursement, a Special Account would be established in BCH with an initial
deposit from Bank funds equivalent to four months of estimated peak UPCA's
requirements for all project components (US$4.0 million). Bank
disbursement to replenish the Special Account would be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Relevant documentation in support of such
statements would not be submitted to the Bank but would be retained by UPCA
and made available to Bank review missions. The project would
retroactively finance up to US$2.5 millions for subloans rediscounted by
UPCA after April 1, 1988 that comply with terms and conditions proposed
under the project. An estimated schedule of loan disbursements is
presented in Table 8.
Accountint and tudits
3.27     BCH, through UPCA, and all participating FIs including BANADESA,
FACACH and credit unions, would maintain separate project accounts and keep
detailed records deemed necessary by BCH to reflect the financial
transactions with respect to the project. Financial statements of UPCA and
all FIs, project accounts (including the Special Account), and all
statements of expenditure used to claim Bank loan reimbursements would be
audited annually in accordance with generally accepted auditing principles
consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Not
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, UPCA would submit
to the Bank, and FIs would submit to UPCA to be transmitted to the Bank,
certified copies of audit reports containing--in addition to balance
sheets, income statements and auditor's opinions on financial statements-
-separate opinions on: (a) project accounts; (b) statements of



- 21 -
expenditures; and (c) Special Account (UPCA only). Accounts of UPCA aud
all FIa would be audited by independent external auditors with terms of
reference accepta-le to the Bank.
3.2P     For participating Fla, external audit reports should include, in
addition to the usual accounting and financial aspects, an opinion
regarding the quality of the overall FI loan portfolio (including
classification of loans according to expected losses, structure of overdue
loans, and the extent of refinancing), the portfolio under the project,
the adequacy of provisions for expected losses on assets (especially on
loans and contingent assets), and the quality and accuracy of accounting
procedures. It should also include an opinion about the quality of the FIs
internal controls with respect to any misuse of subloans, especially of
those rediscounted under the project.
3.29     In addition to the external audit requirement, the Superintendency
of Banks would continue to carry out regular examinations and inspections
of the books, accounts and vouchers of both BANADESA and other FIs as
required by local law. It would be responsible for providing the Bank with
all necessary information on the overall performance and solvency of each
participating Fl and the performance of UPCA. The Superintendency would
also provide an opinion regarding each participating commercial bank's
solvency measured according to the agreed criteria, an opinion of
BANADESA's fulfillment of agreed criteria, and the performance of each
bank's project portfolio (including misuse of project funds). This
information should be sent to the Bank not later than six months after the
end of each fiscal year and every time there is a significant problem that
might affect a bank's solvency and/or the project loan portfolio.
Manaaement Information System
3.30     Quarterly and annual progress reports under past Bank-financed
projects have consistently been received in a timely manner. However,
information contained therein was not structured properly to allow a
thorough analysis of achievements versus objectives that could be useful
for management planning. Under the proposed project, UPCA's managerial
information system would b4 structured to assess its performance against
specific objectives. To that end, UPCA would introduce an adequate cost
accounting system on a regional basis to analyze costs related to specific
project activities. The management information system would also include
information on subproject supervision (stratified sampling), quantitative
Information on the quality of operations carried out by each FI, and
actions (proposed or taken) against FIs for not complying with on-lending
agreements. Management reports would also include an evaluation of the
technical assistance supported under the project. Regional offices would
prepare short reports each quarter to be submitted within the following
month to project management.
3.31     In addition to the above reports, each FI would submit semi-
annually to UPCA a report including: (a) amounts committed; (b) number and
types of subloans granted; (c) subloan disbursements made; (d) subloan
repayments against due amounts; (e) total amounts outstanding and amounts
in arrears, including amounts refinanced/rescheduled, and portion not yet
due of partially overdue loans; and (e) repayments to UPCA.   UPCA's



- 22 -
headquarters would consolidate this information, including the information
and analysis of UPCA activities (para. 3.29), and submit to the Bank no
later than February 28 and August 30 of each year, a semi-annual report on
the progress of the project as of the respective December 31 and June 30.
This infonmation would be used to formulate UPCA's annual budget which
would include a detailed program of UPCA's activities; this budget would be
submitted to the Bank by October 30 of each year.
3.32     UPCA would also carry out an analysis of transaction costs for
lending to different types of clientele, taking into account not only
UPCA's transaction costs but also the related costs of FIs and final
borrowers. The introduction of a cost-accounting system and the
transaction cost analysis would be done by UPCA's personnel assisted by
external consultants. Assurances were obtained from BCH that UPCA would,
with the assistance of external consultants and under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, develop a cost accounting system by May 31, 1989
and implement it by July 31, 1989 and carry out a transaction cost study by
October 31, 1989 and thereafter implement its recommendations no later than
December 31, 1989.
Firancial Analvsis of Investment Models
3.33    'r analyze the viability of potential investments and
technological improvements and their financial attractiveness to producers,
five illustrative investment plans have been modeled. These include: dual
purpose livestock, citrus plantation, banana plantation, other tree crop
plantation, and investments in land improvement and soil conservation
investment in support of fruit trees and grain production. Expected
financial costs and benefits are based on current domestic prices; the
modeling exercise assuLmes no real price increases. Under these
assumptions, financial Internal rates of return range between 25 and 351.
Assuming a 14.52 real cost of capital (current 17% interest rate minus 2.51
estimated inflation), the proposed investments are financially viable.
Tests indicate that sensitivity of proposed investments to adverse
movements in commodity prices is moderate. Details of model analyzed are
presented in Annex 5.
ProJect Risk
3.34     Major project risks include:
(a) GOH is undertaking a medium-term macroeconomic adjustment program
to improve the macro framework and encourage efficient growth in
all sectors including agriculture. There is a risk that
implementation of such program might fall short of what is
necessary to restore stable growth. This could in turn depress
future demand for agricultural credit. The actions already taken
and to be taken as part of the 1988 action plan and GOHI's
agreement to receive financial assistance during FY89-FY91 in
support to structural adjustments in the agricultural, financial
and trade sectors reduces such risk as they demonstrate GOH's
commitment to carry out the program successfully. Specifically, a
more liberal foreign exchange regime, together with very limited
alternative investment credit, would mitigate the risk of
insufficient demand for project funds. In addition, illustrative
models indicate that credit would be financially attractive; and



- 23 -
(b) financial difficulties of FIs may lead to Inefficient allocation
and poor recovery of project funds. The eligibility and
performance criteria for participation of Fla in the project have
been designed to reduce this risk.
Enironment Impact
3.35     The project would facilitate Investments in upecific agricultural
activities which would have a positive Impact In the rural environment by
promotingt (a) soil conservation measures in hillside cropped areas
through works such as terracing, cross-slopping, and contouring;
(b) reforestation of previously deforested land with fruit trees;
(c) con*_z'-uction of drains, flood protection bunds and sprinkler irrigation
eysetam  (in crops such as banana, plantain, and citrus) which would
contributc to conservation of soil and atmospheric humidity; and
(d) p:eveating erosion in low-quality natural grassland areas by replacing
them with Improved pastures. The project would support private technical
assistance and group training, including mass communication measures, to
launch the above-mentioned activities as part of the technical packages to
be promoted under the project.



- 24 -
IV. SMIARY OF AGEWS REACHED AND
4.1    During negotiations, agreement was reached upon the following
points 
(i}   the contracts between UPCA, MRN and INFOP to promote and finmnce
mass media, group and private technical assistance be signed not
later than February 28, 1989 (para. 3.5);
(ii)   the studies be carried out by UPCA under terms of reference and
timetable satisfactory to the Bank, be completed not later than May
31, 1989 and the recommendations of the studies be implemented not
later than July 31, 1989 (para. 3.7);
(iii)  that the Executive Committee would be restructured no later than
February 28, 1989 and would meet at least twice a year thereafter
(para. 3.9);
(iv)   the agreed credit regulations (including limits of authority for
subproject approval and the need to review and if necessary revise
rediscount and on-lending interest rates at least once every six
months to reflect the marginal cost of funds to commercial banks and
market rates of interest to final borrowers respectively) are
embodied in UPCA's Reglamento de Credito (paras. 3.11, 3.20 and
3.21);
(v)    the monitorable and enforceable criteria for FIs to participate in
the project would be strictly applied by UPCA (para. 3.15);
(vi)   a timetable to unify administration of foreign financed agricultural
credit lines under UPCA (para. 3.17);
(vii)  a timetable to implement, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the
first steps towards the unification of rediscount and on-lending
interest rates on agricultural credit lines at levels which reflect
the marginal cost of funds and market on-lending rates, respectively
(para. 3.19);
(viii) UPCA and all FIs participating in the project to be audited annually
by external independent auditors and under terms of reference and
timetable acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.27); and
(ix)   UPCA, with the assistance of external consultants and under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, to develop a regional cost
accounting system by May 31, 1989 and start implementing it by July
31, 1989 and to carry out a transaction cost study by October 31,
1989 and thereafter start implementing its recomnendations no later
than December 31, 1989 (para. 3.32).



- 25 -
4.2    Conditions of Loan Effectiveness are the following:
(t)    that at least two project administration contracts between the BCH
and FIs have been signed on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank (para. 3.8);
(ii)   that the subsidiary loan agreements between GOH and BCH and BCH end
FACACH have been signed (pars. 3.16 and 3.18);
(iII)  adjustments of rediscount and on-lending rates on agricultural
credit lines are being carried out in accordance with agreed
timetable (para. 3.19); and
(iv)   that modifications to existing Credit Regulations have teen aproved
by authorities concerned (paras. 3.20 and 3.21).
4.3   With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$25.0 million on standard
terms for Honduras.



5.4
so    `al,1    %Wit   %toSo   16WO            %ae'ta    t4a-c    t55's    %"bs    16 U         tees      tWas      stes                            $30W5  gum WA@S
oe   tsns-    siege    sates    tae          %iit    ti9-s.    ti1w        tW-      %e.-I    see-p    %ee-      es iUsa AMvA NION mom Lin
*    ~~tis  sis        5        1         i        testl  tee         ts        te-       tas       see.      tess t   si*eg    uosw  ss_u             ue
'     `MaV.    %t'*       tWI s    %494      tWe       1t's    t*$4        ti0-s      iW*     quogs     tug       %ag              susm  wU @uM VL        Ela m   
%S* tle-         stI     teli    %104        tat       hiSS      tieC     tasu    sag's Y     SaW        es       tae u0 sielmenoSmos mA nim  suituu  Am
%notlt        %9 I'    1Wt        1#1       %W'I     1W        %W        %s'       %W#X      %W§l*|    %N's     tl" #1"  9UlL  _AA110111 em U _An
se      aselot   lkst g    sWt  '             seW%'     tWa        ts't   1tss        tie %.'tu         1s66#      tea-'             smasev wasiauiiB emnlli
-a    t4s       tate      t4ts      teell    tag       tes       taoe      tess      tu        tsee     tite      teas      sues, se IS"      eaWsnoo_U__M
*  tags     t&aCr     tWs       t6ells    %tee      tess1    tes1      tagss     tis        es %"I   %4        tee %0s        egues KU1 osasea1s1mau  s
ti is           ta       test      tt-i      tart      to-       sea-c    tas       ter       tee       tea    Yt-          seges muan sosi ms       euwm
%10-            %st      ta-4  Ytas          %te       teS       tes       tes       e-s    tag         ties    toss              sles ,W@zAuM1    _m  _e
wt      16v  St      0     1641t    Ylm'       %w        %Ht'4    %Wt       %S'       %W&       %         %:        %001                91310i _awar   ou 
5      ast    %ee        tWs       tees-        ts     s%U-      tars      tst      tee-      %Wo %-le:           1ug                 sn       WOesA u
t     %wet   %tos        %4 -      tat-s     test      %"Is   t%ss         ltes's    tate     tstlo    tiWs       tot-                   esm~   iss*om nPM
us e    trs       tes       -sw s.    see-     tie       seas      teac      tes       tgsW  t-s    tos             tee               sauss mume  osmi
W see a         %ais     %W-         W-su    tWas  * |§teeW- te-        Y     at    tess      tie      t%e-s                       soaa    _assomsuan
at.    mis-sI   to% is     see-u    te4-' tU-a          %Mt       %Ws    1tee's    t-14        %Wtt      11"It    tees              e    ssets  _nss_oLi m
' tess gt    ti          tee-      %W"       tees      %ot-      9u-i      ts       %trte     tag-i     'Ue       tue                       0asummaemnww
-es   tie-es    tastw     %ta's    %te*      ta-s    tW1s   %ee-e    ti41s           tee-t    t         tatsi1   1ee-e                sat m         anwus
40~ ~          s-g     U  tse   tss-      tee-     tam *a tes           tatte     d  *e0s tee-       Utaas     *ee    tee -ea    tet                        in  od
i        s  e   tgti    tes.    terse         "'di      t          -g    WeA-S      ts        te-s    tie-        see-es                       n            e _owossi
tag      ta         t        tes-e    Iss- a    tge        s        us t      ce-,s    tWWt    Wt es     ts tes-ses                       earns ew
is    ltee-s    tMile$    tat-s       t u-    t           tt      t-i         -      1 `s tS   tail      tWi   s t             OM   N Mse                        ago
i      aU1g   se-it    ages    s%-se    is-Us           see       e4-a      tas       u-eNs    '-s       es-se     area                             mes        l
Is a t-        tal-    te-i    sag-s    %tt-s-    t-            t-a       t41       Wses      tese    ti-ag        ueW                  aiw   WAnes  AM  Wu
as    ti         to-s    ti.e        slet     ti-s    sa i tsa              tes.    tu si    t-s.    se-s    tst               sassi mss se ws __n  _uass
a-e    tee-e    tes         tusi    t-sG  t-s    saaai to.-                  tees     tees.    t-i        tstw  tees                    users sea sisnm o  as:
I     ee-a    ti-       St-s*    tu-s        sai'    tea-s      t"est     tuW       %Ws       tasil    ties         -s        aINm- ia                    e
t ue        te-       tie-      tag-s     tas       ti-       te-      tee       tst        ia.      te-       tms*@ sess msn.auiaesw 5*355
8s4pg *-woo Z1    it    01                        6        8         £          9        5                                     1 £  Z  I          SOT3vd IT8UIUTa
UO;ZBpTTosUOD
----------------------------------------- 84aeg jvT0j8mmEo)---_----------
£861 J0q.AoN JO 8B SZOIVOTpU[I TTDUWUTA UTUH
(OH-V8ZZ *u'I)
M Maroa IclaD WHIVnIDIOV UHrIR 3L NI DNILVJIUd SIV  'w1IDHO0
Lroad 1IU3D  WlVIfIf OV HIIOA
SVaflUNOH



HONDURAS
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT MRJECT
Bankinat Syste
Ratio of Agricultural P-ortfolio to Agricultural GDP
(In current toem)
1981          1982          1983           1984         1985         1986
AGRICULTURE &
LIVESTOCK             20.1          22.1           25.9          29.6          31.1         31.5
CR015                   21.3           23.4          28.3          31.1          31.1         30.2
Banana                   0.4            0.6           2.1           3.0           1.8          3.5
Coffee                  25.4           32.5          47.0          54.2          55.3         35.9
Tabaco                  74.0           90.0          96.2         117.6         130.5        130.0
Cotton                 135.9         247.5          145.0         135.3         190.8        202.0
Sugar Cane              57.8          63.4           72.8          87.4         102.0        104.9
Grains                  27.5           24.0          28.4          30.7          32.7         30.7
Rice                  84.1          68.4           69.8          89.4        115.9          84.2
Maize                 17.1          15.4           16.6          18.0          18.1         21.1
Beans                 14.6          13.8           18.1          15.6         14.8          12.2
Other Crops             26.4          27.0           24.2          27.7         29.3          11.4
LIVESTOCK               32.5          36.6           43.5          51.0         59.9          64.0
POULTRY                  7.0           8.4           10.1          12.4          14.9         14.3
FORESTRY                 1.2            1.9           1.7           2.4           2.2         1.9



-DB  AIOLL¶t65I C1!I PONM
AL?USWS~UM N116.            s M,i        inMLN                       IRM. PUIJ6          1!M   NM    Msa P1M*
1904    196      19            196     1965     1966           196        196    1966        1it"      1965   1966
REIO I CO850 SU0F6IoAL         0.66    0.4      0."4         o."     0.26      010            0.18      0.82    0.38         0.26    0.7    0.87
Ofai;ea Pr,.IFclp            0.57    0.48      0.85        0.29    0.21      0.44           0.61      0.82   0.85          0.82    0.23   0.45
ToWtllialps                  0.01    0.08      0.0         0.281   0.94      0.5             -.-       -.       .          0.23    0.94   0.95
T.gaIgam                     0.4     0.71      0.70        0.36    0.22      0.1° 0.26                0.06   0.21          0.85    0.14   0.20
El Parole.                   0.26    0.26      0.40        0.85    0.29      0.26               -     -     0.89           0.35    0.29    0.31
06.11                        0.72    0.61      0.6         0.19    0.26      0.21           0.48      0.29   0.27          0.24    0.21   0.24
rcmis                        0.21    0. 6      0.26        0.14    0.18      0.25           0.2S      0.06    0.16         0.14    0.17   0.22
La Esperueza                 0.82    0.81      0.861       0.85    0.35      0.46           0.64      0.46   0.40          0.38    0.35   0.46
Nin,  do Or0                 0.65    0.61      0.56        0.16    0.26      0.10           0.98      0.95   0.90          0.20    0.26    0.84
"an len de Fier..-                     .-       -.--.-              -.          --.                   - .- --  -            -.-     -.*    -.I
Justicalp                   0.66    0.71     0.70         0.19    0.2o      0.28           0.2s      0.85   0.87          0.21    0.29    0.80
Cate                         0.49    0.71      0.72        0.26    0.14      0.18           0.26      0.31   0.46          0.26    0.25   0.81
Choluaeca                    0.62    0.85      0.62        0.27    0.29      0.16           0.10      0.Ui   0.26          0.27    0.310   0.84              OD
"Demo                        0.a0    0.40      0.16        0.25    0.27,    0.26            0.4S      0.08    0.17         0.30    0.22    0.25
Avenida La Pa                0.00    0.'       0.64        0.15    0.09      0.06            -.-       -.-    -.-          0.65    0.09    0.06
La Pon                       0.84    0.7k      0.69        0.25    0.22      0.2S           0.00      0.00   0.10          0.25    0.22    0.19
TalwnP                       0.36    0.40      0.47        0.45    0.62      0.47           0.06      0.22   0.45          0.46    0.48   0.46
I215 II NiOD5MAL               0.42    0.62     0.40         O.38    0.85     0.46            0.18      0.14   0.22         0.29    0.29   0.40
San Pedro Soi                0.41    0.54      0.81        0.80    0.80      0.57           0.85      0.42   0.851         O.1     0.81    0.67
tom Son Pedro Swli           0.85    0.61      0.74        0.28    0.22      0.19            -    -       - .-             0.26    0.22    0.19
P"rA . Cmii..                0.29    0.36      0.42        o.60    0.60      0.84           0.0o      0.10   0:12          0.30    0.36   0.81
El Progaree                  0.20    0.42      0.57        0.67    0.84      0.40           0.11      0.10    0.14         0.24    0.20    0.20
Seat aSaara                  0.15    0.89      0.40        0.20    0.27      0.80           0.86      0.85    O.85         0.27    0.27    0.32
San Luis, 8.D.01                      .9       02           .1      02        .6.                     0.0 .n               0.21    0.21    0.V7
Soo n   S.B.                8075    0.79        . 75       0.28    0.18      0.22           00 o       o'.6   0 09         0.22    0. 17   0.8 
Se. Re d Copan               0.80    0.46      O.51        0.41    0.44      0.42           0.14      0.14   0.16          0.87    0.86   0.35
Carcl..                      0.71    0.70      0.77        0.22    0.10      0.19           0.01      0.06   0.06          0.12    0.20    0.15
OeabsoQue q0.59    0.65                       0.74         0.211    0.26     0.1U           0.11      0.21    0.19         0.22    0.24   0.17
10 III LITIUL TATUICTI         0.47    0.00     0.ui         0.89    0.36     0.29            0.57      0.61  48.51         0.45    0.42    0.55
La CalIb                     0.47    0.65      0.71        0.27    0.26      0.22           0.97      0.94  226.76         0.31    0.29    0.27
Tole                         0.85    0.85      0. 76       0.815   0.81      0.21           0.84      0.64  296.26         0.84    0.35   0.70
TOO 1                        80.66    0.74     0.74        0.80    0.22      0.22           0.68      0.76  718.85         0.66    0.51    0.92
Olachbit.                    0.42    0.51     0.00         0.C0    0.44      0.87           0.91      0.S2  426.00         0.62    0.44   0.42
Puerto LeW re                0.00    0.00     0.00         1.00    1.00      1.00            -.        -.-    -.-          1.00    1.00    1.00
0.49    0.80     0.44            0.10    0.29      0.40           0.29      0.29    0.15         0.80    0.29    0.89
_ - __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



FUOUMA!  lC.rateAL CM  . t. rtola
OPEATDU                  OPSSATDS  CnStS/             OPATDO OStS
d RFNS                  1R6T FtW                   TOAL PWRLIO
f=OMB AlFD AGENCID        lo"*    1so       in1      1N       low     t§S        lo"       1906    t
RBill I COMTo 5At6ItErAL       0.06    0.07      0.06      0.97    0.20     0.24      0.06       0.05    0.06
Oflcine Peincipal            0.05    0.00      0.07      1.1*    2.08      1.70      0.06      0.00    0.06
Teusia4apa                   0.06     0.06     0.06                                  0.o5      0.06    0.06
Csyaue                       0.00     0.17     0.11      0.26    0.11      0.06      0.0?      0.07    0.06
El Persrao                   0.07     0.10     0.07                       0.21      O.0       0.10    0.06
Deal;                        0.07     0.09     0.09      0.26    0.1U      0.12      0.00      0.06    0.06
lh,al                        0.07     0.07     0.07      2.44    1.00     0.50       0.07      0.07    0.06
LA Eop*na                    0.09    0.06      0.07      1.17    o.as     0.55       0.06      0.06    0.06
Mina da Or.                  0.07     0.00     0.06      1.22    1.2      0.67       0.06      0.07    0.06
Son Juan da Flores
Juticelps                    0.07     0.06     0.07      0.06    0.07     0.07       0.06      0.04   0.04
CateacXe                     0.0o     0.09     0.0o      0.10    0.11      0.10      0.0      0.06    0.0
Cheolutc                     0.06     0.06     0.04      0.10    0.17      0.15      0.04      0.06    0.06
I1ca.a                       0.06     0.06     0.06      0.17    0.17      0.15      0.06      0.0o    0.0o
Av nida La Paz               -0.24    2.06     1.95                                 -0.24'     2.86    1.95
La Paz                       0.20     0.20     0.17    22.87   12.74       0.49      0.19      0.20    0.1t
Talon"                       0.09     0.12     0.11      2.eS    0.49     0.86       0.09      0.10    0.06
R10 II #RO0CCOMIAL             0.07     0.07     0.07     0.24    0.26      0.17      0.06       0.06    0.06
San Padr. Smlo               0.06     0.06     0.06      1.26    1.00     0.45       0.06      0.06    0.05
*A., Son Padr. Sule          0.45     0.2      0.27                                  0.45      0.27    0.27
Pwerte Corna                 0.31     0.38     0.54      0.28    0.57     0.26       0.1S      0.19    0.1S
El Proersa.                  0.09     0.10     0.07      0.06    0.06     0.02       0.02      0.09    0.02
Santa ftrbare                0.06    0.10      0.06     11.59    9.86     0.74       0.06      0.10    0.07
San Luis. S.0.               0.04    0.09      0.06             186.00    0.2        0.04      0.09    0.07
YOM.                         0.11     0.1l     0.09      2.01    1.45     0.17       0.10      0.11    0.06
Ste. Rea de capan            0.06    0.06      0.06      0.80    0.82     0.20       0.06      0.0    0.04
Orac;en                      0.15    0.17      0.14      0.19    0.26     0.21       Q.l       0.10    0.09
O eotapaque                  0.1t    0.17      0.Ui      0.24    0.2B     0.21      0.09       0.11    0.11
RUM III LITWAL ATLNTICO        0.11     0.11     0.09     0.15    0.24   162.84       0.07      0.06    0.09
La Cib                       0.09     0.11     0.06      1.85    1.89    890.61      0.09      0.10    0.00
Tole                         0.10    0.17      0.11      0.06    0.09     68.78      0.06      0.06    0.11
Te.                          0.11     0.11     0.06      0.07    0.10    84.77       0.04      0.06    0.06
Olenchito                    0.09     0.10     0.06      2.19    1.55   678.6o       0.09      0.09    0.06
Pfart. Lo"ire                0.18     0.18     0.18                                  0.18      0.15    0.15
T 0 T A L             0.07    0.07      0.07     0.25    0.27      0.26      0.06      0.00    0.06



PSTW 1AORIIUM RM. T 660OJWT
#4mm so VA"~ ce iVLNaa ~rm By acuvzr' Wmr FMMS Wm 
*-179-t                    C-464e 040                  a _626-*         a0-61o006uo1                           2m-5               TTWL.
lb.   for"        3        MD.   NM          I       MD.    IWW          U       b.      163RD      5       No.    nmmu         s      p.       eW.r
UIVE06                      79    6,602.    100.011   SOB   14 * 25.3    7J.48    84   2091.         69.8 14255   5590S.6    76.86    2W 2       4,0.4   610.111  4,252  1803051.5
Deity and Dmdin     ~~~~4!    2,7.2    a6.2 go  W      9,60.4    78 21    266   1824          4.218    got   40,862.     61.2 1 im         .         8.1   8,297  327.802.7
....e   .dXi   w 27                . 9 0 7    .o       a  ^      ,      2.63     go    1 1          5.21  20    27.7           8.o 4245  40  21  4 5,6. 241  1.oU 1a          7.4
;as   2?    8.0S7.3    34.s      86    i,M.q    12.86        22    2,4.0       4.15      49    8,457.81    8.18    106    4,265.5      5.180   240   15,856.6
Stadin                       a      594.2      7.66      2      209.9     0.531     *                 0.069     4      460.4     0.23      4       51.91    0.1S      Is    1,776.4
F   '"                              - . -     0.06      0     1,196.2     7.411           3 5,490.6    10.81    4S    2,53.8     2.9      101o   2,796.2     3.61    22      9,16.8
PO.Itty  -  - . -    0.06      -      -.-       0.06       -     -.-        0.06     61    5,106.6      5.66     78    5,666.5     2.86    189    6,994.9: 70    S  .n  139 90011
Pig.             -     -...       0.06~~~~~~~~~~~~O'  7  216.1  2.8 8'         216.5     0.6a     55    2176         5.6      7       ,6.        25       3      ,6.
Ti.uditi.l fietris.          -      -.-        0.06      -        0,      0.06                        00 an4.J   1.04                     40       574.5     1.41             574.8
5Il,iX.                      .      - . -      0.06         -   -1-       0.06      -      -.-        0,06      1      52.       0.18      9       50.       0.       1      1,06m.0
0800                 0.04                       0 *11                       *,Dll~~~~~~~~~~.0  2  210:0  0.16     6       97:2     0:26S     6       807.2
Ra0Fs                        0        0.0      0.06      1    2,060.0    o0.8    139   12 611.?    26.06    340   19,94.3    21.21    421   40,200.1    15.11    901   74,796.1
sui ce                       -      -.- o." -  0.-                        0.06     17S   218,         3w.J26   133    , 132.1    0.9       Is    A,74.8      06 8s    48    ,90s.7
- -.-     0.06       -     -.-        O.03    113    a.30 6,     21.13   1il    6s274.2      6.96    10?    5,616.0      5.11   331    6 s198.5
T.                                                                                        000    10    4 41.1         S. i      a      26.5       .3%      s 0.06.
es"                                0.00    1  2.000.0  0.316                              0.05    a  2:034.2  0.311  10  12.316.5  0.42  ill 16 349.7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0  ~o    0~:1.5:
Planti                                        0.06                        0.069     4      36.        0.73             1 16.0    0.1is1             651.15    0.31    i      1,140.3
Cl.                          -      -                    -     -.-        o.o0      -                 0.0       6    1, 47.0      1.71     19    1,406.      0.*  7   47    2, as.5
0.6 8     -                0.06 os           730o.s    08       1 4    1,12U.0    0.98 ?9         2  40$'a    1.36     41    8 392.6
Pr A D: -                          -O.-       0.0       -     -.-        o.06     1      2,119.6     2.46     i       615.9     0.6    I6    4,760.5        2.C0     74    7,s96.0
AUODnRM          r               -            0.06       4    2,794.9     1.86      9    1,29.4       1.7n      2       48.3     0.5      8      6,63.5      2.48     51   12,646.1
TOTAL                       79   6,602.7   100.06    510   19,620.2   100.06    5S6   37,202.3   100.01  1.602   76,57.0   100.06  2.72  1,067.5   10.06  5,806  277,961 
I>
C



FOURtH 1CRICULTIRAL CREDIT PROJECT
Suery ot Genral Conditions ot Creit and Loans
CR-lMM/
CR-1790HO         CR-434-HO         CR-45N2He         PR-183f-HO            PR-22S4-HO
(US$2.6 M)        (US11.6 a)       (US$14.6 U)       (US$26.6 U)           (US$46.0 U)
1. INTEREST RATES M)
IDA/I10 to Govornment                            0.75              0.76              0.76         0.76;      0.25          Fl-xibl- rats
Government to Central Bank                       4.6               2.00              2.06          .75;      6.26          Flexible rat.
Central Bank to:
Financial intrmediarios                       5.86              6.00              S.C               12.6            Danko' rato * 1.6
Municipalities                                6.0               g.M                -                 -
Financial intsrmdlariee to tfenrs                9.06              9.60             11.66              16.             Bankn' rate * 6.6
2. PERIOD OF REPAYMENT (YEARS)
IDA/IBRD to Govornment.
Grace period                                    1                16                16                     6,10                      C
Total period                                                     so                56                    26,60                     20
Government to Contral Bank:
Grace period                                   31                16                16                     6,16                      6
Total period                                   16                20                18                    20, W                     26
Central Bank to Financial Intermeiarieo
Grace period                                  8;5               2;5               2;6                Maximum 6              Maximum 6
Total period                                  6;12              9;12              6;12              Maximum 12             Maximu  I9
Financial Intermdlarie  to Farmere
Garc  period                                  B;5               2;6               2;6                Maximu  65              Maximum 6
Total period                                  8;12              9;12              6;12              Maximum 12             Maximum 12
S. REDISCOUNT RATES (3)
Central Sank to Financial Intermediaries:         76              76;0W               70              80;85               68;86
4. INESTMENT PERCENTAGES FINANCED
Finsa4iel Intormedirie to Fe re                   so              80;6S0            80,99 W0;90                          70;6;90
Source: Mission estimates
I6
o-



- 32 -                                    Table 7
FOURTH AGRICULTRALC aCDIT PROJECT
Total Project Coet.
(In USO)
LOCAL      FOREIGN         TOTAL
COMPONENT                    COSTS        COSTS         COSTS
(A) CREDIT                           286859,464   1201958112   8J,t64,896
ARtICULTURE                      12,715,154    5,78,262   1i,451,$98
- Peranont Crop.                  8,52$0609    5,199,187    18,722,040
- Annual Crops                    1,678,125       455662      1,619.716
- Land IAprovement                8,116,66        @1,56J9     S,2 
ANML PRODUCTION                   9,872,49      8.66,60      18,241,
- LIveetock                       6,66,596      2a68,6"      11,25U,9
- Poultry, Fisheries, Swino
and Others                        65,90      1,16516       1,9N,OO
OTHER  */                         6,271,566       001,450 U,672,696
(B) EXTENSION SERVICES TO FARMERS       484,438       76,529        56,9g
(C) TRAINDNG                             47,400       6659          18,56t
(D) SPECIAL STUDTES        U2,                       248,616        275,
SUBTOTAL                          26,922,514   19,611,882    39,s588.4
CONTINGENCIES   b/                                                   47,521
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  26,922,514   16,611,882    89,561,867
/ It Includes Private Technical Aseletanco Unite, Technical A.eietnce
to Farmrs, Short-Term Credit through Credit Unlons, and Rural Induetries.
b/ 8X of (6), (C), and (D) for each year.



,, iX3 _
Table 8
t-IIDURAS
FOUR!T A ir,!T<.DURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(in US$ million)
Fiscal Year           Semi-Annual   Cummulative        S of Total
1989
2nd                   8.25 11          8.25             33.0
1990
lot                   3.50            11.75             47.0
2nd                   5.50            15.25             61.0
1991
lst                   3.75            19.00             76.0
2nd                   3.00            22.00             88.0
1992
lst                   2.00            24-O0             96.0
2nd                   1.00            25.00            100.0
1/ Includes initial deposit In Special Account of US$4.0 million
equivalent and up to US$2.5 of retroactive financing.



- 34 -                         Pago i of 6
FOURTS AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
EXTENSION SERVICES TO hENBHRS
1.       To avoid duplication of institutional offorts with the PROFOGASA
program, which would cover the same are"s previously covered by the UPCA-
MRN Cooperation Program, UPCA would review the current technical assistance
contract with MRN in order to emphasize group extension services and to
assist UPCA in promoting and organizing group and private techuical
assistance. This emphasis Is consistent with current GOH policies and
would be implemented with MRN assistance to avoid overlapplng of services
or curtailment of private sector efforts.
A. Private Technical Assistance Units
2.       Private extensionists would prefer that segment of sub-borrower
with more developed farms, with total assets of over L80,000, and having
weekly or monthly cash incomes   Based on a survey conducted by UPCA in tha
North Atlantic Region, it is estimated that producers would be willitg to
pay technical advice directed to farm accounting, saimal nutrition, health,
fertility, geneties, artificial lnsemination and other spocific practices
in order to increase productivity and hence revenues.
3.       There are three locations where Private Technical Assistance Units
(PTAU) would begin to operate: La Ceiba, San Pedro Sula and Danli. PTAU
would start simultaneously in these three regions to interchange
experiences as needed, to encourage competition to provide better service,
and to ensure that if one PTAU were to fail the whole system would not
cease to exist.
4.       No later than November 1, 1988, UPCA would complete a detailed
study of the farms in each region that could be covered by PTAU, the routes
to be followed by and a detailed work plan of activities to be undertaken,
which would be subject to review and revision as needed. Initially, farms
would be visited more frequently and for longer periods. Subsequently,
short visits once a month, depending on the farm's size and its
administrative efficiency, would be sufficient. A PTAU would consist of an
expert in livestock production, two agronomists with experience In animal
husbandry, and supporting personnel. During the first year of operation,
PTAUs would have the advice of UPCA technicians in such flelds as animal
nutrition, animal health, infrastructure for cattle handling, business
administration and related fields. Close coordination between the PTAUs
and UPCA would help to coordinate field work in different regions while
facilitate monitoring and evaluation of services, which would be UPCA's
responsibility.
5.       It is estimated that each PTAU could start with about 50 farms and
after full development the proposed team could attend about 75 farms per
month (one or two farms per day per technician, five days a week, taking
Saturdays for office work). The PTAU would be staffed to reach full
operation by the second year. Each technician would have his own vehicle
and necessary equipment.



Annex 1
-35 -                            Page 2 of 6
6       A model was prepared to demonstrate the financial viability of a
PTAU (Annex 1, Table 1). Investment is estimated at L71,750 over a two-
year period. Long-term financing of L65,000 would be required to be
disbursed over two years, while initial short-term financing of up to
L20,S00 would &lal be required. Credit needs of PTAUs would be financed
through ?Is from the credit line. Farmers would have to pay up to '2,250 a
year for approximately 15 farm visitas this amount would be financed to
farmers from the global line of credit. To promote the development of
PTAUs, the project would contribute 302 of each farmer's first year cost
through grants to farmers (Annex 1, Table 2). The break-even point for
PTAU operation is estimated at 41 farmers.
B. Group Extension Service
7.      The good results obtained in the Occidente Region (Sant- Rosa de
Copan) in providing extension services through farmer groups would be
enlarged and extended to all UPCA Regions.
8.      Exi..nsion services to farmer groups would be provided through
medium level technicians from MRN, INFOP and UPCA, specially trained for
this purpose by INFOP. UPCA would review the current contract with NRN to
roduce the number of technicians involved in this extension program to no
more than 20 and enter into a contractual agreement with INFOP to extend
I.       the current program to cover the whole country.
9.      The strategy of extension service to farmer groups would be based
on the development of simple technological packages specially adapted to
the characteristics of the farmer group. Thereafter, the program would
develop more sophisticated techniques and include basic accounting and
record keeping. Each technician would work with four to eight farmer
groups, plus about eight individual farmers. Each farmer group would have
a lead farmer and seven satellite farmers, although this could vary from
five to nine. Each farmer group would also have eight 'eventual farmers',
so that each technician would cover from 70 to 130 farmers.
10.     Normally the farmer and a relative would participate in the
program. Training would be based on demonstration plots established as far
as possible on tho lands of leading farmers; training would include field
days, short courses and other special activities. Each visit to a farmer
group wuld be a day-long training session, and the number of visits per
month would vary according to the group's complexity and size but would be
at least one. The group training program would be assisted by UPCA, MRN
and INFOP technicians specializing In crops, animal husbandry, and in
reproduction diagnosis. A mass media program (radio and TV) would
complement farmer training, broadcast at a time when farmers are at home.
UPCA would hire, no later than September 1, 1988, the services of an expert
for about two months (about four visits over the two year period) to assist
in the implementation of the mass media program.
11.     The key factor in the proposed training program is the integration
and commincation among the lead farmer, the farmer group and 'the
technician'. The trainer should be a medium-level, young person,
specifically trained to counicate with farmers, to teach them and  to
receive feedback. INFOP technicians have proven their skills in this



- 36 -                      Page 3 of 6
approachl UPCA would enter into an agreement with IWFOP to use its am
personnel for the project, and/or for INFOP to trai new *taff for the
project.
12.      It Is estimated that about 20 technician could train about 2,500
farmers during a three-year training program.   PC and NRM technicians
would be trained by INFOP staff before starting to promoto farmor groups
and beginning the specific training program. A dolly radio progrm eanch
morning and night, would encourage mass training to back up each
technician. Technician work routes and areas would be studied and proposed
for each Region by each UPCA's regional staff no later than Noveibtr 1,
1988.
13.     UPCA's operating costs would be In the range of L340,000 for tbe'
first year and about L270,000 for the following years (Annex 1, Table 3).
Wages from UPCA, MRN and INFOP staff would continue to be paid by the
participating institutions and hence are not Included as project costs. 
Vehicle purchases are also not included since UPCA recently *cquired 20
pick-up trucks which would be used for this purpose.
14.     UPCA would program two to three seminars to make UPCA personnel
aware of the philosophical and methodological basis of group trainng and
private technical assistance. Such seminars would provide overall back-up
and an Incentive for the UPCA team that would be working on these progr ams,
enabling them to be familiar with these new techniques of estension.



- 37 -                                      Annex 1
Table I
Page 4 of §
IV AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PRIVATE TECINICAL ASSISTACE UNITS
FLOW OF FUNS
Unit        Yoa I  Yer 2  Year S  Yr 4  Year C  Year   Year 
Cost        -
NBU OF FARMS                      SO      so       75       75       75       75      75
INFLOWS                                     163,40  183,651  168,755  168,751 168,755 206,75  18,759
Services to Form                            112,506  112,551 108,755  160,755  168,755  160,760 168,75
No. of Visits/Year                16          75U     765   1,125   1.125   1,125   1,125   1,125
Cost per Visit                   15U
Cost per Form                  2,25U
Long-Term Loan                      961     46,821   13,765        a        a       0  S6,9    10.68
Short-Term Loan                     25S    '2,5s8
Unit Contribution                   lOX       5,69   2,085         0        a       *   4,809   2,811
OUTFLOWS                                    182,90  102,650 110,0 118,1    11 1,01   1U,C0   138,0m0
Total Operating Expens                      82,0o  82,000 111,10 018 1 118,0U  118,010  11,100
Salriets                                   59,100  59,106  66,760  86,761  3,76e  96,700  88,700
Other Operating Expense                    22,9e0  22,901  31,J1S   81,556  81,SOO  81,3J  313,J0
Investment                                  56,900  20,056         a       9        0  41,011   2,011
Vehicles                      20,000       40,000  20,060                             40,m0   20,060
Typewriter                     8,68         8,68
Canon Desk-Top Calculators       45U         90       45U
Deko                             406         680      468
Other Equipment                4,200       4,201
Legal Expense                  2,0eo        2,6eo
Balance Before Debt Service                  80,560   80,560  5,755   50,750  55,750  50,765  55,755
De"b Service
Long-Term Loan:
Balance at Year End                      456819  45,810  84,87  22,904  11,451           a
Interest                      O.16        7,au0  7,a80   6,418   4,561   2,748         016
Amortization                                              11,458  11,458  11,458  11,451
Short-Term Loan
Interest Paymnt               0.16        8,289
Amortization                             20,540
Total Debt Service                           IP 62i   7,886  17,666  16,034  14,261  12,867
NET CASH FLOW                                10,091  28,179  82,064  84,715  18,540  88,*83 5*1,76
i~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------------



-38-                                 Annex I
Table 2
Page 5 of 6
si   v.. IS     
_,             I
I-~~~~;2
1.4~~~~~~~#
g: I tfiii "          e
^I *r . ze      
ml  0                
c~ i~    i                    '
a  **..e            X
#4   #.4001         3 ~
b.4i.]^                    S 



- 39 -
Annex 1
Table 3
Page 6 of 6
HONDURAS
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Annual Costs for Group and Mass Media
Extension Services to Farmers
(Lempiras)
Each
First Year         following year
GROUP TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Subsistence                               45,900             45,900
Fuel and Oil                              36,000             36,000
Vehicles O&M                              18,000             18,000
Seminars                                  64,800             64,800
Equipment                                 33,000                  0
Teaching Material and Stationery           3,600              3,600
Contingencies (3Z)                         6,039              5,049
Sub-Total                             207,339            173,349
MASS MEDIA                               125,260             95,260
Contingencies (3Z)                         3,758              2,858
Sub-Total                            129,018             98,118
TOTAL                                336,357            271,467



- 40 -                          Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
HONDURAS
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TRAIhNING COMPONENT
Introduction
1.       The training program under the project would be directed mainly to
UPCA staff and agricultural loan officers of participating financial
intermediaries including BANADESA. The program would be designed to
support fully the proposed decentralization of project activities and the
emphasis on private technical assistance and group extension service. To
that end, the proposed training program would focus on four main fields:
(a) management and administration skills, mainly for UPCA staff;
(b) banking, financial and accounting matters for UPCA and FI staff; L
(c) computer skill techniques for UPCA staff; and (d) general agricultural
and extension techniques, especially mass training procedures (Annex 2,
Table 1). The training would be organized by UPCA with assistance of
consultants and would be closely coordinated with other units within BCH
responsible for training staff of FI's.
A. Management and Administration Skills
2.       Project activities would be further decentralized, so that it is
necessary to enhance UPCA's management and administration skills. Training
in this field would be focused mainly on management by objectives and
planning techniques, but would also include subjects related to personnel
management such as recruitment, perform&'ace evaluation techniques, and
promotion and incentive programs. This type of training would be directed
mainly to UPCA's high level staff--including (but not limited to) the
project director, the project sub-director, the regional directors and the
regional sub-directors. Required courses would be on site and designed
specifically for UPCA's request, taking into account UPCA's Operational
Manual and Credit Regulations Manual. The Instituto Centroamericano de
Administracion Publica (ICAP), the Instituto Centroamericano de
Administracion de Empresas (INCAE) among others could provide such type of
training, as both of these institutes are specialized in these fields.
B. Banking. Financina and Accounting Skills
3.       UPCA officers and agricultural loan officer of participating FIs
carry out activities that require basic knowledge of banking, financial and
accounting matters. In the past, UPCA has build up its skills, and that of
participating FIs largely on agricultural technical subjects, on
agricultural extension, and on subproject preparation and evaluation. With
the proposed decentralization of subproject processing, it would be
necessary for UPCA to strengthen its banking and financial knowledge to
supervise better the activities to be performed by participating FIs so as
to ensure adequate allocation and control of project funds. To that end,
UPCA would contract adequate training for its personnel and for technicians
from participating FIs. This training would consist in a series of in-



-41 -                          Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
country courses of about one week each, with a maximum of 25 participants
in each course. The proposed training does not have as an objective that
the trainees become experts in these subjects, but rather that they have
full understanding and are at ease with these subjects. This training
would be addressed to higher and medium-level UPCA staff and relevant staff
of the participating FIs. It would include basic principles of:
(a) general accounting; (b) financial analysis; and (c) appraisal of credit
applications and portfolio management. Given the education and
professional background of the prospective trainees, the proposed training
should be based primarily on case studies. Training for UPCA staff should
emphasize the first two topics, while that for the FIs should emphasize the
third. In addition, UPCA would continue to provide local subproject
appraisal courses to new staff appointed to vacant positions and refresher
eourses for previously trained staff. Training on these topics would be
contracted out to specialized institutions, either domestic or foreign.
Terms of reference for the institution to provide such training would be
agreed at negotiations.
C. Computer Skill Techniques
4.       UPCA has recently acquired a microcomputer for its headquarters
and personal computers for headquarters and the regional offices to
systematize UPCA's management and accounting information system. To
support this change, the project would provide training in computer
techniques (basic and intermediate courses) and computer systems analysis.
Computer techniques courses would be provided in Tegucigalpa for
headquarters' staff and for a limited number of regional staff, while
remaining staff would be trained at the regional level. System analysis
would be provided locally to the UPCA staff who would be responsible for
preparing computing programs and/or be the computer coordinators in each
region.
D. General Agriculture and Extension Techniques
5.       UPCA staff would receive training locally in specific agricultural
subjects to be identified during project implementation. These would focus
mainly on topics such as soil and water conservation, new production
techniques for traditional crops or production techniques for non-
traditional crops, as well as on marketing and/or agroindustry. In
addition, and to undertake the now types of extension services to be
promoted under the project, UPCA would prepare two to three seminars to
make UPCA staff aware of the philosophical and methodological basis for
group training and private technical assistance.
6.       Study tours would also be financed under the project, mainly for
the purpose of allowing UPCA staff to observe similar extension programs in
other Latin American countries and to upgrade skills in non-traditional
tropical crops and agroindustries.
E. Summary
7.       Each regional director would propose the specific staff to be
trained at each course. The deputy director would then prepare the
detailed training program to be implemented each year. This program would



- 42 -                         Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
be Included In the annual budget to be submitted to the Bank by October 30
of that year. The overall training program and the terms of reference for
the Individual courses vould be reviewed and agreed at negotiations. Total
training cost ts estiated at L267,000 (Annex 2, Table 1).



-----------
R      .h Lee)      a:
TFAIMN CON           AI 9OW^
YEARt  1               YEAR   2                TO0TA L
tinke of              NOer l. of             lb. of                 lD. of                FIE
partieipats of 0t.   Omree         re.t      Cawre.      CO"        Coura-e    Cos           m.t is     T
(A) IWUIT N AC0WfN MUWJ.
1a)n    of                                           a0                 1     u,oao            I a    D 00            2       40s,m          7     O 10  ao
Fernml Ia             b/                                      8         I     3S000            I    20,000            2       40.000         7W     JO.000
_Acceuntlnga"FdlnancialAnalysis   c;/                20       a        2      a,000            2    30,000            4       10,000         7W     4e,000
baking _ d Pteolio 9anageswb   4/                             a        2      30,00            2     00.00            4   4 0,000            7      4e,000
(  ro4Ution t    e          esl                                         1     10,000           I    108000            2       0,000            s 
intuer   Itudiate                              is       a               10,000           I    10.00              2       1000w          0a
(0)     N.6 A0311AMM    S 5O(36   T_
I.tension Natiaodelop anvd Teach  t                  25                 1      2,000           1     2,000            2        4,000          on         0
mminagemst, A Couratn of solA  aerh                  2                  1     10,000           I    10,000            2       200010                 0 O00
Study "a       aie TYear   ei                         4 I-,S            2      1i.m            2     1.0=0            4        S.00         100l     a 000
T O  T A                                              1i_                   In.=                      57.000         so    173,000
lubjecto to be savored:
n     lcs of organimatien wnd amnege.nt, plannning by ebJ..i. budtng, management i-formtion ay_ot, orann timal deign, plictni    decia-esking. 
in Solen of @rpnition pollieso and procedures, nweiew of            rledd ar                                                                c
c, Oerel accounting practs, accounting  ovatma financial stetesanb anlyala. mm of financial 'ati.., cmbastml,.ii ote..
d  Risk managemant In tebking sWaeWs, pOrillo  ol ti.  creit aalyals. intorne conto an prdeeiuatl"of financil Performance; crouttbion of
inherent receive  an paid. _maelnl mrgiz.  Intsradiatlon oItes., profit, ratrg. et.
;/ Stoics of ee3puter opatesa and applicationc.
f/  n-dpthstuy a ceputr sate.,structures and ap1liction. mAVnaasat infermotion opetess, dsii, organiaatimn. uaet of preadhaeeto, atu.
./be  trei nia tecknqa. auioim  spte  evlato  t-lns  - ae of coeraie and/er prdua g re_p
1/ Lan an       csneeriation* |astho   emr iie el"  andb *4enaeanof i*rgaoyte. anly an  ntrpretalo  atelean data ietc
end proceeoing techniques for agricaltural p ,r ost-bervast dmnlgaum.t, p  p. etc.
lb
00
O lb
c _



Annex 3
-44 -                            P ge 1 of 3
BONDIRAS
FOTURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SPECIAL STUDIES
TEMS OF REFERENCE
A.  Study on Chattel MortRaRes
1.       The chattel mortgages study to be carried out by UPCA under terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank and to be completed by May 31, 1989
would cover the following points:
-   Costs to borrowers of using chattel mortgages, including
recommendations to reduce these costs;
-   costs to lenders of using chattel mortgages, including
recommendations to reduce these costs;
-   risks for borrowers and lenders of using chattel mortgages,
especially the legal, regulatory and procedural problems that
cause uncertainty with respect to the effective execution of
the terms and conditions of chattel mortgages;
-   the risk arising from death, theft or illness of cattle and
the potential of alleviating such risk via cattle insurance;
-   recommendations for improvements in the regulatory and
procedural framework that could make chattel mortgages more
effective and could be unde-taken without legislative changes
and a timetable for implementation;
-   a draft of legislative changes and/or new legislation,
drawing on the experiences of neighboring countries and the
current Honduran situation, that would make chattel mortgages
more effective and a timetable for implementation.
2.       This study would be carried out with the assistance of external
consultants, and the budget is estimated at US$50,000. These external
consultants should include legal, economic and banking experts in the field
of chattel mortgages.
B. StudY on Land Titles and Tenure Security
3.       The study of land titles and land tenure security would begin with
a thorough review of related studies and programs already carried out by
USAID and INA and would include evaluations and recommendations with
respect to these studies and programs. The study to be carried out under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank would be completed by the May
31, 1989 and would cover the following points:
-   Specify the different types of land titles in use in Honduras,
especially involving agricultural lands, and the costs of
acquiring different types of land titles;



Annex 3
- 45 -                           Page 2 of 3
- analyze the differences in land prices that arise from
different types of land titles;
-   indicate the usefulness of each type of land title for the
purposes of constituting and executing mortgages, Including
the costs involved for lenders and borrowers, and the ability
of lenders to actually repossess land in the case of default;
- make recommendations as to how different classes of title
andlor the system of land titles as a whole could be made more
effective and less costly, especially for use as mortgages,
including procedural, regulatory and legal changes;
-   identify the main sources of insecurity in land holding and
land use, and especially the extent to which security differs
according to type of land title;
- make recommendations for increasing the security of land
holding and land use, differentiating between regulatory and
institutional changes and those that would require legislative
changes.
4.       This study would be carried out with the assistance of external
consultants, and the budget is estimated at US$40,000. These external
consultants should include experts in law and economics, including the
economies of land tenure and property right and contracts.
C.  Study on Credit for Low-Income Producers throuah Informal Chanels
5.       The study of informal financial channels that could provide low-
income preducers with increased access to credit would be carried out by
UPCA under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank to be completed by May
31, 1989, and would cover the following points:
-   Identify the sources of informal credit currently being used
by agricultural producers, especially low-income producers;
-   specify the usual terms and conditions of such credit,
including borrower transactions costs as well as interest and
other explicit changes;
-   determine if terms and conditions of this informal credit
reflect significant monopoly elements and, if so, identify
precisely these monopoly elements and make recommendations as
to how they might be reduced;
-   identify innovative, cost-reducing elements of informal credit
that could be adopted by formal financial institutions;
-   evaluate the experience of 'semi-formal' institutions such as
credit unions and micro-enterprise lending agencies in
reaching low-income producers;
t



- 46 -                           Page 3 4f 3
- evaluate the extent to which improved credit access by
informal lenders could improv, the access to credit by low-
income producers, either through increased competition or an
enlarged flow of funds.
6.       This study would be carried out with the assistance of extornal
consultants, and the budget is estimated at US$50,000. These external
consultants should Include oxperts in economics, with a special focus on
rural finance and informal finance, and could also include experts on
economic anthropology, credit unions and micro-enterprise lending.
D. Study on Transaction Costs
7.       The study of transaction costs incurred by lenders and borrowers
to undertake agricultural credit activities would be carried out by UPC&
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and would be divided into
two parts: (a) lender transaction costs, to be completed by Nay, 1989, and
(b) borrower transaction costs, to be completed by October, 1989.
8.       The study of lender transaction costs would be a series of case
studies of the operations of different lenders in analysing, approving,
disbursing and collecting different types of loans (including both short-
term and long-term agricultural loans and loans funded by the Bank, other
international agencies and the Government of Honduras) In order to
determine in detail all the different costs involved. Financial
institutions of varying types and sizes would be analyzed as wAll as
different branches of the same istitution, again taking size into account.
The resulting costs would be compared to the findings if previous studies
(e.g. those of UPCA and the Ohio State University) and the Implications for
lending margins would be analyzed. Recommendations would also be made as
to possible procedure and regulatory changes that might be effective In
reducing there transaction costs. This part of the study would be carried
out with the assistance of external consultants having exportise in
banking, accounting and financial economics. The budget for this part of
the study is estimated at US$40,000.
9.       The study of borrower transactions costs would be based on
Interviews with a carefully selected sample of borrowers including
producers with different sizes of land-holding, different types of land
tenure, different products, different access to infrastructure such as
roads, and different levels of income and wealth (including the relative
importance of agricultural and non agricultural activities). Borrowers
would be interviewed about all costs involved in securing, receiving and
repaying loans from different types of lenders, both formal and informal,
and including the opportunity cost of time as well as direct expenditures.
The questionnaire should be designed and pretested and the sample selected
to ensure that the results of the survey can produce findings within
specified statistical confidence intervals. Based on this analysis,
recommendations should be made for changes in procedures and regulations
that could reduce borrower transaction costs. This part of the study would
be carried out with the assistance of external consultants having expertise
in survey methods, including questionnaire design and sample selection, and
in the economics of rural financial markets. The budget for this part is
estimated at US$50,000.



FOURTH AUI LluEAL atEIT FROJECT
SPECIAL s$  S
(I ...1.... of L_ti re)
FOREIGI     FUEZf
WATICN              YER I         EAR 2      TAL    EXOG. S          CST
SPECIAL STUDIES
Finamne of Marketing Ageont                   5 ...th.             iNS                     lU            noS       iN
Chti. Mortgae                                 S motbenth.          INS                     IN.0           s         9.S
Land Title                                    4 oothe                W.S0 U.M
Transction Costs                              2 mnth                 M.S        10.0        M.*           SU.    15s.5
Cost Accounting                               2 month               45.5                    45.5           0        32.0
Other Studies                a                  onths                            U.0        U.0          an         U.S
TOTAL                                    40.0        1.9        E6W.0          u        456.5.
00
0 C-1w



- 48 -                           Anox 4
Page 1 of 3
HONDURAS
CRITUIA FOR FIV'ANCIAL INTERNEDIARIES'
PARTICIPATION IN THE PROJECT
A. Commercial Banks
1.       The criteria for commercial bank participation in the project
would be based primarily on indicators related to financial soundness. To
that end, solvency would be used as the basic criteria, not because the
Bank's credit risk would depend significantly on the soundness of FIs, but
rather because solvency should be a very good indicator of the efficiency
of a commercial bank with respect to its role as a financial intermediary.
Commercial bank solvency problems are usually associated with non-
performing loans and hence with credit not allocated properly from a social
and economic point of view resulting from poor loan analysis, poor
collection procedures, and weak financial management. Furthermore,
operations and procedures in insolvent banks tend to be inconsistent with
adequate banking regulations, in particular with respect to undertaking
excessive financial risks Including loans to related parties.
2.       Solvency would be measured through economic leverage coefficients,
that is, the ratio of debt to estimated economic net worth. The latter is
defined as the accounting net worth minus net estimated losses due to non
performing assets. A commercial bank would qualify to participate in the
project if its economic leverage is not greater than 35 and if Its recovery
rate for its UPCA's portfolio (including subloans under previous Bank
financed projects) is greater than 652. UPCA's recovery rate would be
measured comparing total amounts due during each six months period with
actual cash recoveries during that period. Continued participation as a FI
during the second year of the iroject would depend on the FI maintaining an
estimated economic leverage n.  greater than 30, absence of additional
problems that might Imply higk risk of insolvency as determined by the
Superintendency of Banks, and E recovery rate for its UPCA's portfolio
greater than 702. To continue participating in the project during the
third year the Fl should have an estimated economic leverage not greater
than 25 and a recovery rate for its UPCA's portfolio of at least 751. For
any successive year the estimated economic leverage coefficient should be
one point below the coefficient for the preceding year and the recovery
rate two percentage points above the recovery of the preceding year.
3.       In addition to financial soundness, a commercial bank would
qualify to continue participating in the project only if UPCA determines
that the bank has an adequate agricultural unit to implement the project.
UPCA's opinion on the adequacy of such agricultural units would be based
on: (a) FIs' preparation and submission of satisfactory feasibility
studies which would be checked through ex-ante reviews of all large sub-
loans; and (b) FIs' compliance with appropriate terms and conditions for at
least 901 of subloans based on its ex-post inspection of a sample of
subloans financed by UPCA.



_ 49 -                         Aanex 4
Page 2 of 3
4.       UPCA would temporarily suspend the rediscounting of subloans for
any FI that fails to achieve with the loan recovery ratio for project funds
and leverage coefficient, indicated in paras. 2 and 3 above, or fails to
prepare and supervise subloans properly, as would be indicated if 102 did
not comply with agreed terms and conditions of subloans (see para. 3).
5.       Information with respect to all these aspects would be part of
UPCA's management information system to be prepared and submitted to the
Bank two months after the end of each six-months period.
B. BANADESA
6.       BANADESA's special role as a public sector development bank
require special criteria for its participation in the project relating to
loan recovery and to deposit mobilization. Because there are substantial
differences among BANADESA's branch offices with respect to loan recovery,
and operating costs, individual BANADESA branch offices would be allowed to
participate in the project based on the fulfillment of specific criteria at
each of these branch offices with respect to loan recovery and ability to
handle its portfolio of project subloans in a satisfactory manner.
7.       Adequate loan recovery is crucial to demonstrate that a financial
institution is allocating its funds to creditworthy borrowers who are
undertaking productive actilvities. Consequently, a BANADESA office would
be allowed to participate in the project initially if it has at least 552
of its total loan portfolio (excluding TIDEICOMISOS) fully on time, where
fully on time is defin d to exclude amy,unts refinanced and amounts that
have not yet fallen due on loans with overdue payments. This level of loan
recovery is not adequate in the long run for successful operation, so that
it would be raised to 602 in the second year of the project and by 22
points over the preceding year each successive year thereafter. Such
initial recovery level would, however, allow some BARADESA offices to
participate initially while providing an incentive for continuing
improvement in loan recovery at a wider range of BANADESA offices. In
addition to the above criteria, a BANADESA branch office would have to have
a recovery rate for its UPCA portfolio (including previous Bank financed
projects) greater than 652 to be allowed to participate in the project;
recovery should be greater than 702 during the second year of the project,
75% during the third year and two percentage points above the recovery of
the preceding year every year thereafter. This recovery would be measured
as total amounts collected in cash (excluding refinancing) relative to
amounts falling due during the year, with appropriate adjustments for
write-offs.
8.       Because adequate deposit mobilization is also essential for a
viable financial institution, BANADESA would also be required to maintain a
reasonable relationship between deposits mobilized and funds drawn from the
Central Bank under this and previous Bank-financed projects. In
particular, BANADESA would be allowed to have an amount of funds
outstanding from this and previous Bank-financed projects equal to no more
than 1 1 times the amount of deposits outstanding from the general public
(excluding any compulsory or compensating deposits and/or any deposits from
public sector institutions). This ratio would be reviewed at the end of the



- 50 -                             Annex 4
Pago 3 of 3
first year of the project with a view toward requiring a stronger balance
between deposits and funds drawn from the project and to explore the
possibility of having a criteria on a branch by branch basis.
9.       In addition to the above-mentioned financial criteria, each
participating BANADESA office would have its performance reviewed by UPCA
to insure satisfactory performance of its agricultural unit to Implement
the project. This performance evaluation would be based on two specific
criteriat (a) preparation of satisfactory feasibility studies for large
loans which would be reviewed ex ante by UPCA; and (b) borrower compliance
with terms and conditions of loans which would be reviewed ex post by UPCA
through an adequate sample of all loans financed through a particular
BANADESA office. Any BANADESA office not In compliance with agreed terms
and conditions for at least 902 of its subloans would be suspended from
participation in the project until the problem has been corrected.
C. FACACH and Affiliated Credit Unions
10.      Individual credit unions affiliated with FACACH would be permitted
to participate in the proposed project only after they have been subject to
an external audit that demonstrates solvency. In addition, participating
credit unions must have at least 652 of their loan portfolios fully on
t1me, where fully on time is defined to exclude amounts refinanced and
amounts that have not-yet fallen due on loans with overdue payments. Such
credit unions must also: (a) be located outside of Tegucigalpa and San
Pedro Sula; (b) have membership requirements that make them open to the
community at large; and (c) have at least 100 active members within which
at least 502 must be primarily dedicated to activities related to
agriculture. The latter must have some representation on the credit
committee, vigilance committee or board of directors of the credit union.
FACACH must also certify the credit union by guaranteeing repayment of its
obligations contracted with Bank funds. FACACH itself must also be subject
to an external audit that demonstrates solvency.
11.      Participating credit union would be allowed to have an amount of
funds outstanding from the project equal to the amount of voluntary
deposits or capital contributions from members, whichever is less.
Continuing participation in the project for each credit union would be
conditioned on continuing fulfillment of the criteria In the preceding
paragraph. In addition, satisfactory performance would be required in at
least two respects. First, recovery for its portfolio of project subloans
must be greater than 702; this recovery rate is defined as total amounts
collected in cash (excluding refinancing) relative to amounts falling due
during the year. Second, each participating credit union would have a
sample of its project subloans reviewed by UPCA to determine if: (a) the
recipients are primarily engaged in activities related to agriculture; and
(b) all term and conditions of subloans are the same as for comparable
loans made by the credit union using its funds. Any credit union not in
compliance on at least 902 of its project subloans would be suspended until
the problem has been corrected. The recovery rate for the third year and
thereafter should be at least 22 points above the recovery of each
preceding year's recovery rate.



- 51 -                      Annex 5
-51-                          Page 1 of 8
HONDURAS
FOURTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ILLUSTRATIVE INVEST'ENT PLANS
Introduction
1.       Under the project, medium- and long-term credit would finance on-
farm development and investments in initial agroindustrial stages. Likely
investments wouid include planting of fruit orchards and permanent tree
crops, herd restocking, pasture improvement, soil conservation works,
private farm machinery pools, collection centers, and storage and packing
facilities. Many of these investments would be associated with
technological improvement packages to be promoted through the private and
group technical assistance programs to be supported under the project and
through the Secretariat of Natural Resources' extension and research
programs. Technological improvement packages would aim at:
(a) introducing soil conservation measures and the use of fertilizer and
agro-chemical in farming practices; (b) intensifying livestock production
by increasing on-farm forage availability and improving herd management and
animal health practices; and (c) increasing the output and marketing of
export qualfty products such as fresh fruit, vegetables, and tropical crops
through the introduction of new crops and Improved varieties and production
practices.
2.       To analyze the technical and financial viability of expected
investments and proposed technological improvements, investment plans have
been modeled based on experiences of relevant investments or activities
previously financed by UPCA. Five model' were selected as illustrative of
the likely investments under the project. Costs and benefits are based on
actual market/farmgate prices. Domestic commodity prices are, in general,
closely linked to international market prices, and while Bank price
forecasts anticipate some recovery from the current low levels for the
relevant commodities, the modelling assumes no real price increases. Under
these assumptions, financial rates of return (FRR) range from 25 to 35Z.
Assuming a 14.52 real cost of capital (current 1?1 interest rate minus 2.5%
estimated inflation) the proposed investments are financially viable.
Sensitivity tests indicate that proposed investments are not too sensitive
to adverse movements in commodity prices.
3.       Brief descriptions of the five models and results of financial
analysis are presented below. More detailed data on the models can be
found in the Project File.
Financial liodels
(a) Dual Purpose Livestock Farm. Such farm could be in any region of
the country with an extension of 65 ha: about 46 ha of pasture, 13
ha of woods and brush land and 6 ha of crops and constructions.
The farm stocking capacity of about 49 animal units is currently
usad by a 60-head herd. A typical management practice is to move
the entire herd from one pasture field to another as needed, and



-52 -                          Annex 5
Page 2 of 8
to milk the lactating cove whenever possible. There is no
parasite control or disease prevention, neither supplementary feed
nor mineral salts are provided. The herd consists of crossbreed
animals from different breeds, normally in poor conditions even
during the rainy season when there is enough pasture. Production
coefficients are low and therefore gross income from cattle is
also low. Main investments to be financed under the prcject
during a two-year period would consist of: pasture improvement
(242); fencing to facilitate pasture management (151); basic
infrastructure for cattle management, including mineral boxes
(82); water supply (11%); and the necessary equipment for
supplementary forage feeding during the critical season (5X). The
proposed investment would also include the acquisition of improved
breeding stock of about one bull and 10 cows for grading up the
herd and to utilize the proposed enlarged stocking capacity of
about 77 animals units (37%), an increase of about 572 over the
Initial stocking capacity. Total investment would be about
L30,000.   With the proposed investments and the improved
management practices to be promoted through group and/or private
technical assistance, it is expected that production coefficients
would improve gradually; farm revenues would increase from about
L3,800 annually without the project to about L12,900 at full
development, about eight years after the initial investments. The
FRR is estimated at 27% before financing (Annex 5, Table 1).
(b) Banana Farm. This model represents a typical investment in the
Caribbean coastal plains where soils and infrastructure required
for banana plantations could be found. There are extensive areas
of abandoned banana plantations currently covered with pasture or
brushlands which still conserve some of the original
infrastructure (drainage). These are also new lands close to the
main drainage and roads which could be planted with this crop by
the agrarian reform cooperatives or private farmers. The proposed
100 ha farm model has the appropriate extension for airplane pest
control that would generate a level of production which could feed
properly a boxing plant. The investment costs estimated at about
L2.0 million, would include all the necessary infrastructure such
as roads, bridges, drainage, irrigation systems and cable via (52%
of total investment); equipment such as tractor, trailers and
trucks (5.41); constructions, facilities such as warehouses,
offices, packing facilities, workshops (20.5%); land preparation
and planting (92); funds for first year plantations maintenance
(92); and contingencies (52). The plantation is expected to
produce about 2,700 boxes of banana/ha annually after the second
year which would render a gross income of about Ll.4 million. The
FRR is estimated at 292 before financing (Annex 5, Table 2).
(c) Tree Crops. Cacao has been used to model tree crop investments to
be supported under the project because cacao plantations have been
replacing marginal coffee plantations, pasturelands and lands with
secondary bush growth in the North Atlantic Region. The model
represents a new 10 ha plantation where plantain is used as
temporary shade for the cocoa plants until the permanent shade,
the legume trees, grows. Investments to be financed include all
costs incurred during the first four years, until the cocoa trees



Annex 5
- 53 -                        Page 3 of 8
yield the first commercial crop. Total investment is estimated at
about L54,500 which includes machinery and equipment (8Z);
infrastructure or land preparation (52); planting (412); four
years of crop maintenance (412); and contingencies (52). Costs
and yields were calculated from previously financed cocoa farm
projects, but a somewhat lower yield was used. Yield is expected
to reach about 800 kglha of dry cocoa beans at full development
six years after planting. At full development, the farm would
produce a gross income of about L27,000 resulting in a FRR of
about 262 before financing (Annex 5, Table 3).
(iv) Fruit Trees: Citrus development in Honduras began with oranges,
to be exported to neighboring countries, and lemons and grape
fruits, to be exported to the USA and Europe. Some years ago the
Citrus Development Corporation eolarged its concentrate juice
plant capacity to process up to 850,000 metric tons of fruit per
year. This measure has stimulated growth of new plantations,
especially of oranges. The model represents a 35 ha plantation
based on technical coefficients from 32 orange producing farms
(with a total area of 1,500 ha) previously financed by UPCh.
Overall Investment is estimated at L215,000 to be made in three
years and includes: machinery and equipment (212); Infrastructure,
land preparation roads and drainage (112); construction and
buildings (12); planting (222)g maintenance during a three year
period until a commercial crop is harvested (402); and
miscellaneous (2). The farm would reach a steady production of
some 200 million fruits after its eighth year which would render a
gross revenue of about L224,0w'O per year; t-he FRR is estimated at
about 302 before financing (Annex 5, Table 4).
(v) Land Improvement and soil Conservation in Support to Smell-scale
Producers: This model represents a typical small-scale producer
of about 5.5 ha located in a hill slope In any region of the
country. Farm activities consist of cultivation of basic grains
(mainly maize and beans) combined with livestock as a secondary
activity. The typical management practice consist of slash-and-
burn techniques for grain cultivation with no use of
agrochemicals, and animal grazing in natural pasture. The main
investments to be financed under the project over a two-year
period would Include:  simple soil cultivation; land leveling,
terracing and planting of fruit trees in one hectare currently
covered with natural pasture; establishment of one hectare of
firewood; and planting the rest of the farm with improved pasture.
Investments would also Include the purchase of two small metal
silos for storing maize and beans and of two cows as well as fence
and water supply improvements. With the proposed investments, to
be complemented with an appropriate technological package to be
provided under the group technical assistance, the producer's
Income would rise from L1,070 at present to L7,600 at the time of
full development, at the eighth year of the project. The FRR is
estimate at 312 before financing (Annex 5, Table 5).



IV Agriealtarml Credit Pr,.;j
Pol%p*Liva,  d for OWNli end Largo   is Fe Prduer
PlnenIW1 Aglipl_
Vi36mt With
Project  "  soec__                       _ _  _ ___ _ _ _ _                             _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _   _ _  _ _ _
1   _moO   Y.r A  Y_.r 2 r_, S  Y_r 4 YerS  V.eS Yr_                e vr   aer   VeS  yearlv 10 year It  Y ear U2   1r S  Y_sr 14 V_r U  veYrr Yiser U  V_r a  Veer l   Y_r 
row  Value ,G                        *9.1"   U.m    *.,m  1.W   u1,966  sI.M   0.s           0 u,m0   u,m   11.u, u1 .u                 WA,R.  11. us.1   u,SM    as..    S,a.. u,           11,0    as*m
Hard Volvo la veer 20                                                                                                                                                                                 1*4"
OWFM.                         SIM    111.711C  12.63   O.M3  12,060  13,00   10.060  10.31111 13,3M   13.210   12.m   2i.11rn1  12.31    13.300   14,30   12,2110  13.3M    14IM0   13,36    13,30    14,23
00oemtin  ceee                SIM      gino    ?.30    9.m111 13.M1   VI.0M   10,0.  10.30   22,M0  13.210  13,11111  14,30    13.M0   13.30    4,IM0 12,20   12.M3   14,21    13.=0   12.33    14,23
mWswe PuumcSI
mgt Totel Haoi it             S.799    2.881    (OMS  8.1801)  9,96   181.11"  18.110  13.075  11,61   186130  Is,"62   14.m3   is.63    141.6133   14.001  11,6.041  181.4142  14.61    111.46321  18.61    84,1,1
zocrmemntei loe, it                  t38:U0   (4;?    1.3111  6.10  10.131  22113.8l 14.11761 12.66   13,61661  13,66   10.66    123.636   . 126 6 i,r    3. 12      ,666m  10,03    13,60   1-3.0    810,01?
with Projec
Di -                            M   19,0     4.466
Had of Year btlac.                    19,636   31.0.000  000m  104630  14.400  I.M0   8,20        0
118WW0 Priacipel                               3,0 *           4.3    6.000   &.Am   6,600      20
intsiv"          is            8.40      S."   8.472   2.70    I.We    070    M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8.73 370    163  7
bf gWA(8, Nm.403) (1 .f14)  2 .1   8,107 r00 o?  12,                                                             6      0i.     1,6    2,        1,3    1          1,3 1n6 u                 12,6    107
_ _ _. UT  *Ul
b_er. P|_Kina                    2
After Pimnlm                     M
a: n
Ha 7l 111Wlt                          (4,311)     J    18      1,675  0,200  0         1.2    18,23   11,632   11.612  14.633   181,62   18,632   14,86    186,1 u1669I      14.6412  1.69    If.6     84s1u
Produce Cmtrflkeio.                    4,87  1. 14
C.d. Flow                                666    1.162   1,a10   I,875m  6,0     ,ti  1s I        SI6  16,632   182 IM6 62t1iU    14.62   16863   1u.6u    34 1s
duget.sfd C.* Plea                             I' m    $,ess6 80o1  n.311 on9,117 St1,          "41 1111m ".8et    ?$.*W   62.7311, 106,420  130.112  140.60  157.406  174.18   m.Ms  2106,573  220.2014  M3.04
00
us
QD-



HONDURAS
IV Agricultural Ceilt Projec
Ibann iloentatio. (1" hb)
FnoncialM Anlyi
Year 1               Year 2     veer         e4       Y Yea      Yer 6      Year       Year S
areo  Value                       40,722   1,415,104  1,415,214  1,415,104  1,415,104 1,415,184  1,415,104  1,415,164
Openrting Cost                     0,0        770,419    796,419    706,419    766,419   7M6,419    760,419    716,419
Inesment8                       2,66,06
NEPI 1 FDNANCINA               (1,620,226)    M,746    48,74C    628,74C    620,745    2,746    026,745    020,745
FINANCING PLAN
Lao" Ter Loo 7nX
Otobure eent                    1,460,274
End of Year                     1,40,274   1,J06,274  1,100,274    906,274    70,274   4S0,274    160,274             0
Principal                                      41*010   2n,6            ,       2046,m    36,60      s6,66      166,274
Interest  a/                11    157,566     221,664    202,04    170,64    116,004    90,004        50,604     18,802
Sbort Term Loom                   3,4            ,                                                                                     U
InOuret                    10      46,000      48,4 
NUTBENEFIT
AFTERP FPIJNAKCD                 (627,440)    82,941    226,141    256,141    290,141   230,141    270,141    449,109
1NTM&L RATE OF RENTU0
Befor Fincing              291
After Fnalning             415
Nt Beneit after Financing        (027,440)    826,941    226,141    25,141    290,141   210,141    276,141    449,109
Producer Contrlibuton (8on) 0n2,066
C&as Flo                          (24,706)    826,941    220,141    269,141    266,141   230,141    276,141    449,109
AccuulWed Cpah Flow               (24,704)     04,161   651,822    76 ,402   1,676,OO  1,J0,744  1,606,066   2,04J,6OC 
Producer Contribution Needed     02,449                                                                                         0
*/ Intermrt pyoneto duo on quarterly hesi. .e  a
x?% U'



HONDURAS
IV Agrculitral Credit Project
Cao PlantatioI (16 be)
Fl"nclal Ama:ysli
~~~~~     ___-____________________-                                                              
Year       ear 2  Year     Y Y  r 4  YearS    Ver 0    csr 7  Year     Year 9  Yer 1i  Year 11  Yar 12 Y Or 18-2
DWS
aros Volvo                     8,12     8,126   18,85    15,MW   22,C0   V,6W   27,69        n 27,0 2,6     27,6W   27,6W    27,           27,666
OUTFULIW
Operating Coot                 2,9W     8,659    4,6C     4,7W   12,264   11,829   19,629  11,629   12,029   11,829   11,829    I1,820    ,I'm
Inv.tmenet                    20,411    6,199   9,240    7,628
NET DIXEFIT
BEFOfI FINANCINA             (24,1W6)  (8,5K)    (476)   2,617  10,234   15,172  16,872  16,172   14,872    6,U72  16,172    15,172    16,172
FINWCII
Long tem Loes
olaboauamemb              ax5 26,410    7,871    8,816    6,661
End oft Yrn                   20,469  88,646  42,1C6   49,67   46,967   87,"7   28,997   19,917    9,907           0
Rqwyowb Principal                                 il~~~~,666    6,6W    OWe    06w    is.6     0,967
IRterest                 16a  a/        2,965   4,825   6,_        7,204    7,69    6,716   5,865    8,915    2,896   1,696
MET MEFI
AtER FDWINSK                   2,284  8 41   8,621    8,0           (108)    (427)    67        817     457    2,810    18,677    16,172    16,172   v
DffWL RAME OF RIM
deor. Finsaci             20X
CASH filI
Not loeflt after FlnancIng     2,284  S 41   8,621    8,806         (166)    (427)    6"7       o1l      457   2,818  18,677    15,172    15,172
Pr.duci'r Contribution          2,041     819      624      76
Cash Figo                       65226    1,6s    8,946   4,166    (18)   (427)    an7          617      457    2,616  18,677    16,172    16,172
Aceuulated Cash Flow            6,226   6,385   19,881   14,901   14,688   14,456   15,118   11,929   16,8     19,190   82,772    47,944   10,816
1 It ,;  Es Wat Inerest paymetO are mad at t*0 bOginning ot each year.
0
Co w 



HONDURkS
IV Agricultural Credit Project
Citrus Plantation (35 he)
Financial Analysie
YVr I  Yar 2  YVer a  Y ear4    eer Yarr     Yeer 7  YVeer 8  Yo. 9 YVr If Year   VYr 12 YVae 1a    14-28
Preo" V lue                             9       0  28,660   oa,oe  120,06  164,6W  162,000 224,6e  224,066  224,01  224,0ee 224,00e 224,666   224,6W1
.IUTFLous
t(orating Cost                                       3,56e    51,30   61,435  64,916  69,466   73,736  70,236  70,236  73,236  70,236   76,285    76,25s
anv.tmu nt                        143,266  85,5U   36,141
liFt WEEIT
EIEFOE FIMNNKCDI                 (143,266) (85,668) (11,641)  11,761  64,610  39,014  118,616  156,206  15U,786  1u5,     13,766  163,766  1U,766   168,76
Ilrn"WID PLAN
Iong Term Loan               urn
tllsbur1                          114,604  26,662   26,918
li  of YVer                       114,664 143,238  172,199 17,199  172,290  162,199 132,199  162,199  72,196  42,109   7,19             0
tlepeynt Principal                                                             29,663  29,61   86,oW   36,6W U,      3,6,66         7,109
lnterset  */               lo             12,U8   29,63l  26,289  27,f h2  2,552  25,962  22,72   16,752   13,92    9,162    8,962    1,162
~lort Term Loans                                              60,61  69,61  49,61 11      ,6W 2M,62        19,6                                           U'
Interest                     l6o                              6,6W    6,00    6,466    4,W    8,260   1,6M
IIIET WEEIT
IFET  FINANCING                   (26,61) (29,6)  (3,859) (21,586)  26,14  65,064  62,764  124,814  188,414  189,914 144,614  149,914  152,614   1U,766
IJITEL RATE OF RETIIW
iltore Finaing               861
ftewr Financing              471
CMS FLOW
'bt Beett after Flnancing        (26,"61) (26,6W)  (3,359) (21,686) 2861,4  55,164   62,764  124,814  13,414  189,614 144,614  149,614 162,614   168,766
iroduer Contribution (26)          26,651    7,171   7,226
Cash Flow                              *  (12,63)  3,069  (21,68)  29,984  65,164   62,764  124,114 1U,414  189,614  144,014  149,814  162,614   168U7
Ilemulted Cash Flow                    6  (12,836)  (6,987) (86,665)  (1,141) 5,522  186,296  2 F,6    894,918 U5,827  676,441  29,254  9,6818 2,67,227
Producer Contribution Nd          28,651   20,10W    3,85i9  21,686
a/ _t was assu   thatinterest payments are Nud at th. beginning of eah rMar.
gf31
°IU
":Ow- .
(0,V



IV Agricultural tredit Project
LaW  Improvemnt end Soil Cone.rvabon for Smll-Scal, Producer
Financial Analysls
with
Without  Project
year 9    Ver 1   Vr 2    Yer a    Yer 4    Year 6    YTer a   Year?7   Year    Yer 9   Year1
DEFIAW                                 279       0,363    6,66       7,0IC    10,696    11,412    12,6U    13,654    13,654    13,654    16,1S4
Gross Value                            2,77    90,         6,96      7,056    16,66     11,412    12,Us   13,554    13,55       13,654    13,654
Hard Value at Year 6                                                                                                                       1,836
TFLOSU                                 1,79    11,176      3,7"      7,65      7,146     7,146     7,146     7,148     7,146     7,146     7,146
Operating Cost                         1,79      6,666     66786     7.636     7,146     7,146     7,146     7,146     7,146     7,146     7,146
Investment                                      4,519      1,603
NET ENE"FTS
Net Total Benefit                      1,637    (1,813)     (671)      8"9    3,562      4,206     6,694     6,406    0,400    6,408    3,636
lebt Icrmetal Benfit                            (3,460)   (2,368)     (7,P7)    1,915    2,629     4,067     4,771     4,77      4,77      6,401
FINNIG PLAN
Long Term Loan               903
Dblur_sment                                      4,069    1,761
End of Year                                     4,069    5,766       5, 746    4,496     8,460     2,ae4     1,152         9
Principal                                                                      1,152     1,152     1,162     1,162     1,152                          J
Interet                       lox                 466        786       922       829        45       461       270        92                           OD
Short Term Loans                                3,66       3,66      2,9116    2,903     2,96      2,S0      2,w9      2,90      2,966     2,90
Interest                      161                  660      56        404        464       464       404       464       464       464       464
INET B11EFI1S
MTE FIIWIYCD
liNt Total BeefIt                                1,231      (316)    (6SSl)    1,197     2,66      3,817     4,516     4,76      5,944     7,574
lut Incrementol Beit                              (46)    2,106      3,6157    4,976     3,624     4,2e4     4,U61     3,66      4,307     5,937
DOtENAL RATE OF RETIUN
lforo Ftnancing               31X
CAIS FLOW
Ilt Total Benefit before Financitg              (1,613)     (671)      6im    3,662      4,266     5 694    6.46       6,403     6,4       6,8  a 3
() Fmi ly Labor                               2,009     2,0e      2,03m    2,0e        2,59      2,0e      2,606     2,6       2,66      2,005
(-) Family Consumption                          so        s2        62,1       826      *m         820       626       828       629       oa
Cash benefits before Financing                   (63n)      609    2,06        4,732     5,440     0,874     7,566     7,566    7,668    9,218  ,
(o) Long-Term Loan                            4,069      1,701                                                                                  OQ
(-) Debt Service                              1,615      1,340    1,380      2,446    2,261      2,67      1,6m      1,766                      a q1
Cash Benfits after Financing                     2,411      864        654E    2,267     3,186     4,797     6,0#0    S,63       7,63      9,216  OD
Preducer Contribution (I6)                         461       169 0                                                                                   I.,
Cash Flow                                        2,662     1,0653      64      2,287     3,1865    4,797     6,0#6    5,68       7,668    9,216  rO X
'lccuoulated Cash Flow                           2,862     3,916    4,6711    6,657    10,042    14,639    20,634    26,414    34,062   43,226  co, ,n



- 59 -                  ~~~~~Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
FOU=T AGRICULTURA  CREDIT PROJCT
SELCTED DOCMEN    AVAILAL  IN THE PROJECTF
A.    Airicultural Sector
A.1  Report No. 6332-HO titled 'Honduras Country Economic
Memorandum", IBRD April 17, 1987
A.2   White Cover Report titled 'Agricultural Sector Working Paper"
for the IBRD Report No. 6332-HO prepared by Hugo Diaz, LCPM ,
November 1985.
A.3   White Cover Report titled 'Developments in the Agricultural
Sector of Honduras" prepared by Nathan Koenig, June 10, 1983.
B.    Financial Sector
B.1   Report No. 6129b-HO titled 'Third Industrial Credit Project",
IBRD May 6, 1986.
3.2   Report titled 'The Honduran Banking System" prepared by Onofre
Torres, February 1, 1982.
B*3  Working Paper to the Proposed Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Loan titled "BANADESA" prepared by Aracely do Leo'n, August
1987.
B.4 Report titled "Loan Targeting and Financlal Intermediation
Costs in Honduras"  prepared by Carlos Cuevas, Research
Associate, and Dougls H. Graham, Professor of Agricultural
Economics to the Ohio State University, December 16, 1983.
B.5   Report titled "Costos de Transacci6n para el Prestatario y
Relaciones Banco-Client, en e1 Sector Agropecuario de Honduras"
prepared by Carlos Cuevas and Douglas Graham, January 1985.
C.    Prolect Preiaration
C 1  Repfiblica de Honduras, Cuarto Proyecto de Credito Agropecuario,
Feasibility Study, UPCA-BCH, January 1988.
C.2   Working Documents to the Feasibility Study, UPCA-BCH, January
1988.
C.3   Asistencia Tecnica Privada, UPCA-BCH, Working Document, March
1988.
C.4   Training Component, UPCA-BCH, Working Document, March 1988.
C.5   Tercer Proyecto de Credito Agropecuario, "Manual de Cr;dito",
UPCA-BCH, dated 1984.



Annex 6
60 -                           Page 2 of 2
D.    Workins Papers PrgMared by the Mission
D.1  Financing Honduran Agriculture
D.2   The Commercial Banking System
D.3 Agricultural Background.
D.5   Farm Investment Models
July 21, 1988



