Page  1
                                                            June  11,   1993
Lic. Rene Ardon Matute
Secretario de Estado en el
Despacho de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Tegucigalpa, Honduras
Lic.  Roberto Galvez
Presidente
Banco Central de Honduras
Tegucigalpa, Honduras
Lic.  Daniel Carvajal
Presidente
Federacion de Asociaciones Cooperativas
de Ahorro y Credito de Honduras Ltda.
Tegucigalpa, Honduras
            Re:   Loan 2991-HO (Fourth Agricultural Credit Project)
                  Amendment to Loan Agreement BCH and
                  FACACH Project Agreements
Dear Sirs:
     Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated November .21, 1 988, between
Republic of Honduras (the Borrower) and the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), and to the Project Agreements
between the Bank and Banco Central de Honduras (BCH Project Agreement), and
between the Bank and Federacion de Asociaciones Cooperativas de Ahorro y
Credito de Honduras Ltda. (FACACH Project Agreement), respectively, both
also dated November 21, 1988.
      In response to the letters of the Minister of Hacienda y Credito
Publico and the General Manager of the Banco Central de Honduras, dated
March 16 and 24, 1 993, respectively, in which the Borrower and the Banco
Central de Honduras requested: (a) not to execute Part A.2 of the Project;
(b) to reallocate the funds allocated to the execution of Part A.2 of the
Project to Part A.1 of the Project; (c) to add a new study to Part C of the
Project concerning the evaluation of methods to divest BANADESA; (d) to
extend the closing date until June 30, 1994; and (e) to remove UPCA as the
Project Unit, the Bank, therefore, hereby proposes to amend the Loan
Agreement and the BCH and FACHCA Project Agreements, as follows:
I.    Loan Agreement
1.    Section 2.03 is hereby amended to read as follows:
            "Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1 994 or such
            later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall
            promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.".
2.    All the rights and obligations of the Bank and the Borrower under the
Loan Agreement with respect to Part A.2 of the Project are hereby
terminated.
3.    The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as
set forth in Annex 1 to this letter.
4.    Part C of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      "Part C:  Studies
      The carrying out of studies by Banco Central:
            (i)         to evaluate methods to encourage financial
                        intermediaries to on-lend to low-income producers
                        under competitive terms;
            (ii)        to determine and propose legal, regulatory and
                        procedural changes aimed at increasing the
Page  2
                        effectiveness of utilization of chattel mortgages
                        and mortgages and reducing the costs of
                        establishing both types of mortgages;
            (iii) to analyze and review the system of property rights and
                  title recording in order to improve the ways and means to
                  resort to the use of mortgages to secure, inter alia,
                  agricultural credits;
            (iv)        to analyze transaction costs of Financial
                        Intermediaries and Beneficiaries so as to identify
                        financial intermediation costs and ways to reduce
                        them or to review margins and spreads, or both; and
            (v)         to evaluate methods to divest BANDESA.".
II.   BCH Project Agreement
1.    All the rights and obligations of the Bank and BCH under the BCH
Project Agreement with respect to Part A.2 of the Project are hereby
terminated.
2.    Section 2.08 is hereby amended to read as follows:
            "Section 2.08. Banco Central shall: (a) not later than February
            28, 1 994 carry out the studies under Part C (i), (ii); and (v)
            of the Project; and lb) not later than March 31, 1 994 furnish
            to the Bank for its review, the findings and recommendations of
            each of such studies referred to in (a) herein.".
3.    Paragraph 2 (c) of Section 1 of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read
as follows:
      "c)   Interest on the amount withdrawn  and outstanding under each
            Project Administration Loan will be available and adjusted
            every six months during the life of the Project Administration
            Loan.  The initial rate will be set at 12% per annum and will
            be reviewed and adjusted as necessary to reflect the marginal
            cost of funds to commercial banks, for the period in
            question.".
4.    Substitute the term "UPCA" by the term "Banco Central" in paragraphs
6 and 14 (l) of Section II of Schedule 2.
III.  FACACH Project Agreement
      All the rights and obligations of the Bank and FACACH under the FACACH
Project Agreement are hereby terminated.
      Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing
and dating this letter in the space provided below.  This amendment letter
shall be executed in three counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.
                             Very truly yours
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                         /s/  Edilberto L. Segura
                                 Director
                           Country Department II
                      Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
Republic of Honduras
/s/ Lic. Rene Ardon Matute
Page  3
By
    Authorized Representative
Ministro de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Date: June 28, 1993
Banco Central de Honduras
/s/ Roberto Galvez Barnes
By:
    Authorized Representative
Presidente
Banco Central de Honduras
Date:    June  28,  1993
Federacion de Asociaciones Cooperativas
de Ahorro y Credito     de Honduras Ltda.
/s/ Daniel N. Carvajal
By:
      Authorized Representative
Gerente General
Date:  June  28, 1993
Annex
"1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated                % of
                              (Expressed in                 Expenditures
      Category                Dollar Equivalent             to be Financed
(1)   Subloans                    4,100,000                 90% of amounts
      Small-Scale Farmers                                   disbursed by
      by Financial Inter-                                   Banco Central
      mediaries other                                       under correspond-
      than FACACH Credit                                    ing Project
      Unions under                                          Administration
      Part A(1) of the                                      Loans
      Project
(2)   Subloans to other          19,900,000                 90% of amounts
      Beneficiaries by                                      disbursed by
      Financial Inter-                                      Banco Central
      mediaries other                                       under corres-
      than FACACH Credit                                    ponding Project
      Unions under                                          Administration
      Part A(1) and                                         Loans
      Part A(3) of the
      Project
(3)   Subloans made by                0
      FACACH Credit
      Unions to Bene-
      ficiaries under
      Part A(2) of
      the  Project
(4)   Extension Services,         1,000,000                 100%
      Training and Studies
      under Parts B(2),
      B(3) and C
      of the Project
Page  4
      TOTAL                      25,000,000
                                ===========
