Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2991 HO
               (Fourth Agricultural Credit Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
            FEDERACION DE ASOCIACIONES COOPERATIVAS DE
                AHORRO Y CREDITO DE HONDURAS LTDA.
                      Dated November 21, 1988
                     FACACH PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  November  21,  1988,  between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND  DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and FEDERACION
DE ASOCIACIONES COOPERATIVAS DE AHORRO Y CREDITO DE HONDURAS LTDA.
(hereinafter called FACACH).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Republic of Honduras  (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to  make  available  to  the Borrower an amount in
various  currencies  equivalent  to  twenty-five  million  dollars
($25,000,000), on the terms and  conditions  set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on  condition  that  FACACH agree to undertake
such  obligations  toward  the  Bank  as  are  set  forth  in this
Agreement;
     (B)  by a subsidiary  loan  agreement  (the FACACH Subsidiary
Loan Agreement)  to  be  entered  into  between  the Borrower, the
Borrower's Central Bank, as trustee of the Trust Fund (as the term
is defined in the Loan  Agreement),  and  FACACH, a portion of the
proceeds  of  the  loan  provided  for  under  the  Loan Agreement
Page  2
necessary to carry out  Part  A  (2)  of  the Project will be made
available to FACACH on the  terms  and conditions set forth in the
FACACH Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS FACACH, in consideration  of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the  Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
               Execution of Part A(2) of the Project
     Section 2.01. FACACH  declares  its  commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this  end,  shall  carry  out  Part A(2) of the
Project with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial  and agricultural practices,
and shall provide, or  cause  to  be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services  and  other resources required for
the Project.
     Section 2.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for Part A(2)  of  the  Project  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of  the  Loan  shall  be  governed  by  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the FACACH Project Agreement.
     Section 2.03.  FACACH  shall  carry  out  the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect  of  the FACACH
Project Agreement and Part A(2) of the Project.
     Section 2.04. FACACH shall:
     (a)  enter into the FACACH Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the
Borrower and the Trustee  which  will  provide access by FACACH to
the proceeds  of  the  Loan  if,  according  to  audited financial
statements,  FACACH  is  able   to  demonstrate  solvency  at  the
beginning of the First Year and of each Successive Year;
     (b)  for the  purposes  of  carrying  out  Part  A(2)  of the
Project, enter  into  lending  contracts  with  each FACACH Credit
Union (the Project  Administration  Contracts)  on  such terms and
conditions as shall be  satisfactory  to  the Bank, including such
terms and conditions  as  are  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may  be  amended  from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower and  the Bank and Banco Central and
FACACH, in respect of Project  Administration Loans and in respect
of the procedures for and terms and conditions of Sub-loans;
     (c)  duly  perform  all  its  obligations  under  the  FACACH
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and each Project Administration Contract
referred to in (b)  above  and  exercise its rights thereunder, in
such a manner as  to  protect  the  interests of the Borrower, the
Bank, and Banco Central and  FACACH and to accomplish the purposes
of the Loan, and except as  the Bank shall otherwise agree, FACACH
shall not assign, nor amend,  abrogate,  waive or fail to enforce,
the  FACACH  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  any  aforesaid  Project
Administration Contract, or any provision thereof.
Page  3
     Section 2.05. (a) FACACH shall,  at  the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with  regard to progress of Part A(2)
of the Project,  the  performance  of  its  obligations under this
Agreement, the  FACACH  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  each Project
Administration Contract entered into  by FACACH, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  FACACH shall promptly inform  the  Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment  of  the  purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by FACACH of  its obligations under this Agreement
and  under  the  FACACH  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  or  of  the
performance  by  each  FACACH   Credit  Union  under  its  Project
Administration Contract  or  by  Banco  Central  under  the FACACH
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. FACACH shall  furnish  to Banco Central and the
Bank, promptly upon  their  execution,  certified  copies of every
Project Administration Contract,  and  shall  furnish to the Bank,
upon request, copies of any Sub-loan Contract.
                            ARTICLE III
                Management and Operations of FACACH
     Section  3.01.  FACACH  shall  carry  on  its  operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial and  agricultural  practices  under  the  supervision of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. FACACH shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make  other  provision satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and  in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) FACACH shall maintain and cause each Credit
Union to maintain  records  and  accounts  adequate  to reflect in
accordance with  sound  accounting  practices  its  operations and
financial condition,  including  separate  accounts reflecting its
operations in connection with Part A(2) of the Project.
     (b)  FACACH shall:
          (i)  have and cause each FACACH Credit Union to have its
               records, accounts and financial statements (balance
               sheets,  statements  of  income  and  expenses  and
               related statements) for  each  fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish  and  cause  each  FACACH  Credit  Union to
               furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year:  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning  said   records,   accounts  and  financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  for all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
Page  4
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, FACACH shall:
          (i)  maintain and  cause  each  FACACH  Credit  Union to
               maintain  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain  and  cause  each  FACACH  Credit  Union  to
               retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable and cause each FACACH Credit Union to enable
               the Bank's representatives to examine such records;
               and
         (iv)  ensure and cause each FACACH Credit Union to ensure
               that such records and  accounts are included in the
               annual audit referred to  in  paragraph (a) of this
               Section and that the  report of such audit contains
               a separate opinion by  said  auditors as to whether
               the statements of expenditure submitted during such
               fiscal  year,  together  with  the  procedures  and
               internal controls  involved  in  their preparation,
               can  be  relied   upon   to   support  the  related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of FACACH thereunder shall terminate  on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify FACACH thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
Page  5
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For FACACH:
          Apartado Postal 653
          Tegucigalpa, D.C.
          Honduras, C.A.
                                            Telefax:
                                               ____________
                                               ____________
     With copy to:
          Banco Central de Honduras
          Tegucigalpa. D.C.
          Honduras
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf  of  FACACH,  or  by  FACACH  on behalf of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the
President of  FACACH  or  such  other  person  or  persons  as the
President of FACACH shall  designate  in writing, and FACACH shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient  evidence  of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Rainer Steckhan
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                        FEDERACION DE ASOCIACIONES COOPERATIVAS DE
                                AHORRO Y CREDITO DE HONDURAS LTDA.
                    By /s/ Jorge Ramon Hernandez Alcerro
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Procurement of Goods and Works
     Contracts for goods and works  under Part A(2) of the Project
shall be procured  by  Beneficiaries  receiving Sub-loans, through
normal domestic commercial channels  from responsible suppliers at
a reasonable price, taking  into consideration such other relevant
factors as time  of  delivery,  efficiency  and reliability of the
Page  6
goods and availability of  spare  parts and maintenance facilities
therefor, and in the case of  works, the quality and competence of
the parties performing such works.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                Lending and Operating Policies and
             Procedures under Part A(2) of the Project
SECTION I.  PROJECT ADMINISTRATION CONTRACTS
1.   FACACH will enter into  Project Administration Contracts with
each FACACH Credit Union  wishing  to  participate in Part A(2) of
the Project.  Each Project Administration Contract shall stipulate
that, in order to have access  to financing under Part A(2) of the
Project, each  FACACH  Credit  Union  will  have  to  meet, at the
beginning of the First  Year,  and, except if otherwise stipulated
below,  maintain  thereafter  during   the  First  Year  and  each
Successive  Year,  at  the  satisfaction  of  UPCA,  the following
criteria:
     (a)  evidence of solvency  as  demonstrated by external audit
of the financial statements;
     (b)  at least 65% of  the  aggregate of amounts payable under
the loan  portfolio  are  fully  on  time;  for  purposes  of this
Section, "fully on time" means  the  aggregate of amounts that are
still payable under the portfolio, as of the time of the review in
question, excluding from such  aggregate  the  sum of: (A) amounts
that have been rescheduled or  refinanced; and (B) amounts not yet
due under loans in respect  of  which these are amounts overdue as
of the date of such review;
     (c)  the recovery rate  for  its  portfolio  should be higher
than 70%  at  the  end  of  the  First  Year  and  during the next
following Successive Year  and  than  the  rate  applicable to the
preceding twelve-month period increased  by two percentage points,
at the end of each  Successive  Year and during the next following
Successive Year; said recovery  rate  to  be measured by the total
amount  of  cash   collected   as   debt  service  payments  under
outstanding loans  under  such  portfolio  during  a  given period
expressed as a percentage of  total amounts due and payable during
that period;
     (d)  membership requirements that ensure participation of the
community at large; and
     (e)  have at least 100 active  members,  of which 50% must be
primarily   dedicated   to   agricultural   activities   and  have
representation in  the  credit  committee,  vigilance committee or
Board of Directors of the Credit Union in question.
2.   (a)  Each  Project  Administration  Contract  with  a  FACACH
Credit Union will require that  the  proceeds  of the Loan be used
exclusively for granting  Sub-loans  to Beneficiaries for carrying
out  very  simple  and  basic  Investment  Plans  under  terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The objectives of the lending
program would be  to  promote  rural development through increased
production and improved extension  services by providing long-term
and short-term credit, all in  accordance with the eligibility and
lending terms set  out  in  Section  II  of this Schedule. Project
Administration  Loans  will   be   denominated  and  repayable  in
Lempiras;
     (b)  each Project Administration  Loan  will  finance 100% of
the amount  of  each  Sub-loan  made  by  the corresponding FACACH
Credit Union to a Beneficiary, but the aggregate of borrowing by a
FACACH Credit Union under  a  Project Administration Loan will not
exceed at  any  time,  the  lower  of  the  aggregate of voluntary
deposits or capital contributions, from the Union members;
     (c)  interest on the  amount  withdrawn and outstanding under
Page  7
each Project Administration  Loan  will  be  variable and adjusted
every six months  during  the  life  of the Project Administration
Loan at a rate two percentage  points  over the rate to be charged
for the same period  under  the  FACACH Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
reflecting thus the  changes  in  the  marginal  cost  of funds to
commercial banks, as determined by Banco Central;
     (d)  each Financial  Intermediary  will  agree  to  repay the
principal of,  and  to  pay  interest  and  other  charges on, the
Project Administration Loan on  the  same dates that repayments of
principal and payments  of  interest  on  the Sub-loan in question
fall  due  and   the   amortization   schedule   of  each  Project
Administration Loan shall  be  amended  from  time  to time to the
extent required to conform  in  relevant part substantially to the
aggregate of the  amortization  schedules  applicable to Sub-loans
financed thereunder;
     (e)  each Financial Intermediary will  assume the credit risk
on each Sub-loan made;
     (f)  each Financial Intermediary will make its best effort to
accept interim land titles  and  chattel mortgages in agricultural
products as security for Sub-loans;
     (g)  technical  staff  of  the  Financial  Intermediary  will
assist, or cause assistance  to  be provided to, Beneficiaries for
the preparation of  Investment  Plans  and  also provide financial
supervision to Beneficiaries through the period of investment;
     (h)  each Financial Intermediary  will establish and maintain
a separate Project account with  as many Sub-loan accounts as will
be reasonably required  by  the  Bank  and  UPCA,  pursuant to the
provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
     (i)  each  Financial  Intermediary  will  have  its accounts,
including  its  Project  account  Sub-loan  accounts  and  related
statements, audited annually by  external auditors satisfactory to
FACACH and the Bank pursuant to  the provisions of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement;
     (j)  each Financial  Intermediary  will  provide  UPCA or the
Bank with such  other  information  concerning the Project Account
and Sub-loan accounts and related  statements  as UPCA or the Bank
might reasonably request;
     (k)  the Project  Administration  Contract  may be suspended,
partially or totally, or terminated by  FACACH in the event of any
one or more of the following circumstances:
          (i)  that the Financial Intermediary  has failed to make
               due and punctual  payment  to  FACACH of any amount
               payable under the Project Administration Contract;
         (ii)  that the Financial Intermediary has failed to carry
               out satisfactorily any  other  obligation under the
               Project Administration Contract;
        (iii)  that the Financial Intermediary  has been unable to
               pay its debts as they matured;
         (iv)  that  any  legal   proceeding  has  been  initiated
               whereby  any  of  the  property  of  the  Financial
               Intermediary  could  be   attached,  foreclosed  or
               distributed among its creditors; and
          (v)  that the Financial Intermediary  has ceased to have
               access to  the  Loan  proceeds  by  not meeting the
               criteria set forth in Part  1 above or in paragraph
               (l) below; and
     (l)  compliance with the following  criteria is required from
each of the FACACH  Credit  Unions  wishing to participate in Part
Page  8
A(2) of the  Project  in  order  to  have  continued access to the
financing thereunder:
          (i)  maintaining   adequate   financial   condition  and
               management, including compliance  with the auditing
               requirements established  by  the relevant national
               laws; and
         (ii)  maintaining an adequate  performance to be assessed
               by UPCA on  the  basis  of:  (A)  the recovery rate
               stipulated in Part l (c) above and (B) a reasonable
               representative sample:  (a)  that the Beneficiaries
               are primarily  engaged  in agricultural activities;
               (b) that all terms  and conditions of Sub-loans are
               the same as  for  comparable  loans  made by FACACH
               Credit Union and funded with its own resources; and
               (c)   satisfactory   compliance   with   terms  and
               conditions for making  Sub-loans  in  respect of at
               least 90% of Sub-loans made  by the Credit Union in
               question.
SECTION II.  SUB-LOAN CONTRACTS - Procedures for and Terms and
Conditions of Sub-loans
Eligibility of Sub-borrowers
3.   Any member of a FACACH Credit Union who qualifies as a Small-
scale Farmer and is  interested  in  investing in any agricultural
activity, will be eligible  to  apply  for a Sub-loan.  Investment
Plans may include any  one  or  more  of the following categories:
infrastructure,   construction   of   buildings   and  facilities,
machinery and equipment,  land  clearing or improvement, including
the establishment or  renovation  of  pastures, semi-permanent and
permanent crops and  trees,  and  breeding  cattle  less than four
years of age. The Sub-loan may include the cost of land survey and
titling,  and  of   consultant   services  for  assistance  during
execution of the Investment Plan to the extent that each such cost
does not exceed up to 10% of total costs of the Investment Plan in
question.
Classification of Beneficiaries
4.   An applicant for Sub-loan will be classified as a Small-scale
Farmer if it has total  assets (including land, farm machinery and
livestock)  directly  related   to   agricultural  activities  not
exceeding the equivalent of $40,000.
Technical Assistance and Supervision
5.   Credit applicants  may  be  assisted  in  the  preparation of
Investment  Plans  by  the   technical   staff  of  the  Financial
Intermediary. The cost of  private consultant services, other than
those of the Financial Intermediary  staff, will be acceptable for
financing in accordance with paragraph 3 above.
6.   The UPCA, FACACH and  the  Financial Intermediary will ensure
that  amounts  drawn  on  Sub-loans  are  applied  exclusively  to
expenditures for  the  Investment  Plans  of  FACACH  Credit Union
members to be financed thereunder.
7.   The  staff  of  each  Financial  Intermediary  will regularly
inspect the farms that have received Sub-loans therefrom to ensure
that  each  Beneficiary  effectively  and  punctually  carries the
investments proposed under  the  corresponding Investment Plan and
complies with the provisions of its Sub-loan Contract.
8.   The staff of UPCA  and  FACACH  will  regularly inspect, on a
random sample basis, the farms  that have benefited from Sub-loans
to  ensure  that  the  Financial  Intermediary  is  fulfilling its
responsibilities.
Page  9
Creditworthiness and Approval of Investment Plans
9.   The evaluation of the  creditworthiness of applicants and the
preparation  and  analysis  of  Investment  Plans  and  of  credit
applications will be made by  FACACH that will approve packages of
one or more Investment Plans  of  up to the equivalent of $100,000
per Financial Intermediaries. The approval by UPCA of a package of
Investment Plans expected  to  cost  more  than  the equivalent of
$100,000 per Financial Intermediary,  will  be required before the
respective Sub-loan Contract could be declared effective.
Maximum Aggregate Borrowing
10.  No expenditures for goods or  services for an Investment Plan
shall be eligible for financing  out  of  the Loan unless the Sub-
loan for such Investment  Plan  shall have been approved following
the procedures stipulated  in  9  above.  A Financial Intermediary
will not be permitted to lend to a Beneficiary an amount in excess
of one time the Beneficiary's  total assets or $40,000 equivalent,
including amounts outstanding under  other  Sub-loans or under any
loan financed  under  outstanding  Prior  Agreements, whichever is
lower.
Livestock Development
11.  The purchase  of  breeding  livestock  under Investment Plans
will be subject to the following limitations:
     (a)  livestock will be four years old or less;
     (b)  Financial  Intermediaries  will   not  be  permitted  to
approve any Sub-loan for  an  Investment  Plan which proposes that
more than 50% of the  investments  be used for livestock purchase;
and
     (c)  notwithstanding  the  provisions   of   (a)  above,  the
Regional Director of UPCA will be able to approve Investment Plans
in  which  no  more  than  60%  has  been  assigned  for livestock
purchase, provided that at that time and in the foreseeable future
no more than 35% of the value of all Investment Plans approved for
the Project has been assigned to the purchase of livestock.
12.  Pasture improvement will be  emphasized vis-a-vis land clear-
ing as a mean to increase animal feed.
Sub-loans
13.  Each Sub-loan Contract will, inter alia, provide:
     (a)  that such Sub-loans will be denominated and repayable in
Lempiras;
     (b)  that any Sub-loan to be provided by FACACH Credit Unions
will be either a Long-term Sub-loan,  for an Investment Plan, or a
Short-term Sub-loan, provided it is invested in minor agricultural
activities under a less  detailed  Investment  Plan  and made to a
member of the  FACACH  Credit  Union  who qualifies as Small-scale
Farmer;
     (c)  that interest  on  the  principal  amount  withdrawn and
outstanding under each  Sub-loan  will  be variable and adjustable
every six  months  reflecting  changes  in  the  market on-lending
interest rate but without  any adjustment exceeding one percentage
point every six months unless  there has been a significant change
in the inflation rate  during  the immediately preceding six-month
period, as determined by the  Bank and Banco Central; the interest
rate, will be set at  the  rate and other conditions prevailing on
loans made from the Credit Union's own internal funds;
     (d)  that repayment terms of Short-term Sub-loans will be the
shortest possible, but  never  exceeding  eighteen months from the
date of the first disbursement thereunder;
Page  10
     (e)  that the amount of the Long-term Sub-loan may finance up
to 100%  of  the  estimated  cost  of  the  Investment  Plan to be
financed therewith;
     (f)  that the repayment  terms  of Long-term Sub-loan reflect
the payment ability of the Sub-borrower and the cash flow position
of the Investment Plan, provided, however, that such terms will be
for at least 18 months and  not exceed 12 years, including a grace
period not exceeding five years;
     (g)  that procurement procedures  will  be in accordance with
the requirements contained in Schedule l to this Agreement;
     (h)  that  the  Beneficiary  will  insure,  or  make adequate
provisions for the insurance of, goods to be imported specifically
for an Investment Plan and to be financed out of the proceeds of a
Sub-loan,   against   hazards   incident   to   the   acquisition,
transportation and delivery to the place of use or installation;
     (i)  that the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Sub-loan be used exclusively in carrying out the simple and
basic Investment Plan in question;
     (j)  for the right of FACACH or the Financial Intermediary to
require the  Beneficiary  to  carry  out  the  Investment  Plan in
question and to operate  the  facilities included therein with due
diligence and efficiency and  in  accordance with sound technical,
financial  and  managerial  standards,  and  to  maintain adequate
records;
     (k)  for  the  right  of  the  Bank,  FACACH,  UPCA  and  the
Financial Intermediary to  inspect  the  goods, land, sites, works
and construction financed under  a Sub-loan, the operation thereof
and any relevant records and documents; and
     (l)  for the right of FACACH or the Financial Intermediary to
suspend or terminate access  by  the Beneficiary, respectively, to
the use of  the  proceeds  of  the  Sub-loan  upon  failure by the
Beneficiary to perform any  of  its obligations under the Sub-loan
Contract.
SECTION III. REVIEW OF LENDING CONDITIONS
14.  The Bank, the Borrower,  FACACH  and Banco Central will, from
time to time, amend the lending  terms and conditions set forth in
this Schedule to the extent necessary to:
     (a)  ensure  the   compatibility   of   the   interest  rates
applicable under the Project  with  interest rates in Honduras for
lending  for  investment,   provided   that   the  interest  rates
applicable under the Project remain positive in real terms; and
     (b)  ensure the continuance  of  the incentives for Financial
Intermediaries, including those  designed  to encourage lending to
Small-scale Farmers.
