                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2225



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-74280)



                                    ON A

                                    LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5.0 MILLION

                                   TO THE

                     FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                    FOR A

       STATE PENSION REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT II



                                 June 25, 2012




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Brazil Country Management Unit, LCC5C
Latin America and the Caribbean Department
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective April 2012)

                           Currency Unit = R$
                            1.00 = US$ 0.55
                             US$ 1.00 = 1.8

                             FISCAL YEAR


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CGU         External Audit Office (Controladoria Geral da União)
COFIEX      External Financing Commission (Comissão de Financiamentos
            Externos)
CONAPREV    National Council of State Pension Officials (Conselho Nacional dos
            Dirigentes de Regimes Proprios de Previdência Social)
CPS         Country Partnership Strategy
GOB         Government of Brazil
MPS         Social Security Ministry (Ministério de Previdência Social)
PARSEP      State Pension Reform LIL (P057910)
PARSEP II   State Pension Reform II TAL (P089793)
PCU         Project Coordinating Unit
PREVMUN     Municipal Pension Reform TAL (P074777)
RPPS        Public Officials‘ Pension System (Regime Próprio de Previdência
            Social)
RGPS        General Public‘s Pension System (Regime Geral de Previdência
            Social)
SIPREV      Social Security Software (Sistema Previdenciário)
SPS         Social Security Policy Secretariat (Secretaria de Políticas de
            Previdência Social)
UAM         Unified Administration Model
UPA         Unified Pension Administrator




                       Vice President: Hasan A. Tuluy
                     Country Director: Deborah L. Wetzel
                      Sector Manager: Arturo Herrera Gutierrez
                        Sector Leader: Pablo Fajnzylber
                 Project Team Leader: Mariano Lafuente
                    ICR Team Leader: Mariano Lafuente
                     ICR Main Author Daniela Felcman
                                           BRAZIL
                      State Pension Reform Technical Assistance Project II



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 10
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 15
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 21
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 22
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 25
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 26
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 27
  Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 30
  Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 31
  Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 32
  Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 34
  Annex 7. The Cadastre Upgrade (Recadastramento) Methodology ............................. 35
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                         State Pension Reform II
Country:                Brazil                  Project Name:
                                                                         TAL
Project ID:             P089793                 L/C/TF Number(s):        IBRD-74280
ICR Date:               03/19/2012              ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                         GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:
                                                                         BRAZIL
Original Total
                        USD 5.00M               Disbursed Amount:        USD 4.71M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 5.00M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Social Security Ministry
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process                Date          Process             Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/14/2005     Effectiveness:            10/07/2008        10/07/2008
                                                                                 01/20/2011
Appraisal:            03/13/2006     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                 05/03/2011
                                                                                No mid-term
Approval:             02/13/2007     Mid-term Review:                           review was
                                                                                 conducted
                                     Closing:                  06/30/2011        12/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower                       Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:                  Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately         Implementing                 Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                        Unsatisfactory     Agency/Agencies:             Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank            Moderately         Overall Borrower             Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory     Performance:                 Unsatisfactory

                                                                                              ii
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     32                  32
Law and justice                                                        3                   3
Sub-national government administration                                65                  65


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               40                  40
Other public sector governance                                        40                  40
Social risk mitigation                                                20                  20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Hasan A. Tuluy                       Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Deborah L. Wetzel                    John Briscoe
Sector Manager:            Arturo Herrera Gutierrez             Fernando Rojas
Project Team Leader:       Mariano Lafuente                     Deborah L. Wetzel and Chris Parel
ICR Team Leader:           Mariano Lafuente
ICR Primary Author:        Daniela Veronica Felcman


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Upgrade state pension management (RPPS system for civil servants) thereby significantly
reducing unwarranted pension claims, improving financial sustainability, strengthening
state and federal institutions, and building reform constituencies.

  See attachment for detailed Results Monitoring

                                                                                               iii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                      Original Target                            Actual Value
                                        Values (from     Formally Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator      Baseline Value
                                          approval         Target Values        Completion or
                                         documents)                              Target Years
                Reduction in unwarranted pension claims, improved financial management and
Indicator 1 : sustainability, strengthened state and federal pension institutions, and new reform
                constituencies
                                                        Cadastre upgrade
                                                                              Upgrade completed
                                                        ongoing in 17 states
Value                                                                         for 15 states with
                                                        covering highest
quantitative or 0                    N/A                                      potential savings
                                                        number possible of
Qualitative)                                                                  estimated at USD
                                                        public servants
                                                                              26.2 million.
                                                        based on available r
Date achieved 01/10/2007                                06/30/2011            12/31/2011
Comments
                Partially achieved (cadastre upgrade completed in 15 of 17 states; annual
(incl. %
                potential savings identified of US$26.2 million)
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                       Original Target                              Actual Value
                                         Values (from      Formally Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator      Baseline Value
                                           approval          Target Values        Completion or
                                          documents)                               Target Years
                Identification of significant cost reduction potential through conclude cadastre
Indicator 1 : upgrades and system integration for executive, legislative and judicial powers
                (17 states)
                                                          Cadastre upgrade
                                      20 states with      ongoing in 17 states Upgrade completed
Value                                 cadastre upgrade covering highest         for 15 states with
(quantitative   0                     completed for all number possible of potential savings
or Qualitative)                       branches $150m public servants            estimated at USD
                                      potential benefits based on available 26.2 million.
                                                          resources.
Date achieved 01/10/2007                                  06/30/2011            12/31/2011
Comments
                Partially achieved (cadastre upgrade completed in 15 of 17 states; annual
(incl. %
                potential savings identified of US$26.2 million)
achievement)




                                                                                                iv
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                         IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1    04/19/2007       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    07/16/2007   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              0.00
                         Moderately                Moderately
  3    06/27/2008                                                                 0.00
                       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
  4    12/19/2008   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory             0.00
  5    06/23/2009   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory             0.00
                         Moderately                Moderately
  6    12/14/2009                                                                 0.00
                       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                Moderately
  7    06/24/2010                                                                 0.00
                       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                Moderately
  8    02/14/2011                                                                 1.64
                       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
 9     05/10/2011   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory             3.07
 10    11/02/2011   Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory                    3.73
 11    01/01/2012   Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory                    3.82

H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Change in Institutional
                                                     Arrangements (to recognize the
 01/20/2011       N       MU    MU            0.00
                                                     Minister of Social Security as
                                                     the Borrower's Representative)
                                                     Extension of closing date,
                                                     reallocation of loan proceeds,
 05/03/2011       N       MU    MU            3.07   and changes in subcomponents
                                                     and intermediate outcome
                                                     indicators




                                                                                          v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      One of the most important macroeconomic issues confronting Brazilian Federal
and state governments at the time of Project appraisal was the fiscal burden associated
with pensions. Brazil has two public and mandatory retirement regimes that operate on a
pay-as-you-go (PAYG) basis: the General Public‘s Pension System (Regime Geral de
Previdência Social - RGPS) for private sector workers and the Public Officials‘ Pension
System (Regime Próprio de Previdência Social - RPPS) for public sector workers at the
federal, state and municipal levels of government. The number of workers contributing to
these two programs at the time of appraisal was less than 40 percent of the labor force,
reflecting the high degree of informality. This coverage ratio was higher than the average
ratio in Latin America, but lower than ratios in the OECD. However, coverage of the
elderly was much higher, amounting to 85 percent of the population above 70 years of
age, reflecting special quasi-contributory programs managed by the RGPS, especially in
the rural areas.

2.      Since 1999 the Brazilian Government has implemented several rounds of fiscal
reforms designed to restore fiscal and macroeconomic equilibrium, and to improve the
efficiency and social impact of fiscal expenditures and revenues 1, including important
pension reforms. In December 1998 the Constitutional amendment No. 20 altered the
benefit formula in the Constitutional text, opening the way for further reforms. It also
introduced several specific changes, such as a benefit ceiling in the RGPS indexed to
inflation, a minimum age of retirement in the RPPS (60-55 for men and women
respectively) with a period of transition, and a minimum vesting period of 10 years to
receive higher RPPS benefits. In December 2003, through Constitutional amendment No.
41, the RPPS was reformed. The reform included stricter rules for retirement in the public
sector, less generous benefit and indexation formulas, less generous survivor pensions,
the possibility for imposing an overall benefit ceiling subject to the creation of a
complementary pension fund, overall wage and benefit caps on current pensioners, and
the imposition of an 11 percent contribution on all public sector retirees.

3.     Even though these reforms reduced the imbalances of the pension system, they
did not alter the expectations of growing pension deficits in the following decade,
primarily as a result of the increasing expenditures in the RGPS. Because the political
conditions were not given for another major reform, the Government opted to reduce
pension deficits through improvements in the administration of the RPPS and the RGPS.




1
 These fiscal reforms have included the extensive restructuring of sub-national debt followed by strict
conditions on the management of sub-national finances, the introduction of the Law on Fiscal
Responsibility—a legal landmark in Brazil that has changed the way public officials behave and operate,
several improvements in the public debt management framework, and initial tax reform measures.


                                                  1
4.       The Second State Pension Reform Technical Assistance Project (PARSEP II) was
to build upon the first State Pension Systems Reform Loan (PARSEP), which had
produced significant fiscal benefits (total potential savings for the 9 states which provided
data were calculated in R$255,387,600 at the time of project completion2), and a battery
of institutional strengthening initiatives and reforms supported by new legislation to
expand and consolidate gains in a number of key areas: cadastres, systems, legislative
compliance and managerial capacity. The World Bank supported the Government for the
reform of the RPPS and RGPS through nine operations, including four Adjustment
Operations and five Sector Investment Loans (TALs, SILs, LILs) dedicated to pension
reform or with pension components. The five largest operations had commitments of $2.2
billion. The remaining four totaled $30m and included three loans for $5 million each —
these were PARSEP, PREVMUN (municipalities), both addressing RPPS issues, and the
Social Security Technical Assistance Project, a LIL addressing RGPS. This underlined
the importance of pension reform in the Bank‘s Brazil program. A DPL loan, ―Social
Security Reform‖ (P086525), approved in June, 2005, supported the preceding round of
pension reforms and played an important role in the Country Assistance Strategy
endorsed by the Board in December 20033. The loan was considered to be part of the
cluster of fiscal reform loans, but was the first programmatic fiscal reform loan dedicated
to social security reform. It was expected that the reform to the RPPS supported by this
series of operations would reduce the growth of RPPS pension expenditures and deficits,
generate some fiscal savings during the following decade, and reduce significantly the net
present value of future RPPS deficits, especially at the level of states and municipalities.
Hence, the reform would contribute significantly to long-run fiscal and macroeconomic
stability.

5.     Despite the progress made in PARSEP I, the project only co-financed full
cadastre upgrades in the executive branches of 17 states4. PARSEP II was to conclude the
cadastre upgrade initiated in the previous loan, including the executive branches of states
that had not participated, and expanding the coverage to include other powers (judicial
and legislative).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

6.      The objective of PARSEP II was to enhance fiscal stability and sustainable
economic growth in the Participating States through improved pension management.
Specifically, PARSEP II would reduce unwarranted pension claims in pension systems
covering civil servants (RPPS), and upgrade pension management through institutional
strengthening initiatives targeting upgrade of cadastres, systems and managerial capacity.
The project would also aim at strengthening the pension reform constituency.




2
  ICR for the State Pension Systems Reform Technical Assistance Project (PARSEP). Report No. 35840-
BR
3
  Country Assistance Strategy 2003-2007 for the Federative Republic of Brazil. Report No. 27043-BR
4
  ICR for PARSEP I, page 7. Report No. 35840-BR


                                                  2
7.       PARSEP II targets were to reach at least 20 of the participating 27 entities (26
states plus the Federal District) in critical systems and organizational strengthening
activities. Table 1 presents project objectives and key performance indicators.

              Table 1. Project Objectives and Key Performance Indicators

PDO                                                  PDO Indicator
To enhance fiscal stability and sustainable          Reduction in unwarranted pension claims,
economic growth in the Participating States          improved       financial     management       and
through improved pension management                  sustainability, strengthened state and federal
                                                     pension institutions, and new reform
                                                     constituencies
Strategic Objectives                                 Key Indicators
(i) Reduce pension costs through cadastre                    Conclude cadastre upgrade for
upgrade to eliminate unwarranted beneficiary         executive, legislative and judicial powers (20
payments                                             states).
                                                             Identify aggregate annual savings
                                                     (US$150 million)
(ii) Reduce pension costs from unwarranted                   Install and operationalize SIPREV and
benefits payments through systems upgrade            modules (20 states)
                                                             Reduce aggregate annual benefits
                                                     payments through HR data base upgrades and
                                                     systematic cross referencing with the obits and
                                                     other systems (savings included in (i) above)
                                                     (20 states)
                                                             Develop and install a payroll module
(iii) Analyze the costs and develop fiscal                   Complete combined actuarial and
strategies to mitigate the fiscal burden             financial analyses (20 states)
(iv) Assist states in implementing ‗unified                  Provide IT hardware and requisite
pension administration‘                              technical assistance to allow states to use
                                                     SIPREV and its modules (20 states)
                                                             Complete, disseminate and debate
                                                     study of normative UAM organizational
                                                     models
(v) Strengthen institutional capacity in the                 Participation     MPS       programmed
Ministry of Social Security and states through       training venues—20 states
training, dissemination and workshops.                       Complete, disseminate and debate two
                                                     studies: (i) states‘ disability insurance system,
                                                     and (ii) link between health security and RPPS
                                                     systems
                                                             Support consolidation of CONAPREV
                                                     (national council of RPPS officials) (10
                                                     workshops)
(vi) Strengthen states‘ reform constituencies                Support state sponsored stakeholder
                                                     pension workshops (20 states)




                                                 3
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

8.       Neither the PDO nor the associated PDO level indicator were revised. However,
the end-of-project target value for the PDO level indicator was revised to reduce the
number of states with cadastre upgrade from 20 to 17. This was to reflect the reduction in
the number of participating states under the project and the available loan resources given
that the actual cost of cadastre upgrade were significantly higher than at appraisal stage.
The reduction in the number of states is explained in part by the changes in the exchange
rates and increased costs of cadastre upgrade as compared to appraisal estimates (as
described in Section 1.7), and in part to the lack of political commitment of some states
and branches to implement the cadastre upgrade. From the 24 states that had initially
expressed interest in participating, the project only had sufficient resources to support
cadastre upgrade in 19 states, due to exchange rates differentials and increased costs. Of
those 19 states, 4 desisted from participating after committing to do so and the
procurement process had taken place. In any case, the project supported a cadastre
upgrade for the highest possible number of civil servants given the available resources
and, in fact, the government invested additional funds to cover some of the institutions. In
addition, the intermediate outcome indicators were also revised to reflect the reduction in
project scope including the cancellation of several planned activities to focus the project
activities on cadastre upgrade (see Section 1.6 for details).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

9.       PARSEP II was expected to support at least 20 of the 26 states of Brazil plus the
Federal District with their goal to improve the management of pension covering civil
servants and reduce the associated fiscal burden. Therefore, the target population was,
first, the state governments participating in the program, including judicial and legislative
branches not included in the first loan. Second, public officials enrolled in the RPPS
would benefit from having pension funds analyzed and actuarial problems delineated.
Third, all Brazil taxpayers – roughly 190 million inhabitants – would benefit from the
eventual reduction in unwarranted pension payments and increased fiscal space, enabling
resources to be channeled into other activities.

1.5 Original Components

10.    As stated above, PARSEP II was a follow-up loan building on the objectives and
components of the first operation, but expanding to include the judicial and legislative
branches in addition to the executive. The loan had five components, described below.

Component 1. Upgrade Cadastres and Information Technology

11.     This component would complete the upgrade of executive branch pension
registers begun under PARSEP and launch and complete similar work for legislative and
judicial branches and agencies not covered by the first loan. It would also upgrade and
integrate state personnel systems. This work would enable states to meet legal



                                             4
requirements for upgraded, unified systems and administration. Specific subcomponents
included:

 Subcomponent 1.1. 5 Complete the Executive branch cadastre upgrade. The
subcomponent would extend cadastre upgrade to the entire Executive branch complement
of pensioners, inactive and active employees and include states that had not participated
in the first loan.

 Subcomponent 1.2. Upgrade the Legislative & Judicial branches and other cadastres.
This subcomponent would extend cadastre update to the autonomous legislative and
judicial branches including Ministerio Publico, Tribunal de Contas, and various other
state organs.

 Subcomponent 1.3. Create a functional state RPPS cadastre. This subcomponent
would integrate the various branches‘ pension systems in each state, creating a unified
pension system to facilitate state management and cross-referencing with other data
bases.

Component 2. Upgrade/Implement the Integrated Pension Information System (SIPREV)

12.     This component would support the upgrade of SIPREV and its modules to make
them more efficient management tools, the installation of the systems and the provision
of the necessary technical assistance and training to assure their use, thereby helping the
states to satisfy an imminent decree requiring ―SIDARP‖, a unified and integrated
personnel data base.

 Subcomponent 2.1. Refine and implement SIPREV and Modules. This subcomponent
would support the installation of SIPREV and its modules in states—including a payroll
module that would be developed under this subcomponent--and provide requisite training.

 Subcomponent 2.2. Integrate SIPREV with other extant data bases. This
subcomponent would support the development of upgrades to the system and its
implementation to permit state pension registers inputted into SIPREV to be periodically
crossed with a variety of national registers, the most important being the SISOBI (obits)
system, in order to provide missing information and identify fraudulent or incorrect
payments.

 Subcomponent 2.3. Transform SIPREV into a management tool. This subcomponent
would support the development of new software to transform SIPREV into a much more




5
 Numbering format was taken from Annex IV in the PAD (the format differs from the one in Section II
―Project Description‖, and it is being used for easy reference).



                                                  5
user-friendly pension management tool and attractive system for sub-national
governments.

Component 3. Implement the Unified Administration Model

13.    This component would develop, disseminate and debate appropriate Unified
Pension Administrator (UPA) models (a Gestor Único to be established in each
subnational entity with RPPS to manage all public pensions), and provide an IT package
to ensure the new agencies are suitably prepared to run SIPREV and the modules in order
for them to comply with the legislative requirement to merge systems6.

 Subcomponent 3.1. Prepare a Unified Pension Administrator Model. This
subcomponent would finance studies followed by publications and workshops to assist
state efforts to comply with the new law that requires establishing a UPA.

 Subcomponent 3.2. Strengthen IT capacity. This subcomponent would finance a basic
package of hardware and software for each participating state.

Component 4. Strengthen State Institutions through Training and Dissemination.

14.     This component would support an extensive program of workshops and training
for states to understand and comply with new legal and technical requirements associated
with pension administration merger under a UPA.

 Subcomponent 4.1. Training states’ pension managers and technical staff. This
subcomponent would provide training to acquaint state officials with (i) the legislative
requirements for the UPA, cadastre and data base merger and upgrade, and (ii) the role of
MPS in assisting states.

 Subcomponent 4.2. Dissemination Work Shops. This subcomponent would support
the organization of stakeholder workshops in each participating state to disseminate
pension reform and PARSEP II information and strengthen the reform constituency.

 Subcomponent 4.3. Training states’ Legislative, Judicial and other branches
(including auditors’ training). This subcomponent would support the organization of a
pension reform workshop for Legislative and Judicial branches.

Component 5. Strengthen the Ministry’s Secretariat of Social Security Policy (SPS).

15.     This component would support interventions to strengthen SPS (federal agency
responsible for RPPS systems) and states‘ pension management, including studies and
other activities as described in the subcomponents below.


6
 Law 10.887 effectively ended the autonomy of autonomous sub-national pension agencies which had
denied executive branches access to their systems‘ data bases. Significant managerial and financial benefits
are expected from unified management, cadastre upgrade and integration


                                                     6
 Subcomponent 5.1. Study of states’ disability health insurance management needs.
This subcomponent would support the preparation a study of disability insurance
management and its dissemination.

 Subcomponent 5.2. Strengthening of the National Council of RPPS Directors
(CONAPREV). This subcomponent would fund regular workshops.

 Subcomponent 5.3. Actuarial analyses of states’ pension systems. This subcomponent
would fund the preparation by each state of an actuarial analysis once cadastres were
upgraded.

 Subcomponent 5.4. Preparation of states’ health and security legislation linked to
RPPS. This subcomponent would fund study of health security.

 Subcomponent 5.5. Project Implementation Unit. This subcomponent would provide
funding for consultants required to carry out certain tasks managed by the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) and for MPS pension publications.

                      Table 2. Original Project Cost by Component

                                                          Local        Bank         Total
                  Components
                                                        (US$ m.)     (US$ m.)     (US$ m.)
1. Upgrade Cadastre and Information                      1,433,700    3,358,300    4,792,000
Technology
2. Upgrade/Implement the Integrated Pension               334,700      759,700     1,094,400
Information System (SIPREV)
3. Implement the Unified Administration                   347,100      545,400      892,500
Model
4. Strengthen State institutions through                  599,500            0      599,500
training and dissemination
5. Strengthen the Ministry‘s Secretary of               2,080,514      299,600     2,380,114
Social Protection (SPS)
Unallocated                                               204,486       37,000       241,486
Total Financing Required                                5,000,000    5,000,000    10,000,000
Source: PARSEP II Project Appraisal Document, Annex 5

1.6 Revised Components

16.     Project components 2 and 3 were dropped and activities under component 4 and 5
were reduced. These changes resulted in the elimination of the development of a new
payroll module, the development of a unified database of state pension systems, a study
of disability insurance and health and security legislation of the states (as well as
consultation and dissemination related to this study), the actuarial analyses of state
pension systems, and the development of a prototype Unified Pension Administrator
(UPA) and related studies. The original training activities were substituted with training


                                                7
activities on pension system structure and management, as well as seminars on public
service pension policy.

17.    Changes in components and expected outcomes are reflected in table 3.

Table 3. Revised Components and Outcomes

Original
               Original Intermediate Outcomes            Revised Intermediate Outcomes
Components
                  Conclude cadastre upgrade for            Identification of significant
                   executive, legislative and judicial       cost      reduction    potential
                   powers (20 states)                        through completed cadastre
                                                             upgrades        and      system
                                                             integration for       executive,
                                                             legislative and judicial powers
                                                             (17 states)
1. Upgrade
Cadastre and      Identify aggregate annual savings        Dropped      (although     not
Information        (US$150 million)                          specified in the Restructuring
Technology                                                   Paper)

                                                            Provision of IT hardware to
                                                             enable MPS and states to
                                                             implement      PARSEP       II
                                                             cadastre systems upgrades and
                                                             implementation support (17
                                                             states)
                  Install and operationalize SIPREV
                   and modules (20 states)
2. Upgrade/
                  Reduce aggregate annual benefits
Implement the
                   payments through HR data base
Integrated
                   upgrades and systematic cross
Pension                                                      Dropped component
                   referencing with the obits and
Information
                   other systems (savings included in
System
                   (i) above) (20 states)
(SIPREV)
                  Develop and install a payroll
                   module
                                                         Dropped component.
                  Provide IT hardware and requisite      Redefined in component 1
                   technical assistance to allow
                   states to use SIPREV and its
                   modules (20 states)
3. Implement
the Unified
                  Complete, disseminate and debate         Dropped
Admin. Model
                   study of normative UAM
                   organizational models




                                               8
4. Strengthen                                              Outcomes were combined for
State                                                      components 4 and 5, as follows:
institutions
through             Support state sponsored                  Dropped
training and         stakeholder pension workshops
dissemination        (20 states)
                    Participation MPS programmed             Participation in programmed
                     training venues (20 states)               training venues (17 states)

                    Complete, disseminate and debate         Dropped
                     two studies: (i) states‘ disability
5. Strengthen
                     insurance system, and (ii) link
the Ministry‘s
                     between health security and RPPS
Secretary of
                     systems
Social
                    Support consolidation of                 Support    consolidation  of
Protection
                     CONAPREV (national council of             CONAPREV (national council
(SPS)
                     RPPS officials) (10 workshops)            of   RPPS      officials) (8
                                                               workshops)

                    Complete combined actuarial and          Dropped
                     financial analyses (20 states)
Sources: PARSEP II PAD (Report No: 34616-BR) and Restructuring Paper (Report no 61672 v.1)

1.7 Other significant changes

Changes in the Scope of Activities

18.     The project scope was reduced at second project restructuring in May 20117, as
described above (section 1.6). These changes responded to two main reasons: variations
in the exchange rate compared to appraisal and increases in the costs of the cadastre
upgrade. The costs per public official record updated went from approximately R$22 in
October 20078 to R$47 as stated in the signed contracts with the firms which carried out
the exercise in May, 2010. In addition, the Real appreciated from R$2.14 per US Dollar
in December 2006 to R$1.74 per US Dollar in May 2010, negatively affecting the
purchasing power of loan resources allocated to the task. Second, the government
changed strategy with respect to the implementation of a UPA model and the
development of SIPREV under the responsibility of the SPS. Moreover, actual
participation of state governments in the project was less than expected. From an
expected number of 24 states at appraisal, at time of restructuring in May 2011 only 17
had agreed to participate and only 15 actually completed cadastre upgrades by the time
the project closed in December 2011.




7
  Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Second State Pension Reform Technical
Assistance Loan – Report no 61672 v.1
8
  Cost of the cadastre upgrade exercise under BR PREVMUN (P074777) provides a reference for the cost
per public official at project start-up (Oficio n° 31/UCP/SE/MPS, October 11, 2007).


                                                 9
Change in the Institutional Arrangements

19.    For disbursement purposes, the project had been restructured in January 20119 to
recognize the Minister of Social Security as the Borrower‘s Representative.

Extension of Closing Date

20.      At the request of the government, the project closing date was extended from the
original date of June 30, 2011 to December 31, 2011. The extension was intended to
ensure that key contracts under execution were finalized in order to be able to complete
activities that were critical to the achievement of the PDO.

Reallocation of Loan Proceeds

21.    As a result of the dropped components and the reduction in activities described
above (section 1.6), the Loan proceeds were reallocated in May 2011. This reallocation
was approved by the Country Director under a Level II Restructuring.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

22.     The quality at entry is moderately unsatisfactory. The project was a continuation
of a broad initiative for pension reform in Brazil (described in section 1.1). It had been
built on a preceding successful operation with similar objectives and components, but
expanding its coverage to include other branches of states in addition to the executive
(following the model of the Municipal Pension TAL – PREVMUN). Lessons learned
from PARSEP I were identified in PARSEP II Project Document (PAD) and reflected in
the project design 10 . The project was to be implemented by the Ministry of Social
Security (MPS in Portuguese) through the SPS11, which had been created with PARSEP I
support and had gained sufficient experience during PARSEP I and PREVMUN.

23.     Project objectives were consistent with those of the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for 2003-2007, which called for a more progressive and efficient pension system.
Objectives were also aligned with the government priorities. As described in section 1.1,
between 1999 and 2003 the Government had implemented several rounds of significant
fiscal and pension reforms to address the concern of the pension system‘s fiscal



9
    Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Loan No. 7428-BR – Report no 59146 v.1
10
     PARSEP II Project Appraisal Document, Report No: 34616-BR, page 12.
11
   The Project Executing Unit (PEU) was in the SPS and was responsible for the technical execution of
PARSEPII. The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), which managed all projects sponsored by International
financial institutions and responded on fiduciary oversight matters to the MPS Executive Secretary, was the
primary responsible for project implementation.


                                                    10
sustainability. The Constitutional Amendment No. 20 of 1998 required sub-national
governments to establish actuarial and financial standards and requirements for pension
funds based upon accurate cadastres, regular reporting and transparency.

24.     The PAD indicated that the project met the regional criteria for readiness for
implementation. However, there were delays in signing the Loan and declaring
effectiveness - the project was approved on February 13, 2007 and signed on July 17,
2008; it was declared effective only in October 7, 2008 (extended from the effectiveness
deadline of August 13, 2008). The main reasons for these delays were related to changes
in authorities of the MPS during this period. 12

25.     Critical risks were identified in the PAD. In particular, the government decision to
abandon the unification of legislative and judiciary branches‘ pension systems under an
executive branch UPA was anticipated in the Project Document. As foreseen, this did not
affect the implementation of the cadastre upgrade and SIPREV.

26.     However, several shortcomings of the project design significantly affected
implementation. First, the initial strategy was overly optimistic in terms of the
implementation arrangements and expected participation from all targeted states. The
project was implemented by the federal government and participation of states was
voluntary. MPS was responsible for buy-in from states branches of government. 13 The
target was to reach at least 20 states, however the project document did not reflect how
many states had agreed to participate at the time of appraisal. Moreover, it did not
consider the additional challenges of working with different and independent branches
within each of the states. During implementation, the project was seriously affected by
the lack of commitment from states (some did not agree to participate, and others desisted
from participating after having committed to implement the cadastre upgrade).
Overestimation of potential interest from states was also a weakness in PARSEP I design
(as described in the completion report for the project14). Under the new loan, incentives
for states participation were expected to respond to ―the passage of new laws that
required states and municipalities to implement what had been done on a voluntary basis
under PARSEP I‖.15

27.    A second weakness of the project design was related to the estimation of costs for
cadastre upgrade for the proposed scope. PARSEP II‘s loan amount, established at a


12
   Between March 2007 and June 2008 there were three Ministers of Social Security: Luiz Marinho (in
office from March 29, 2007 to June 3, 2008); Carlos Eduardo Gabas (from June 3, 2008 to June 11, 2008);
and José Barroso Pimentel (from June 2008 until March 30, 2010).
13
   States participation and obligations, as well as responsibilities of the federal government, were specified
and regulated under Participation Agreements (Termo de Adesao).
14
   Implementation Completion Report for PARSEP I, page 5. Report no. 35840-BR
15
   PARSEP II Project Appraisal Document, page 13. Report no. 34616-BR. Law 10.887 approved in 2004
required that all RPPS pension management (legislative, judicial and related pension agencies) be
centralized under one state agency. A subsequent decree detailed integrated data base requirements which
conformed closely to the SIPREV software (being offered free of charge by the Ministry to all subnational
governments).


                                                     11
similar size as the previous loan, was expected to adequately cover replication and
upscale of PARSEP I initiatives. While PARSEP I had covered the executive branches of
17 states with a total cost of US$3,896,725, PARSEP II was allocating US$4.8 million to
spend in the upgrading of cadastres in at least 20 states -- including the executive
branches that had not completed the cadastre upgrade under PARSEP I, and the other
branches of state governments (judiciary and legislative branches, including Ministerio
Público, Tribunal de Contas or State Comptroller‘s General Offices, public enterprises,
foundations and various other state organs).16 However, from the information provided in
the PAD, it is not clear how many public officials or number of branches PARSEP II was
expected to cover. This makes it difficult to assess if estimation of costs was accurate at
project design. Having said that, and as will be described below, there was a lack of
anticipation of potential changes in the real-dollar exchange rate and price of the cadastre
upgrade exercise, which significantly affected project implementation and the
achievement of project results in terms of number of states and branches covered (see
section 3.2).

28.    Finally, project design overestimated the capacity of the MPS to implement
procurement processes. After experiencing delays in the implementation of PARSEP I
due to the use of UNDP as an intermediate agency for administrative support, the
Government and the Bank agreed that the MPS would manage the project procurement
using in-house resources. However, as described in the following section, the project
experienced significant delays due to procurement issues related to the most important
process (recadastramento).

2.2 Implementation

29.     The implementation of the project was moderately satisfactory. Project
implementation started slow. After delays in signing and effectiveness, there were also
delays related to buying-in from states to participate. As mentioned in the previous
section, one of the main challenges of the project implementation arrangements was
related to the fact that this was a federal program in which the federal level was required
to coordinate with different actors at the state level (sometimes over four of them in a
single state, and was expected to cover 20 states). Only once the federal government had
sufficient understanding of the number of states and branches participating in the
program, the SPS could start the bidding process for the cadastre upgrade, the first
activity of the project. Despite SPS did advance with the preparation of the bidding
documents while getting the agreements with States signed, only by March 2009 the MPS
received confirmation of intended participation from legislative and judicial branches and
independent bodies of 24 states.17

30.    One major setback in project implementation was the declaration of two bidding
processes as invalid for Bank financing in 2009 – an international competitive bidding
(ICB) for the cadastre upgrade and a national competitive bidding (NCB) to support


16
     See PARSEP II Project Appraisal Document, pages 67-69. Report no. 34616-BR.
17
     As indicated in the project‘s Implementation Status Report (June 2009)


                                                   12
CONAPREV. After receiving the Bank no objection to the bidding documents, the
government introduced changes to include costs estimates without securing the Bank‘s
agreement with the changes. Giving that these procurement processes represented over 90
percent of Bank financing and that, at that time, the project had not yet disbursed,
procurement issues not only negatively affected the execution of the project but also
posed a risk to its continuity (triggering internal Bank discussions on a possible
cancelation of the loan).

31.    As a result of Bank supervision efforts, in particular of the procurement team‘s
proactive actions, the ICB for cadastre upgrade was placed back on track. In agreement
with the Bank, the government issued a corrigendum, avoiding cancelling the
procurement process and reprogramming it for the following fiscal year. On May 2010,
three contracts were signed for the different Brazilian regions. The total amount of the
contacts was US$7.6 million, for an estimated amount of 420,000 public servants to be
re-cadastred.

32.    The higher costs of the cadastre upgrade (compared to the total US$4.8 million
estimated at appraisal) also affected implementation and the amount of states and
branches that the project was able to cover, as will be described in section 3.2. Costs
increases were due to the appreciation of the Brazilian Real relative to the US Dollar
(R$2.14 in Dec. 2006 to R$1.74 in May 2010) and the increase in costs of implementing
the cadastre exercise.

33.     As mentioned earlier, in May 2011 the project was restructured to reduce project
scope to limit the activities to those that would be funded under the loan, and to extend
the closing date by six months to December 31, 2011 in order to allow for completion of
the activities related to the cadastre upgrade and critical to the achievement of the PDO.
Although the Government‘s request was received in August 2009, the Bank team
postponed processing the restructuring until they had more clarity on the continuation of
the loan. At the time of restructuring, disbursements had dramatically increased
representing 62% of the loan, and withdrawal applications for another 13% of the loan
were ready to be processed following approval of the restructuring. Given the lengthy
delays in project effectiveness, no mid-term review was conducted.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

34.      The M&E framework design and implementation was moderately unsatisfactory.
The original results framework presented in Annex 2 contained performance indicators
for the PDO and each individual component. However, the PDO and the PDO indicators
as formulated were the same and were too high level and beyond what the project
activities could effectively deliver as outcomes. The proposed activities and outputs were
not sufficient to achieve the higher development goal of enhancing fiscal stability and
sustainable economic growth through improved pension management. Reduction in
unwarranted pension claims and improved financial management and sustainability not
only depended on the pension cadastre upgrade but mostly on the implementation by
states of the corrective measures to materialize the potential savings identified.
Thankfully, the target values for the PDO indicators were calibrated at project


                                           13
restructuring to establish a link with project activities thus facilitating a realistic
assessment of project outcomes over time.

35.     PDO and intermediate results indicators, particularly with respect to target values,
were closely monitored by the Bank supervision team and reported in ISRs. However, the
quality and reliability of information concerning the impacts of the cadastre upgrade at
the state level was low. Reporting on pension savings was partial (as had happened in
PARSEP I and PREVMUN).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

36.    The PCU‘s relatively weak procurement capacity was a key issue during project
implementation. Due to the delays experienced during the implementation of PARSEP I,
the Government had ceased using UNDP for procurement management to manage
procurement in-house, which was a big step towards increasing local capacity. However,
the PCU‘s performance on procurement triggered significant challenges to project
implementation and to its successful completion, as described above. One of the main
bidding processes (involving 90 percent of the loan) was almost declared invalid for
Bank financing and posed a significant risk to the viability of the project.

37.     Project financial management was considered to be moderately satisfactory
throughout project implementation. Quarterly financial monitoring reports were
submitted on time and were acceptable to the Bank. Some minor errors and
inconsistencies in the IFRs were found during supervision. They were properly addressed
by the client, and did not impact the outcome and controls of the project. Annual audit
reports for the project were submitted accordingly, with an unqualified (clean) opinion by
the External Audit Office (Controladoria Geral da União, CGU) on the project's
financial statements.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

38.     The Government has informally expressed its interest in a third phase of the
project, which would be directed to complete the cadastre upgrade in the executive
branches of the states not covered by PARSEP II. However, the Bank decided against a
follow up operation for four main reasons. First, the Bank team considered that, after
executing three investment loans that supported the improvement of pension management
at the subnational level mainly through cadastre upgrades (PARSEP I, PREVMUN and
PARSEP II), the government had developed the know-how to continue this exercise on
its own. Second, the Bank believed that the Federal Government of Brazil had the
necessary resources to carry out a program of the size of this operation without the need
of Bank financing. Third, PARSEP I and PREVMUN had not shown substantial results
in terms of savings, in particular because all the cadastre exercises identified potential
savings, leaving it up to the states to implement the corrective measures to actually
materialize those savings. Finally, at the time a third operation was being considered
there was no evidence that states would be interested in participating, given some of them
had backed from their commitments to participate in PARSEP II for political reasons.



                                            14
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

39.      At the time of project preparation, social security reform had been identified in
the CPS with Brazil as a critical Federal and subnational macroeconomic issue.
Deepening pension reforms to reduce pension expenditures continues to be a key issue in
Brazil and a strategic objective of the Bank with the country. According to the CPS
Progress Report for the period FY2008-2011 approved on March 11, 2010 18 , the
government has been unable to reduce current expenditures (including those in social
security) and to increase the share of public investment. The CPS FY12-15 suggests that,
although the pension reforms of 1999 and 2003 more than halved projected increases in
pension costs, these are still expected to more than double to 22.4% of GDP by 205019.
Also, the issue of pension reform has gained political momentum, as one of the key
topics in the President Rousseff agenda for reform20. This increases the relevance of this
project as it helped identify potential savings in pension expenditures. However, it is still
critical that the corrective measures are implemented, which falls outside the scope of this
project.

     Figure 1. President Rousseff disarming the pension time bomb - article on the Brazilian
                        pension reform (The Economist, March 24, 2012)




          ―Tick, tock. The Senate debates a small measure to help disarm an economic time bomb‖.
                                      The Economist, March 24, 2012




18
   Report no. 53356-BR
19
   Country Partnership Strategy for Brazil FY2012-2015, September 2011.Report No. 63731-BR
20
   Source: Article ―Tick, tock. The Senate debates a small measure to help disarm an economic time bomb‖.
The Economist, March 24, 2012. http://www.economist.com/node/21551093


                                                   15
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

40.     The project partially achieved its project development objective, as measured
against the revised end-of-project target value for the PDO indicator and in terms of the
intermediate outcome indicators and their target values, which are detailed in Annex 2.21
The project achieved the target value for the PDO indicator: a cadastre upgrade was
implemented in different branches in 15 states (out of the revised target of 17 following
the restructuring and compared to original 20 in the PAD), involving 43 institutions or
branches of state government and 325,884 public servants (see table 5 below).

41.     Furthermore, activities financed by PARSEP II helped to identify significant
potential savings from the cleaning of the pension cadastres and the identification and
removal or freezing of fraudulent and erroneous payments. Initial reports from four states,
which together account for 89% of the public servants covered in the cadastre upgrades
financed by PARSEP II, account for annual potential savings of US$ 26.2 million. These
savings include: R$27.4 million (equivalent to US$15.1 million) for the state of the
Federal District of Brasilia; R$16.9 million (equivalent to US$9.4 million) for the state of
Paraíba; R$2.6 million (equivalent to US$1.4 million) for the state of Rio Grande do Sul;
and R$0.66 million (equivalent to US$0.4 million) for the state of Sergipe. These
potential savings represent approximately 0.4% of these states‘ payroll.22 With respect to
the realization of actual savings, these are beyond the control of the project‘s activities, as
they depend on the political will of states‘ governments and on judicial decisions to
implement the necessary corrective measures.

42.    One positive demonstration effect has been observed in the state of Brasilia,
where, based on the findings of the cadastre upgrade for the executive and legislative
branches and the Tribunal de Contas, the state government decided to include in the
exercise an additional 31,725public officials belonging to the state‘s firemen and police
departments, not foreseen originally in the agreement between MPS and the government
of Brasilia and financed with government resources.

43.      Other institutions, primarily those with a low number of public servants, reported
no savings after the exercise. Several other states had not reported the outcomes from the
exercise by the completion of this report. Despite these results or lack of information, all
institutions which carried out a cadastre upgrade benefited from improving their records
and digitizing them. Also, the completion of the recadastramento exercise, which
includes publicity and requires all public servants and retirees to present their records,
contributes to sending a clear signal to all stakeholders that the state is active in the fight
against corruption.




21
    For purposes of attributing the ratings for PDO achievement before and after restructuring, the
disbursements before restructuring of May 2011 stood at 33% of the loan with the remaining 66% were
disbursed after the restructuring. At restructuring ratings went from MU to MS until the end of the project.
22
   In the case of Rio Grande do Sul, the cadastre upgrade covered only retirees. Thus, the payroll used for
this calculation is the one for that particular group.


                                                    16
Table 5. Potential Savings form Cadastre Upgrade – Institutions with agreements
with MPS to carry out the Cadastre Upgrade
                                                           % of         Annual
                                           No. of
                                                        Total No       Potential
                                           Public
                                                        of public       Savings
     State                Branch          Servants
                                                        Servants       Identified
                                          Records
                                                        Records (in US$ million
                                          Updated
                                                        Updated       equivalent)
Northeastern Region
                        Legislative          497          0.15%       No savings
                     Ministerio Público     1,126         0.35%
 1      Bahia
                    Tribunal de Contas       593          0.18%       Not reported
                         Judiciary         10,786         3.31%
                        Legislative         1,691         0.52%       Not reported
                     Ministerio Público      800          0.25%       No savings
 2      Ceará       Tribunal de Contas       240          0.07%       Not reported
                    Tribunal de Contas
                                             340          0.10%       No savings
                        Municipal
                        Legislative          896          0.27%
                         Executive         77,783        23.87%
 3     Paraíba                                                             9.4
                    Tribunal de Contas       447          0.14%
                         Judiciary          3,549         1.09%
                        Legislative       Excluded
                     Ministerio Público   Excluded
 4 Pernambuco                                                         Not reported
                    Tribunal de Contas    Excluded
                         Judiciary          6,294         1.93%
     Rio Grande     Tribunal de Contas    Excluded
 5                                                                  Not carried out
      do Norte           Judiciary        Excluded
                        Legislative          514          0.16%
                     Ministerio Público      411          0.13%
 6    Sergipe                                                              0.4
                    Tribunal de Contas       475          0.15%
                         Judiciary          2,729         0.84%
North and West Central Region
                        Legislative          417          0.13%
 7      Acre                                                          Not reported
                     Ministerio Público      146          0.04%
                        Legislative          139          0.04%
 8     Amapá         Ministerio Público      207          0.06%       Not reported
                         Judiciary           914          0.28%
                        Legislative          543          0.17%
 9   Amazonas        Ministerio Público      155          0.05%       Not reported
                    Tribunal de Contas       559          0.17%
                        Legislative          887          0.27%
                         Executive        125,542        38.52%           15.1
10    Brasilia
                    Police and Firemen     30,356         9.31%
                    Tribunal de Contas    Excluded                  Not carried out


                                        17
11       Goiás    Tribunal de Contas                     698            0.21%         Not reported
                      Legislative                        743            0.23%
       Mato
                  Ministerio Público                     604            0.19%
12 Grosso do                                                                          Not reported
                  Tribunal de Contas                     542            0.17%
        Sul
                       Judiciary                        3,715           1.14%
                  Ministerio Público                     184            0.06%
13    Roraima                                                                         Not reported
                       Judiciary                         616            0.19%
                      Legislative                        309            0.09%
14 Tocantins      Ministerio Público                     529            0.16%         Not reported
                  Tribunal de Contas                     406            0.12%
South and Southeast Region
                      Legislative                        332            0.10%
      Espirito
15                Ministerio Público                     575            0.18%         Not reported
       Santo
                  Tribunal de Contas                     392            0.12%
                      Legislative                        528            0.16%
    Rio Grande
16                    Executive                         46,675         14.32%               1.4
       do Sul
                  Ministerio Público                   Excluded
                      Legislative                      Excluded
17 São Paulo      Ministerio Público                   Excluded                      Not carried out
                  Tribunal de Contas                   Excluded
       Santa
18                Ministerio Público                   Excluded                      Not carried out
      Catarina
       Minas
19                Ministerio Público                   Excluded                      Not carried out
       Gerais
TOTAL                                                  325,884          100%               26.2
TOTAL STATE LEVEL PUBLIC
                                                     4,873,000          6.7%                n/a
SERVANTS IN BRAZIL
Source: MPS, Ministerio de Planejamento and Author

44.     Moreover, there were significant efforts to promote the program visibility among
states and stakeholders and to build constituencies for pension reform. Apart from the 8
workshops carried out to support the consolidation of CONAPREV, results from the
cadastre upgrade exercises and potential savings were disseminated in local newspapers,
as can be seen in Figure 2, raising awareness about the importance of the cadastre
upgrade and potential savings that can be generated if and when corrective measures are
taken.23




23
  The article ―Servidores fantasmas fica sem salário‖, (―Ghost workers removed from their salary‖)
published in the front page of the Brasilia State‘s newspaper ―Correio Braziliense‖ in October 18, 2011,
provided detailed information on the initial findings regarding amounts of suspended benefits after the
cadastre upgrade exercise.


                                                  18
     Figure 2. Dissemination of Cadastre Upgrade Results in Brasilia – Newspaper
                          Correio Braziliense (October 2011)




     In the cover: ―Ghost workers had a cost of R$37 million to GDF (Federal District Government)‖ and
                             article: ―Ghost workers removed from their salary‖

45.    However, as explained in sections 1.6 and 1.7, some of the original project
components and activities were eliminated or reduced. This reduced the potential impact
of the project. Activities related to the upgrade of the Integrated Pension Information
System (SIPREV) were eliminated from the loan due to a policy change assigning
responsibility for the Information Technology systems in support of pensions from the
SPS to DATAPREV (the technology and information company of the Brazilian Social
Security System). Notwithstanding, the federal government has been able to successfully
implement the SIPREV-related activities outside of PARSEP II and is now expecting to
generate high potential savings at federal, states and municipal level through the cross-
checking of payroll and pension benefits24. According to official estimates, the savings
could reach around R$7 billion per year from its implementation in 2013. In addition, at
the time of the preparation of this report, it was announced that President Rousseff would
sign a decree to make compulsory for all states‘ branches to submit to MPS the
information on active workers and pensioners to be aggregated in the National Cadastre
of Social Information of RPPS (Cadastro Nacional de Informações Sociais dos Regimes
Próprios de Previdência Social – CNIS-RPPS). 25 Moreover, the Federal Government is
also taking measures to cut expenditures on the civil servants‘ pension system. On
February 29, 2012 the lower house of Congress approved a reform that would cap the


24
   The SIPREV/Management of RPPS is a database loaded and updated by each state. It allows states‘
branches to follow public servants along their pension cycle, carry out censuses of cadastre data, validate
data prior sending it to the National Cadastre of Social Information of RPPS (CNIS/RPPS), and cross data
from different state institutions. Most state institutions are currently in the process of loading local
databases, which will then feed the CNIS/RPPS. SIPREV/Management of RPPS currently accounts for
1898 users.
25
   Source:Article ―Novo sistema pode gerar economia de R$ 7 bi por ano‖ Valor Economico, March 13,
2012. http://www2.valoronline.com.br/brasil/2567356/novo-sistema-pode-gerar-economia-de-r-7-bi-por-
ano/


                                                    19
defined-benefit plans of future federal government employees at R$3,916 (around
US$2,150) a month, the same level as private sector workers. 26 These actions are
expected to have a strong demonstration impact at the States level.

46.     The implementation of a Unified Administration Model was also eliminated due
to evidence that the Federal Government no longer intended to mandate a UPA to
rationalize pension management. Although it did not compromise achievement of the
PDO indicator target value, this decision took away one of the incentives for states to
implement the cadastre upgrade, increasing the difficulties to get states to participate.

3.3 Efficiency

47.     The project has offered potential financial gains to the participating states. Early
results from two participating states showed annual potential savings for more than
US$26.2 million, as described in table 5 above. Assuming the concerned state agencies
implement the corrective measures, annual savings will far exceed the initial one-time
investment of US$12 million, including US$5million from the Bank.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

48.     The project partially achieved its PDO, as discussed above. Although the end-of-
project target value for the PDO level indicator was revised to reduce the number of
states with cadastre upgrade from 20 to 17, this exercise was only completed for 15 states
due to factors outside the control of the Federal Government.

49.     Moreover, despite the Project achieving potential savings of US$26.2 million
(according to information provided by four states: Brasilia, Paraíba, Rio Grande do Sul
and Sergipe) and accounting for an estimated Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of 195% (see
Annex 4), these figures are subject to States implementing the corrective measures. These
potential savings are also way below the US$ 150 million in savings estimated during
project preparation (although this target was dropped during restructuring).

50.     Another main shortcoming of PARSEP II was the impossibility to carry out all
originally planned activities due to higher costs of cadastre upgrade and unforeseen
changes in the exchange rate, and to political decisions to implement a Unified
Administration Model for pensions.

51.     Based on the above, the overall outcome rating is considered to be moderately
unsatisfactory.




26
  Source: Article ―Tick, tock. The Senate debates a small measure to help disarm an economic time bomb‖.
The Economist, March 24, 2012. http://www.economist.com/node/21551093


                                                  20
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

52.      There is no direct poverty, gender or social impact on the population directly
attributable to the project. However, the improvement on state pension management has
indirect impacts on poverty and social conditions both at the central and subnational level,
first through the effect of fiscal stabilization and improved growth conditions, and second
through allowing that savings generated from the cadastre upgrade be channeled into
other development activities.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

53.      PARSEP II clearly contributed to institutional strengthening both at the federal
and subnational level. MPS and States strengthened their capacity in pension
management through the completion of cadastre upgrades. In particular, PARSEP II
(together with PARSEP I and PREVMUN) contributed to strengthening MPS as the
central entity responsible for providing technical assistance to subnational governments
on the upgrade of pension management. Moreover, PARSEP II has been effective in
strengthening technical capacity of the states‘ pension management units, and has
facilitated the accurate collection of critical information required by law.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

54.    The inclusion of additional 31,725 public servants from the police and firemen
departments in the cadastre upgrade of the state of Brasilia, fully financed by
Government resources, is a notable unintended outcome of PARSEP II, not only in terms
of the higher potential savings but also as evidence of the increased constituencies
supporting this reform.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

55.    No beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshops were conducted specifically for
purposes of reviewing project performance.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

56.     The sustainability of project achievements and thus to the Development Outcomes
is hard to assess. On the one hand, after implementing three projects directed to improve
pension management, the government (both at the federal and state level) has developed
the capacity to undertake similar exercises in the future and expand the results to the
remaining states. Also, the cadastre upgrades, the main output of this loan, have been
carried out in different branches of government in several states, and updated databases
for these institutions are now completed. On the other hand, while the project helped
identify significant potential savings from the cadastre upgrade exercise, it is up to the
states to implement the corrective measures to realize those savings. Experience from this


                                            21
series of projects suggests that the commitment of subnational governments to implement
corrective measures following cadastre upgrade is beyond the control of the Federal
Government or a World Bank project, and many times may even involve a decision by a
subnational judiciary body. Notwithstanding, the Bank could build on the cadastre
upgrade experience of PARSEP II in its various operations in Brazilian states to make the
case for taking advantage of the potential savings identified by this project (see section on
lessons learned).

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

57.     PARSEP II was intended to expand the positive results in pension management
achieved by previous successful experiences, and was prepared taking into account
lessons learned from preceding projects. It was consistent with the federal government‘s
objectives and the Bank strategy with Brazil. However, several shortcomings in project
design posed challenges to its implementation and the achievement of results. In
particular, the underestimation of costs for implementing cadastre upgrade in the
proposed states, the failure to identify the challenges involved in coordinating with
several subnational branches, and the overestimation of the MPS capacity to carry out
complex procurement processes caused significant risks to the successful completion of
the project. Likewise, given the delays alone in declaring the loan effective (20 months
from Board approval) suggests significant under-estimation of the project‘s readiness to
implement. Finally, estimated savings were too optimistic and did not assess the
difficulty of implementing the corrective measures needed once the issues had been
identified through the cadastre upgrade.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

58.     The dialogue with the PCU was not fluid at all times. Some of the problems
experienced during project start-up could have been avoided had the Bank supervision
team done extra efforts to improve communication and coordination with the client.
Moreover, the Bank team postponed processing the restructuring of the project for more
than 9 months (from the reception of the Government‘s request), failing to communicate
to the Government the reasons for the delay (described in section 2.2).

59.     On the other hand, the Bank flagged potential issues and took action to solve them
proactively through the implementation of the loan. For example, during the crisis with
the ICB for the cadastre upgrade, the Bank supervision and procurement teams provided
intensive support and were exceptionally proactive and flexible to find a solution that
helped place the procurement process back on track. However, overall, Bank supervision
is considered Moderately Unsatisfactory




                                             22
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

60.     Based on the Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry, and in the quality of
Bank supervision, the overall Bank performance is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.
This ICR recognizes the Bank supervision team efforts to solve the procurement issues
during implementation and to get the project back on track. Project‘s outcomes were
partially achieved (vis-à-vis target values) and all prioritized activities were undertaken
satisfactorily. However, as stated previously in this report, the Bank failed to identify
some challenges that led to delays in project start-up and execution and even posed risks
to the completion of the project. Moreover, communication between the Bank
supervision team and the client was not good at all times, affecting project
implementation.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

61.     Project implementation suffered from delays in getting confirmation from states
of intended participation and reversals once they had communicated their intention to
participate. In addition, while the lack of a Unified Administration Model for pensions
did not affect project outcomes, the decision of the government to not implement the
UPA took away one of the incentives for states to implement the cadastre upgrade,
increasing the difficulties to get states to participate in the project. Therefore, government
performance is deemed moderately satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

62.     On one hand, the incident with the ICB for the cadastre upgrade showed the low
capacity of the Client to apply the Bank's rules. Moreover, the PCU refused to follow
some of the recommendations provided by the Bank, leading to a crisis that posed a risk
to the continuity of the project. On the other hand, later on the PCU did a great job in
disseminating some of the project results and attracting demand for expanding the
coverage of the upgrade of the pension cadastres. One area for improvement would be in
relation to the gathering of information on financial savings and efficiencies gained with
the implementation of cadastres upgrade.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

63.   Considering the above discussions, the overall borrower performance is rated
moderately unsatisfactory.




                                             23
6. Lessons Learned

64.      PARSEP II leaves several lessons learned that could be applied in different
operations in Brazil and elsewhere. A first lesson is that small operations can have a big
impact. Despite the relative small size of this operation (US$ 5 million), its
implementation strengthened institutional capacity in 15 states and 43 government
institutions, with annual potential savings accounting for over US$26.2 million and an
internal rate of return of 195%.

65.     More generally speaking and apart from the potential savings, the three operations
PARSEP, PREVMUN and PARSEP II, each of them for US$ 5 million, contributed to
supporting the pension management reform agenda during several years, ensuring
continuity despite political changes in the Ministry of Social Security. The strong
commitment of the current federal administration in reforming pension management and
implementing a strong anticorruption agenda shows the ex post relevance of these
operations. In the particular case of PARSEP II, the project‘s activities conveyed a clear
anti-corruption message in the participating states, in particular in Federal District of
Brasilia.

66.     Third, the cadastre upgrade methodology (explained in detail in Annex 5) could
be applied in other subnational level operations with public sector components in Brazil,
both at the state and municipal level. Carrying out a recadastramento 27 exercise,
measuring the potential savings to be achieved and implementing the corrective measures
to realize these savings would be particularly suitable for loans with performance-based
disbursements (SWAPs) or programmatic DPLs, giving subnational governments
stronger incentives to enforce the sometimes politically difficult measures that lead to
actual savings.28 The calculation of the estimated savings could follow the rate identified
by PARSEP II in those states with results reported (around 0.4% of the payroll).

67.     Fourth, it is crucial to anticipate the additional complexities of working with
different branches of government at the subnational level. In the case of PARSEP II,
based on the expected coverage of the loan according to the PAD, the Ministry of Social
Security at the federal level needed to coordinate with around 80 counterparts. However,
resources assigned to the project were similar to the previous loans (smaller in scope and
easier to coordinate). Apart from sufficient Bank financing, projects should consider
having adequate capacity at the central level for planning and coordinating with so many
independent institutions in different subnational governments in order to meet the
proposed targets. Also, considering the independency of these institutions and the
political nature of some of them, performance targets related to their participation need to
consider the possibility that some of these institutions could revise their decision.



27
  Cadastre upgrade in Portuguese
28
  The closest example of the application of a similar methodology were the payroll audits carried out in the
BR Alagoas Fiscal and Public Sector Reform DPL (P103770), which included the completion of the
corrective measures as a prior action for the second tranche.


                                                    24
68.     Finally, projects that involve relatively large and complex procurement processes
should consider additional and enhanced support from at least part-time consultants with
solid experience in Bank procurement processes and rules, in particular at the beginning.
For this project, while the change in the strategy for procurement management –from
hiring UNDP as an intermediate agency to managing procurement in-house– is
commendable, additional procurement support should have been considered at the
beginning of project implementation until capacities at the PCU have been adequately
strengthened.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

69.    The implementing agency disagrees with the project‘s overall rating, which
considers it to be highly satisfactory based on the following indicators: (i) the cadastre
upgrade exercise included 94.94% of the civil servants, retirees and pensioners initially
estimated; (ii) the project executed 98% of the funds; and (iii) the project had an internal
rate of return of 195%. Based on these indicators, the Borrower considers that the
capacity of the MPS to implement the project was also satisfactory.

70.     According to the implementing agency, the Government properly addressed the
challenge of working with different states‘ branches from the very beginning,
highlighting the signing of 24 Participation Agreements as evidence of the Government‘s
proactivity. The implementing agency identified two main elements that negatively
affected the achievement of the initial targets: (i) insufficient funds due to changes in the
exchange rates, and (ii) changes of administration in some of the branches that had signed
the agreement with MPS and desisted from participating at the time of the bidding
process.

71.    Finally, the implementing agency denied any lack of familiarity with the Bank‘s
procurement rules by the PCU, and attributed the issues related to the procurement
process for the recadastramento exercise to requests by the Court of Accounts (Tribunal
de Contas da União, TCU).


(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable.




                                             25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                              Appraisal
                                                       millions)
                                         1.4                4. 57                319%
                                         0.3                0.056                 17%
                                         0.3                0                      0%
                                         0.6                0                      0%
                                         2.1                0.076                  4%
            Total Baseline Cost          4.8                4. 71                 98%
Physical Contingencies
                                              0.2                 0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies
                                              0.00                0.00            0.00
     Total Financing Required                 5.00                4.71            96%




(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing        (USD         (USD      Appraisal
                                                          millions)    millions)
 Borrower                                              5.00         7.00         140%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                       5.00        4.71         96%
and Development




                                               26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Project Development        Original PDO Indicator                            Revised PDO Indicator
Objective (PDO)
Enhance fiscal stability   Upgrade pension management thereby                Cadastre upgrade ongoing
and sustainable economic   reducing unwarranted pension claims,              in 17 states governing
growth in the              improving financial management and                highest number possible of
Participating States       sustainability, strengthening state and federal   public servants based on
through improved pension   pension institutions, and building new reform     available resources
management                 constituencies
Strategic Objectives       Original Indicators                                Revised indicators           Project Output
(i) Reduce pension         (i.a) Identification of significant cost          (i.a) Identification of      Cadastre upgrade in 15 states
costs through cadastre     reduction potential through cadastre              significant cost reduction   due to (i) cost reasons –
upgrade to eliminate       upgrades and systems integration for              potential through cadastre   available for 19 states of the 25
unwarranted                executive, legislative and judicial powers        upgrades and systems         states which agreed to
beneficiary payments       (20 states; annual savings for $150               integration for executive,   participate, after changes in
                           million/year).                                    legislative and judicial     costs and exchange rate
                                                                             powers (17 states).          compared to appraisal, and (ii)
                                                                                                          5 states desisted from the
                                                                                                          process after agreeing to take
                                                                                                          part

                                                                             (i.b) Provision of IT        Equipment was purchased and
                                                                             hardware to enable MPS       delivered in 17 states. Contract
                                                                             and states to implement      was financed with 100%
                                                                             PARSEP II cadastre           government counterpart funds
                                                                             systems upgrades and         due to procurement rule
                                                                             implementation support(17    limitations.
                                                                             states) – moved from
                                                                             indicator (iv.a)




                                                                       27
(ii) Reduce pension       (ii.a) Identification of significant cost  (ii.a & ii.b) Dropped    Carried out by DATAPREV
costs from unwarranted    reduction potential through systems                                 outside the Project. The
benefits payments         (SIPREV) upgrades permitting systematic                             SIPREV/Management of RPPS
through systems           cross referencing with national data bases                          allows states‘ branches to
upgrade                   on work history and obits and                                       follow public servants along
                          identification of unwarranted claims (20                            their pension cycle, carry out
                          states).                                                            censuses of cadastre data,
                                                                                              validate data prior sending it to
                          (ii.b) Development and installation of (i)                          the National Cadastre of Social
                          user friendly SIPREV refinements, (ii)                              Information of RPPS
                          actuarial module and benefits module                                (CNIS/RPPS), and cross data
                          when latter is ready (iii) development of                           from different state institutions.
                          payroll module and installation (SIPREV-                            Most state institutions are
                          20 states, actuarial module-20, benefits                            currently in the process of
                          module-10, payroll module-5)                                        loading local databases, which
                                                                                              will then feed the CNIS/RPPS.
                                                                                              SIPREV/Management of RPPS
                                                                                              currently accounts for 1898
                                                                                              users.

(iii) Analyze the costs   (iii) Complete combined actuarial and         (iii) Dropped         RPPS rules now require states
and develop fiscal        financial analyses (20 states)                                      to present an annual actuarial
strategies to mitigate                                                                        report to SPS. This activity no
the fiscal burden                                                                             longer required support through
                                                                                              the Project
(iv) Assist states in     (iv.a) Provide IT hardware and requisite      (iv.a) Redefined as
implementing ‗unified     technical assistance to allow states to use   indicator (i.b)
pension administration‘   SIPREV and its modules (20 states)

                          (iv.b) Complete, disseminate and debate       (iv.b) Dropped
                          study of normative UPA organizational



                                                                   28
                            models
(v) Strengthen              (v.a) Participation MPS programmed              (v.a) Participation in   Training activities were not
institutional capacity in   training venues (20 states)                     programmed training      implemented due to lack of
the Ministry of Social                                                      venues (17 states)       resources. Activities were not
Security and states                                                                                  eliminated from the Loan
through training,           (v.b) Complete, disseminate and debate          (v.b) Dropped            Agreement due to the delays in
dissemination and           two studies: (i) states‘ disability insurance                            processing Project restructuring
workshops.                  system, and (ii) link between health                                     (from reception of Government
                            security and RPPS systems                                                request on August 2009 until
                                                                                                     Project Restructuring on May
                                                                                                     2001 - see paragraph 33)

                            (v.c) Support consolidation of                  (v.c) Support for        All 8 workshops were carried
                            CONAPREV (national council of RPPS              CONAPREV (8              out. Contract financed with
                            officials) (10 workshops)                       workshops)               100% government counterpart
                                                                                                     funds (one of them financed by
                                                                                                     a State) due to faulty
                                                                                                     procurement process in 2009.
(vi) Strengthen states‘     (vi) Support state sponsored stakeholder        (vi) Dropped
reform constituencies       pension workshops (20 states)




                                                                      29
Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
               Names                          Title                  Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Jose Augusto Carvalho         Consultant                            LCSPT
Tulio Henrique Lima Correa    Financial Management Specialist       LCSFM
Regis Thomas Cunningham       Sr. Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM
Roberto De Rezende Rocha      Senior Adviser                        FFSDR
Luiz C. Gazoni                Consultant                            LCSPT
Jose C. Janeiro               Senior Finance Officer                CTRLA
Supervision/ICR
Sinue Aliram                  Procurement Specialist                LCSPT
Cassia Coutinho Barreto       Consultant                            LCC5C
America Teresa Genta Fons     Lead Counsel                          LEGLA
Mariano Lafuente              Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.             LCSPS
May Olalia                    Senior Operations Officer             LCSPS
Marta Elena Molares-Halberg   Lead Counsel                          LEGES
Chris Parel                   Consultant                            AFTPR
Luis R. Prada Villalobos      Senior Procurement Specialist         MNAPR
Jeffrey James Rinne           Consultant                            EASHD
Rajeev Kumar Swami            Sr Financial Management Specialist    ECSO3
Fanny Weiner                  E T Consultant                        LCSPS
Daniela Felcman               E T Consultant                        LCSPS
Adrienne Elizabeth Hathaway   Junior Professional Associate         LCSPS

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                           USD Thousands (including
                                          No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                                                       16.12
  FY06                                                                       52.01
  FY07                                                                       13.63
  FY08                                                                        0.00
                              Total:                                         81.76
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                                                        2.50
  FY08                                                                       23.31
  FY09                                                                       37.00
  FY10                                                                       33.85
  FY11                                                                       43.31
  FY12                                                                       25.001
                              Total:                                        164.97
1
    Estimate



                                               30
Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis

PARSEP II‘s planned US$10 million cadastre upgrade and the subsequent removal of
irregular claims from the pension database in 20 states was initially estimated in the PAD
to identify US$150 million in annual potential savings. These estimates were based on
partial results from the earlier PARSEP program which, through August 2005, had
reported potential savings of more than US$100 million. As noted in the main text of this
ICR, during project implementation, both the scope of activities undertaken and the
number of states participating under PARSEP II were revised, and the identification of
US$150 million in annual potential savings dropped as an intermediate outcome (see
Section 1.3 and Table 3).

As of March 2012, 4 participating states (the Federal District of Brasilia, Paraíba, Rio
Grande do Sul and Sergipe, which account for 89% of the records updated) have reported
potential savings from the project totaling the equivalent of US$26.2 million (see Table 5
in the main text). While the actual cost of PARSEP II ($11.71 million) was higher than
anticipated due to price increases and the appreciation of the Brazilian Real, the available
data, though incomplete, suggest that the states could generate high returns if they
implemented the corrective measures needed to realize the potential savings identified by
the project.

Summary: Cost-Benefit Analysis
Concept                                                                                   US$ (approx)

Benefits
Annual Potential Savings, 4 States (March 2012)                                                $26,190,000

Costs
Project Cost, 15 States                                                                        $11,710,000
     Borrower                                                                                   $7,000,000
     IBRD                                                                                       $4,710,000

While the scale of additional potential savings from the remaining eleven participating
states will depend on the distribution of irregular records across these states, even if no
potential savings are reported by the other eleven participating states, the internal rate of
return on the PARSEP II investment is very high. Over twenty years, discounting the
annual US$26.2 million (R$47.1 million) in potential savings by the current interest rate
in Brazil, Taxa Sélic, (9.75%) and assuming that the state-level actions necessary to
convert potential savings into actual savings are taken in the first year, PARSEP II‘s
internal rate of return would be 195%.29




29
     This also assumes that the exchange rate remains R$1.8 per US$ over the 20 year period.



                                                      31
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower disagrees with the project‘s overall rating, which considers it to be highly
satisfactory based on the following indicators: (i) the cadastre upgrade exercise included
94.94% of the civil servants, retirees and pensioners initially estimated; (ii) the project
executed 98% of the funds; and (iii) the project had an internal rate of return of 195%.
The Borrower considers that the capacity of the MPS to implement the project was also
satisfactory, in respect of the human resources devoted and the planning, coordination
and monitoring of the project through contact with State Governments and local
contractors.

According to the Borrower, the Government properly addressed the challenge of working
with different states‘ branches from the very beginning, highlighting the signing of 24
Participation Agreements as evidence of the Government‘s proactivity. Prior to the
initiation of the recadastramento process, in April 2008, the Government contacted all
possibly interested parties and requested that those interested in participating indicate
such by 25 April 2008. Subsequently, the Government sent Participation Agreements to
those who expressed their interest in April and May 2008.

The Borrower identified two main elements that negatively affected the achievement of
the initial targets: (i) insufficient funds due to changes in the exchange rates (which
reduced the number of recadastramentos it was possible to finance from 24 to 19), and
(ii) changes of administration in some of the autonomous branches that had signed the
agreement with MPS and desisted from participating at the time of the bidding process
(which reduced the number of states included to 15). The Borrower emphasized that its
work to develop and modify the Terms of Reference for the recadastramento contracts
was concurrent with its efforts to secure State participation. They noted that most of the
Technical Cooperation Agreements with the States were signed in 2008 (before the
initiation of the bidding process), and that the last was signed in May 2009 (six months
before the initiation of the bidding process in November 2009 and one year before
contracts were signed with the winners in May 2010).

The Borrower denied the PCU‘s lack of familiarity with or capacity to carry out the
Bank‘s procurement rules and emphasized the PCU‘s ability to execute international loan
agreements, as evidenced by past domestic and international audits and its experience
with PREVMUN and PARSEP I. They attributed the issues related to the procurement
process for the recadastramento exercise to the PCU‘s need to comply with decisions
taken by the Court of Accounts (Tribunal de Contas da União, TCU) in 2009, and the
subsequent time that it took for the Bank to communicate its non-objection to the changes
as well as Government‘s need mobilize a supplemental credit to execute the contracts in
2010, as a result of the bidding process not finishing until late December 2009.

The Borrower highlighted the development of the SIPREV/Management of RPPS
databases (which has 1,898 users), which allows states to public servants along their
pension cycle, carry out censuses of cadastre data, validate data prior sending it to the
National Cadastre of Social Information of RPPS (CNIS/RPPS), and cross data from



                                            32
different state institutions. States are currently in the process of loading local databases
which will then feed the CNIS/RPPS, with the objective of crossing individual State‘s
information. The Borrower provided additional details about the identification of
irregular claimants, which has been incorporated into Annex 7, and emphasized the long
term gains from the crossing of the databases. The irregularities identified may include
payments to civil servants, retirees and pensioners who are reported in the MPS system as
having died; individuals who are actively linked to several positions (or a position and a
pension) or who are linked to other positions at the time that they are issued a new
contract; and undue payments to public employees and officials, retirees and pensioners.

The Borrower believes that there exists interest within the States to engage in a follow up
project to PARSEP II in the future. The Government noted its commitment to supporting
Article 3 of Law Number 10.887/2004, which requires State Governments to send
information on active public employees, pensioners and retirees to the MPS, and imposes
a penalty for noncompliance.




                                            33
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

Country Assistance Strategy for the Federative Republic of Brazil for the period 2003-
2007. Report No. 27043-BR

Country Partnership Strategy for the Federative Republic of Brazil for the Period
FY2012-2015 – Report no. 63731-BR.

Implementation Completion Report for the State Pension Systems Reform Technical
Assistance Project (PARSEP). Report No: 35840-BR

―Novo sistema pode gerar economia de R$7 bi por ano‖ Valor Economico, March 13,
2012.         http://www2.valoronline.com.br/brasil/2567356/novo-sistema-pode-gerar-
economia-de-r-7-bi-por-ano/

Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Loan No. 7428-BR, January
2011. Report no 59146 v.1

Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Second State Pension Reform
Technical Assistance Loan, May 2011. Report no 61672 v.1

Second State Pension Reform Technical Assistance Project (PARSEP II) Implementation
Status Reports, 2007-2011.

Second State Pension Reform Technical Assistance Project (PARSEP II) Project
Appraisal Document, January 10, 2007, Report No: 34616-BR

―Servidores fantasmas fica sem salário‖, published in the front page of the Brasilia
State‘s newspaper ―Correio Braziliense‖ in October 18, 2011




                                           34
Annex 7. The Cadastre Upgrade (Recadastramento) Methodology30

The cadastre upgrade process undertaken within PARSEP II was carried out by
consulting firms under the supervision of the Social Security Secretariat (SPS) and in
coordination with state authorities. The consulting firms had one year to perform a census
of the state pension system and organize its results. The cost of this process, which was
composed of eight stages, was determined by the expected number of public servants‘
records to be updated (the signed contracts in May 2010 reflect a R$47 cost per estimated
public servant).

Recadastramento Process

1.      Planning. The process begins with a series of planning meetings between the
consulting firm, MPS, SPS, and state authorities. In the first meeting, representatives
from MPS present the initial steps for the Census to the consultants and explain
SIPREV/Management of RPPS. Subsequently, a second set of meetings are organized in
each participating state. These meetings include representatives from the state social
security authorities and the consulting firm. The final meeting organizes working teams
which integrate the three categories of participants (e.g. those from the central and state
governments, and consultants), creates a coordination structure within each State and
establishes the steps required of States in order to prepare for the Census. At this meeting,
the consulting firm explains the methodology it will employ and following the meeting,
provides State-specific timelines outlining the actions to be taken as part of the Census,
the required resources, the subsequent processing of the collected information, and
outputs.

2.      Preparation of the Advertising Campaign. The next stage of the process
involves an advertising campaign to emphasize the importance of the social security
system and the maintenance of an accurate registration system. The campaign, designed
by the consulting firm, requires the approval of the coordination structure created in the
initial meetings. Advertising is usually required to utilize a variety of channels, including
internet postings, bulletins, radio and television ads, notes on paychecks of public
servants in the previous month, t-shirts, pamphlets and banners, with the prevalence of
some forms (e.g. banners and signs) determined by the number of public servants.

3.     Execution of Publicity Campaign. The campaign is required to begin at least ten
days after the beginning of the Census. Following the campaign, the consulting firm is
required to submit a report (including photographs) documenting the campaign.

4.     Preparation of the Recadastramento Strategy. The consulting firm is also
required to prepare a report documenting the location of service centers at which public
servants could come to re-register and the resources required for each center.



30
     Source: Contract for the Cadastre Upgrade, Annex II – Technical Specifications



                                                     35
5.      Execution of the Recadastramento. The consulting firm develops a computer
application accessible over the internet that allows public servants to verify their current
information (as contained in State databases) online. Consultants collect any data
missing from the State databases necessary to link the information with the
SIPREV/Management of RPPS databases. Public servants bring original copies of their
personal documents to the re-registration center to be copied and have their picture taken.
The re-registration is expected to take sixty six days, with the number of the number of
service centers and their employees set according to the anticipated number of public
servants. Most of these deadlines are then extended to allow all public servants and/or
retirees to re-register (in some cases recadastramentos are oriented only to retirees, such
as Rio Grande do Sul for PARSEP II).

6.      Database Integration. The cadastre upgrade process also includes, with the
permission of State authorities, the integration of the States‘ individual social security
databases with the SIPREV/Management of RPPS databases. Prior to the beginning of
the Census, participating States provide consultants with their existing social security
databases. This information forms the basis of the information to be used in the
recadastramento. Consultants then develop applications (to be subsequently shared with
both MPS and State authorities) to integrate this information with the
SIPREV/Management of RPPS databases and data collected in the re-registration process.
They also develop processes for periodically merging the information contained in State
and central databases, train States‘ technical staff on the application used to integrate the
databases, install SIPREV/Management of RPPS databases in each state and write a
report containing the information necessary to work with and update the databases. It is
on this stage where irregularities can be found. These irregularities may include payments
to civil servants, retirees and pensioners who are reported in the MPS system as having
died; individuals who are actively linked to several positions (or a position and a pension)
or who are linked to other positions at the time that they are issued a new contract; and
undue payments to public employees and officials, retirees and pensioners.

7.      Digitization of Public Servants’ Records. Public servants‘ and pensioners‘
records collected as part of the Census are then digitized. Consultants are responsible for
providing scanned copies of the collected personal documents (indexed by three different
identification schemes) to the State authorities for integration in the
SIPREV/Management of RPPS system. They are also required to transfer any
photocopies of the documents to authorities, and to document their related actions in a
report.

8.      Final Report/Program Evaluation. The last stage involves the preparation of a
final report by the consulting firm with the purpose of documenting the information
collected during the recadastramento process. In addition to presenting the results under
various tabulations, reports should include information on the technologies and
methodologies employed; problems faced and lessons learned; general recommendations;
and, estimates of the number of unregistered workers and their salaries, in order to
calculate the associated public losses.




                                            36
                                                            To Ciudad Guayana
                                  70°W                                                             60°W                                                                     50°W                                                       40°W
                                                      R.B. DE                                      GUYANA
                                                    VENEZUELA
                                                                                                                       SURINAME
                                                                                                                                                       French
                                                                                                                                                       Guiana                                                                                                                               BRAZIL
                                                    r i n oc                                                                                            (Fr.)                                                 AT LA NT IC




                                                    O
                                                            o
                         COLOMBIA                                                      Boa Vista
                                                                                                                                                                                                               O CEA N
                                                                                                                                                             AMAP?                                                                                                                       STATE CAPITALS
                                                                                          RORAIMA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                             Macapá
                 0°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0°                    RIVERS
                                                                                   Ne                                                                    zon
                                                                                     gro                                                              Ama                                                                                                                                MAIN ROADS
                                                           A m a z o n                                                                                                               Belém
                                                                                                                                                                                                               São Luís
                                                                                          Manaus                                                                                                                                                                                         RAILROADS
                                                                       Am
                                                                            az o




                                                                                                                                        jó s
                                                                                   n                                                                                                                                                          Fortaleza
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         STATE BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                      pa
                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                                       Ta




                                                                                                            eir
                                                                                                         ad
                                                                       B a s i n                                                                                                                                            Teresina                     RIO GRANDE




                                                                                                        M
                                                                                                                                                             PA R ?                                 MARANHÃO                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CEAR?             DO NORTE
                                     AMAZONAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Natal
                                                                   u
                                                                  s




                                                                Pur




                                                                                                                                                               u
                                                                                                                                                           Xing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PARA?BA         João




                                                                                                                      Tele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                PIAU?                                            Pessoa




                                                                                                                           s
                                                                              Porto Velho                                                                                                                                                PERNA




                                                                                                                                                                                        Tocantins
                                                                                                                          Pir
                                                                                                                                 es                                                                                                           MBUC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O             Recife
                              ACRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Maceió




                                                                                                                                                                           ia
                                     Rio Branco                                                                                                                                                                           o
                                                                                                                                                                                        Palma                           sc




                                                                                                                                                                     Aragua
                 10°S                                             RONDÔNIA                                  Juruena                                                                                                                                       ALAGOAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ci
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Aracaju




                                                                                                                                                                                                               São Fr
                                                                                                                                                                                TOCANTINS                           BAHIA
                                                                                                                                  MATO                                                                                                               SERGIPE
                           PERU                                                                                                  GROSSO
                                                                                                         Mato Grosso                                                             B r a z i l i a n                                            Salvador
                                                                                                           Plateau
                                                                                                                                            Cuiabá                                     F.D.
                                                                                                                                                                         BRAS?LIA
                                                                 BOLIVIA
                                                                                                                                                                   GOI?S           Goiânia          MINAS GERAIS

                      PAC IF IC                                                                To                                                                               H i g h l a n d s
                                                                                           Santa Cruz
                                                                                                                          MATO GROSSO                                                                          Belo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ESP?RITO
                      OC E AN        CHILE                                                                                   DO SUL
                                                                                                                                                                          Grande                             Horizonte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SANTO
                                                                                                                      Paragu y




                 20°S                                                                                                                       Campo                                                                                                                20°S
                                                                                                                                            Grande                                                                          Vitória
                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                            a




                                                                                                   Santa Cruz
                                                                                                                                                                     SÃO PAULO
                                                                                                                                                         á
                                                                                                                                                       an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RIO DE
                                                                                                                                                       r
                                                                                                                                                     Pa




                                                                                                         PARAGUAY                                                                São Paulo                   Rio de         JANEIRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Janeiro
                                                                                                                                                           PARAN?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AT L AN T I C
                                                                                                                                                                                  Curitiba
                                         BRAZIL
                                                                                                                                                                                    STA CATARINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OCE AN
                                                                                                                                                                                    Florianópolis

                                                                                                                                            RIO GRANDE
                                                                                                                                               DO SUL
                                                                                                                                                                     Porto Alegre
                                                                                                                                                                                                        0        200           400      600 Kilometers           30°S
                 30°S                                             ARGEN TINA
                                                                  ARGENTINA
SEPTEMBER 2009




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 33377R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                           To Buenos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                Aires
                                                                                                                          URUGUAY                                                                       0                   200          400 Miles                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                             70°W                                                       60°W                                                         50°W                                                   40°W
                                                                                                                                      To Montevideo
