                                           Documentof
                                       The World Bank

                               FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                           ReportNo. 3 1450-YU




                             PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ON A

                                     PROPOSED CREDIT

                           INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR3.3 MILLION
                               (US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                               TO

                                SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO

                                             FOR A

                    MONTENEGRO EDUCATION REFORMPROJECT

                                          March 7, 2005




HumanDevelopment Sector Unit
SouthEast EuropeCountry Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bankauthorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (ExchangeRate Effective January 3 1,2005)


                               Currency Unit = Euro
                                      Euro 1 = US$1.3053
                                 US$1.52169 = SDRl

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1    - December31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BES       Bureau for Education Services
CIDA      CanadianInternationalDevelopmentAgency
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability Assessment
DPRS      Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy
ECA       Europe and Central Asia
EMIS      Education Management Information System
EAR       EuropeanAgency for Reconstruction
FMR       Financial MonitoringReport
FOSI-ROM  Foundation Open Society Institute -RepresentativeOffice Montenegro
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GNI       Gross National Income
GOM       Government of Montenegro
IFC       International Finance Corporation
ICT       Information and Communication Technology
IDA       International Development Association
IDP       Internally Displaced Person
ILO       International Labour Organisation
MDG       MillenniumDevelopment Goal
MFA       Ministry of ForeignAffairs (Finland)
MOES      Ministry of Education and Science
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MTEF      Medium Term Expenditure Framework
OECD      Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development
RAE       Roma, Ashkaelia and Egyptian
PHRD      Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PISA      Programmefor International Student Assessment
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAM       Serbia and Montenegro
SPU       Strategy andPlanningUnit
SWAP      Sector Wide Approach
TSS       Transitional Support Strategy
TSU       Technical Services Unit
UNDP      UnitedNations Development Programme
UNICEF    UnitedNations International Children's Fund
VET       Vocational Education and Training

                               Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                            Country Director:      Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                             Sector Manager:       Maureen McLaughlin
                           Task Team Leader:       Toby Linden

                                                                                           FOROFFICTAL,USEONLY
                                           SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO
                                     MontenegroEducationReformProject

                                                            CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                    Page

 A .   STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                             .................................................................  1
    1.  Country and sector issues....................................................................................................                 1
    2.  Rationale for Bank involvement .........................................................................................                      4
    3.  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes ....................................................                                 4

 B .   PROJECT DESCRIPTION                       .................................................................................................    4
    1.  Lending instrument .............................................................................................................              4
    2.  Project development objective and key indicators..............................................................                                4
    3 . Project components.............................................................................................................               5
    4.  Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design............................................................                                7
    5.  Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection..............................................................                               8

  C.   IMPLEMENTATION                   ..........................................................................................................    8
    1.  Partnership arrangements (ifapplicable) ............................................................................                           8
    2.  Institutional and implementation arrangements ..................................................................                               9
    3 . Monitoring and evaluation o f outcomes/results ..................................................................                              9
    4.  Sustainability .......................................................................................................................         9
    5.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects...............................................................                              10
    6.  Loadcredit conditions and covenants...............................................................................                            10

  D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
   .                                           .................................................................................................      11
    1.  Economic and financial analyses ......................................................................................                        11
    2.  Technical...........................................................................................................................          11
    3.  Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................         12
    4.  Social.................................................................................................................................       12
    5.  Environment......................................................................................................................             12
    6.  Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................               13
    7.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                         13

This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                    .
without World Bank authorization                            .

Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background                               .........................................................     14

Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                    .................21
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                       ........................................................................      22

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description           ......................................................................................        24

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................         28

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                   .................................................................................       29

Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                                            .....................................   30

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements               ......................................................................................        35

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis                  .............................................................................       41

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues         ............................................................................................         48

Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision                      .....................................................................       49

Annex 12: Documents in the Project File               .................................................................................        50

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                 ..............................................................................        51

Annex 14: Country At A Glance        ................................................................................................          53



Map: IBRD 32322

                                 SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO

                      MONTENEGROEDUCATION REFORM PROJECT

                              PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                EUROPEAND CENTRALASIA

                                              ECSHD

Date: March 7,2005                                  Team Leader: Toby Linden
Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos            Sectors: General education sector (100%)
Sector Manager: Maureen Anne McLaughlin             Themes: Education for all (P)
Project ID: PO84597                                 Environmental screening category: C (Not
                                                    Required)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan        Safeguard screening category: S3 (No Impact)
                                      Project FinancingData
[ 3 Loan   [XI Credit   [ ] Grant  [ ] Guarantee          [ 3 Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 5.00
Terms: Modified IDA terms, with a maturity o f 20 years, 10years grace period, and no acceleration
clause

                  Source                            Local             Foreign              Total
BORROWEWRECIPIENT                                       0.00               0.00                 0.00
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT                                4.11               0.89                 5.00
ASSOCIATION
Total:                                                  4.11               0.89                 5.00

Borrower:
Serbia and Montenegro

ResponsibleAgency:
Ministryo fEducationand Science of Montenegro



FY            2006       2007     2008      2009        2010
4nnual          1.40      1.50     1.00      0.70        0.40
Zumulative      1.40      2.90     3.90      4.60        5.00




                                                   i

Does the project depart from the CAS in content or other significant respects? Re$
PADA.3                                                                                   [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                              [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these beenapproved by Bank management?                                              [ ]Yes [XINO
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                             [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Re$ PAD C.5                                                                              [XIYes [ ] N o
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation? Re$
PAD D.7                                                                                  [XIYes [ ] N o

Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
The objective o f the Project is to strengthen the capacity of the education system to make continuous
improvements, especially in the quality o f teaching and learning in schools and in the efficient use o f
budgetary resources.
Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD B.3.a, TechnicalAnnex 4

Component 1: Reform Implementation(approximately $3.8 million from the Credit)

Under this component, support will be provided to extend the number o f primary and general secondary
schools included in the Government's reform program by providing textbooks and learning materials,
staff professional development, school equipment, and minor renovations and to evaluate the reform.

Component 2: Education Planning and Finance (approximately $1.2 million from the Credit).

This component will: (a) build capacity to prepare, execute and monitor a program budget; (b) support the
Strategy and Planning Unit to plan and implement the reform more effectively; (c) support the
optimization o f the school network and staffing levels to restructure the budget; and (d) assist the
Government to determine an effective plan for decentralization o f education finance.
Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
None.
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Re$ PAD C.6
Loadcredit effectiveness:
A signed Sub-credit agreement between Serbia and Montenegro and the Republic o f Montenegro.
Covenants applicable to project implementation:

The GOM will agree with the Bank on a sustainable program for ensuring children from socially
disadvantaged and minority backgrounds have access to the required curriculum materials. (1 July 2005
and each year thereafter by 1 January.)

Each year, by 1 January, the list o f schools involved inthe reform and funded from Credit proceeds i s to
be agreed with the Bank and will include schools which represent the diversity o f Montenegro and at least
two schools with a significant minority population.




                                                      ..
                                                      11

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
1. Country and sector issues

The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (Report 30426-YU) covering FY05-07 was discussedby
the BoardinDecember 2004. The Montenegro Education Reform Project is included inthe base
case scenario o f the CAS.

EconomicDevelopments. The Montenegrin Government adopted an extensive `economic reform
agenda' which covers a wide range o f sectors, including making the labor market more flexible
and improving the business environment. Real GDP i s estimated to have grown at about 4
percent in2000 and about 2 percent annually inthe past 3 years. Recent growth has beenmainly
inthe tourism sector as well as intransport and construction.

Poverty. According to national poverty lines (3.50 a day inMontenegro), around 10 percent of
the population was living in absolute poverty in 2002.        Growth i s expected to reduce the
incidence o f absolute poverty by a half by 2010. However, widening income inequality and
growing regional disparities are likely to pose a challenge to poverty reduction. More than 20
percent o f the labor force is unemployed (Household survey, based on a methodology close to
the InternationalLabour Organisation definition).

Poverty is closely linked to education attainment. According to the Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP), about 17 percent o f households whose family heads did not attend
secondary school have a three times higher rate o f poverty in comparison with families whose
heads have completed secondary education. Around 5 percent o f young adults in Montenegro
can be considered "educationally poor", meaningthat they are not attending school or have never
attended secondary school (16-24 year olds). The PRSP for Montenegro aims to reduce poverty
while supporting the present market-economy developmental orientation.             Priorities are
education, employment and small and medium enterprise (SME) development, health and social
protection. The PRSP i s considered in general sensible, if overly ambitious. The total costs are
estimated at 439.8 million for the three-year period from 2004-2006.

Public and total education expenditures are high, but financially unsustainable. Education
spending represents 7.2 percent o f GDP or 22 percent o f total Government spending, which is
comparable to wealthier countries (as compared to 5.3 percent of GDP in the United Kingdom,
7.4 percent in Estonia, and an average in OECD countries of 5.9 percent). However, efficiency
problems are evident in the sector. Arrears are very high (approximately 10 percent o f the
education budget) and there i s little money for quality-enhancing inputs like teacher training or
educational materials. Pupil-teacher ratios, at 1:12.9 at pre-school, 1:15.7 at elementary school
and 1:13.9 at secondary school level (2004 data), are close to international averages (OECD
mean o f 16.6:l in primary and 13.6:l in secondary).       Since 1999, the number o f pupils in
primary schools has fallen by about 2 percent per year. The Ministry o f Education and Science
(MOES) reportedthat approximately 700 teaching posts had been cut as pupil numbers continue
to fall, and in the school year 2004/5 new stricter norms for non-teaching staff are being
implemented.




                                                1

There are serious deficiencies in infrastructure, with almost all the schools operating in
double shifts and some, principally in the cities, intriple shifts. There has been little upgrading
o f buildings or equipment inthe last ten years, a period that has included economic crises. The
MOES uses 612 school facilities, but has a further 153 facilities in poor rural areas, where
teaching i s not taking place anymore due to the lack o f students. There are 16 schools in the
country with less than 30 pupils.

Access to learning opportunities is generally good. The enrolment rate in primary school
(children between 7-14 years o f age) was almost 97 percent in 2002.             The Millennium
Development Goal (MDG) 2 (`achieve universal basic education') i s therefore expected to be
met, as i s the education MDG 3 (`gender equality in elementary and secondary education') as
girls represent 49.6 percent o fpupils incompulsory education.

Insecondary education, overall enrolment rate is 85-90 percent. However, a highproportion of
students (approximately 75 percent) are in vocational or technical education programs. This i s
likely to be the main explanation for the poor labor market outcomes. In fact, secondary
education graduates have higher levels o f unemployment than primary education graduates.

The enrolment rate is much lower in ethnic minority groups, especially among the Roma,
Ashkaelia and Egyptian (RAE) ethnic group which forms 3.3 percent of the population. It i s
generally accepted that there i s a high dropout o f Roma following initial entry into primary
education, though no hard data. The rate o f illiteracy among the adult RAE population i s 76
percent, while the illiteracy among the general adult population amounts to only 6 percent.

Labor market outcomes are poor, and low-quality inputs suggest that student learning
outcomes are poor, although reliable measures o f student achievement do not exist. Inputs into
the learning process are of generally poor quality. Teachers, the key input, are paid somewhat
better than in other countries in the region but salaries are very low in relation to the living
expenses especially in urban areas. The average monthly salary o f a teacher i s 240, while a
teacher at the University o f Montenegro earns an average o f 350 per month. However, a
consumer basket consisting o f basic food staff for family o f four was 254 in September 2004.
Teacher salaries do not correspond to teacher's performance. Learningmaterials and equipment
are o f poor quality, and information and communication technology (ICT) i s readily available at
only a small minority o f schools.

Approaches to teaching and learning are, in some areas, outdated, with no effective
professionaldevelopmentsystem to address these deficiencies. Teacher pre-service education
includes limitedmodern teaching methods and teaching practice.

The Government of Montenegro initiated a major education reformin mid-1999, which has
since been formulated into a `Book o f Changes' in 2001.           This reform agenda has drawn
extensively on international experience and is well-designed (though there are some issues about
its cost, see below).     The general aim o f the reform i s to provide education that promotes
development, supports inclusiveness and participation, meets individual needs, provides
individuals with the opportunities for freedom o f thought, and provides a basis o f the
development o f youth and adults who respect human rights, the legal state, democracy and



                                                 2

tolerance. The G O M has also developed Action Plans for Children and for Roma, which have a
central role for education and which include measurable indicators (built around the MDGs).

New legislation for the reform has been approved and implementation is underway. The plans
include the extension o f compulsory primary education to nine years by including six-year olds
into primary education and to reform o f curricula at all levels o f education. The new curricula
for all levels up to the university have been drafted and the majority o f these curricula for the
elementary school grades have been approved. The reforms, including the implementationo f the
new curricula, were started in20 pilot elementary schools from all over the Republic (there are
161 main elementary schools in Montenegro, with 322 satellite units). These schools started
with the new first grade curricula at the beginning of school year 2004/2005. An additional 27
elementary schools have been selected for next school year. The Bureau for Education Services
(BES)has also developedplans for evaluatingthe reform.

However, the Government's reform is              threatened by several factors.          First, the
Government'sintentionto partly decentralizeeducationalfinancing, butwithout a broader
restructuringof education functions, is not likely to be effective. Under the Government's
recent proposals, some expenses - mainly teachers' salaries and capital investment - would be
provided from the state budget, while remaining expenses o f schools would be met by local
governments. However, the municipalities objected to taking on an additional burdenfor which
they consider they do not have adequate resources and these proposals are currently being
reconsidered. Educational decentralization to municipalities can be effective where they have
sufficient schools, and therefore sufficient budget, combined with the technical knowledge to
support schools in improving educational quality.           Equitable and transparent financing
arrangements are also needed between the central and local administration. Given the small
number of schools in Montenegro and that there are 21 municipalities, it is not clear that these
conditions can be fulfilled. This i s not to deny that some form o f decentralization, for example,
by giving schools greater control over their budgets, might not be beneficial. These issues are to
be clarified inthe public debate and consultations.

Second, the capacityfor strategic planning,budgeting,managingand monitoringthe system
remainsweak and so is the capabilityto implementthe ambitious reform. The challenge is
to turn reform principles and new legislation into strategies and action plans. The reform calls
for a significant capacity building of current staff at educational institutions at the central level,
local governments and schools. As importantly, the high level o f arrears and lack o f non-salary
expendituremakes any reform fragile and unlikely to be sustained; but the Government's reform
agenda does not tackle these issues head on. In particular, the current cost o f reform schools
means that expansion o f the reform to all schools within the Government's proposed timetable
requires tackling the budget structure.

At the central level, institutional re-organization has beeninitiated. For example, the MOES has
beenrestructured to perform roles mainly related to policy-making, co-ordination, financing, and
international co-operation in education. Two central institutions have been formed: one for
general education (the BES) and one for vocational education (the Centre for Vocational
Education). Many employees who were in the education inspectorate have transferred from the
MOES to these institutions. BES still hosts an examination center, which i s planned to become



                                                  3

independent in 2005 pending government approval and budget allocation.             These central
professional institutions are considered to be o f key importance in the implementation o f the
reform and in the quality assessment and assurance o f education in the future. However, their
experience is limited and significant capacity building i s needed.

Third, the current structure of secondary education, with its very high proportion of
students in vocational and technical courses, needs a significant overhaul. This means
modernizing VET courses and teaching practices, by broadening curricular and increasing
general education content; but probably also shifting more students into general education, to
promote improvements in relevance and affordability. These trends are observed across the
European Union. As yet, however, the Government has not planned to tackle this issue. The
European Agency for Reconstruction (EAR) has just awarded a contract for a project in VET,
but this does not tackle the overall balance insecondary education.

A number of other donors and international agencies are becoming active in the education
sector. The Governments o f Finland and Canada have expressed an interest inteacher education
and capacity building o f the central agencies and Ministry areas where UNICEF, UNDP and
Foundation Open Society Institute- Representative Office Montenegro (FOSI-ROM) are active.
The Government o f Finland is also interested ininclusive education.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

The Bank's value-added i s its considerable experience in other countries o f the former
Yugoslavia, its focus on quality improvement and fiscal sustainability, and from its ability to
bringtogether the other donor agencies, several o f whom are defining or beginningtheir support.
The links to the proposed Programmatic Development Policy Loan (planned for Bank FY07)
will be used to ensure that difficult but necessary steps on the path to budget and reform
sustainability are taken.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

The Project i s included inthe 2005-2007 CAS, and will support the first and third pillars: viz, on
creating a smaller, more sustainable, more efficient public sector and on reducing poverty levels;
and improving social protection and access to public services.

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. Lending instrument

Under this Project the International Development Association (IDA) will provide a $5 million
equivalent credit, implemented over four years.

2. Project development objective and key indicators

The objective o f the Project i s to strengthen the capacity o f the education system to make
continuous improvements, especially inthe quality o f teaching and learning in schools and inthe
efficient use o f budgetary resources. The target beneficiaries are therefore teachers, school



                                                 4

directors and central ministry/agency staff. Changes in their behavior during the Project will
lead to improvements in services provided to students and, in due course, increases in learning
outcomes.

Key indicators will be:

    0   Teachers engaging in behavior known to lead to increases in student learning and
        students using new learning materials in the classroom (measured through classroom
        observations under the new school quality assurance model and periodic surveys).


    0   Elimination o f education arrears, and increase innon-salary current expenditures from the
        State Budget to 15 percent o f total government spending on primary and secondary
        education (measured through figures from the Ministryo f Finance).

3. Projectcomponents

The Project's two components target key priorities for effectively implementing the
Government's education reform program and are complementary to other donors' activities and
the Government's Action Plans on Roma and on Children.

Component 1: ReformImplementation (estimated $3.8 million from Credit funds).

Under this component, support will be provided to extend the number o f primary and general
secondary schools included in the Government's reform program. About 50 schools, additional
to those being funded by the Government, will be supported from the Credit. The Project will
pay for the various parts o f the package o f interventions that reform schools receive, such as
textbooks and learning materials, staff professional development, school equipment, and minor
renovations. The existing institutions will be used: the BES will organize teacher and school
director training, the MOES will determine and meet the equipment and renovation needs o f
schools, the Textbook Department o f the MOES will oversee textbook development and, when
established as independento f the BES, the Examination Center will develop the assessments.

Each year, a selection o f schools that represents the diversity o f Montenegrin schools (by social
background, ethnicity, and geography) will be included, with at least two schools with significant
minority populations (starting with four schools with large Albanian populations in2005).

Minor Repairs and School Equipment. The MOES will organize the minor repairs to schools,
such as repairing roofs, heating, water and sewage systems, windows, painting, making rooms
more secure, etc. A standard package o f school furniture and equipment, based on the number o f
pupils, will be developed and centrally procured.

Textbooks and Learning Materials. This component will support the development costs of
textbooks and other learning materials for the new general education curriculum, including in
minority languages and for children with special needs. The process will be managed by the
MOES Textbook Department. The Project will finance the printing and distribution costs to the
most disadvantaged groups; the Government will finance these costs for others. It i s estimated



                                                  5

that 50,000 books will be needed for disadvantaged groups to cover all curriculum subjects and
grades.   The Project will ensure that books are available in minority languages and for
disadvantaged groups, either through direct purchasing o f books for parents, a book rental
scheme, promoting a usedbook market, and/or supplying school libraries with books.

School Staff Professional Development. Training will be given to teachers and directors in
schools implementingthe new curriculum. Since the Government intends all schools to become
reform schools by the end o f the Project, all teachers in Montenegro will have been trained
within the next four years.     The Project will support a sustainable approach to continuous
professional development aimed toward creation o f school-based need-driven approach and
based on clearly defined standards inline with reform objectives. The training will be organized
by the BES. Finally, the Project will assist the MOES to design and pilot a `promoted posts'
scheme, to recognize the extra skills and knowledge o f expert teachers.

National Assessments and Evaluation. This component will build the capacity of the new
Examination Center to develop and carry out grade 6 assessments in subjects specified in
General Law on Education. The Examination Center has developed a Strategic Plan, which will
need to be converted into more detailed annual work plans; the Project will assist with this
process and then help implement it. The Project will fund Montenegro's participation in the
Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) 2006 and 2009, and will help the BES
to implement its plans for school self-evaluation, which will enable comparisons to be made
betweenreform and non-reform schools.

Creditproceeds willpay for consultant services (authors, illustrators, designers, proofreaders and
translators for textbook development, implementation o f the textbook rental scheme, teacher
training system design, trainer fees, evaluation o f reform, national assessment development, civil
works design and supervision, the promoted posts pilot, and project audit). Credit proceeds will
also pay for school renovations, for printingand distribution o f textbooks, materials for students,
teachers and for student assessment, for license fees and purchase o f foreign textbooks and
learning materials, for school and office furniture and IT equipment, and for logistical costs o f
training and workshops. There will also be provision for PISA participation costs and for study
tours for key technical staff.

Retroactive financing will pay for activities needed to prepare schools for the 2005 school year:
viz., the development o f textbooks, textbook licenses and teacher training. Total retroactive
financing will be approximately $160,000.

Component 2. Education Planning and Finance (estimated $1.2 million from Credit funds).

The Project will:
        0  build capacity to prepare, execute and monitor a program budget;
        0  support the Strategy and Planning Unitto plan and implement the reform more
           effectively;
        0  support the optimization o f the school network and staffing levels to restructure the
           budget; and




                                                 6

        0   assist the Government to determine and implement an effective plan for
            decentralization o f education finance.

A new Strategy and Planning Unit has been created and will be the focus o f capacity building
efforts. This Unit consists o f key staff from the MOES, BES, the Examination Center, the VET
Centre, and the Textbook Department.

Budget Restructuring. Inthe first year o f the Project, emphasis will be on helping the MOES
and BES become more effective at meeting the Government's new programme budgeting and
the Medium Term Expenditure Framework requirements and to develop a medium term action
plan for eliminating arrears in education (as part o f the preparation o f the forthcoming
Programmatic Development Policy Loan). As part o f the Government budget preparation cycle,
the MOES and BES will prepare a plan for implementation of the reform and institutional
capacity building. This plan will include activities to be funded from the Credit inthe following
year, with benchmarks for implementationprogress.

Facilitating School Data Collection. The MOES has recently enhanced its collection o f data
from schools. The Project will purchase the computers neededby schools to enter the data and
submitto the MOES, as well as use the data for school management purposes.

Education Finance Decentralization.        The Project will provide support to the MOES, the
Ministry of Finance (MOF), and municipalities to identify the options, pilot, and then implement
decentralization in the education sector to schools and municipalities. The exact shape o f this
decentralization i s not clear, but the Government i s committed to pursuing decentralization in
some form. Training will be provided to staff in schools and to budget staff in the MOES, the
MOF and the 21 municipalities.

Credit proceeds will pay for IT equipment for schools, for training, for media services, and for
consultant services in strategic planning, program budgeting, and the design and implementation
o f decentralization.

4. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design

The Government's reform agenda i s fully in line with international good practice and focuses on
key issues for improving student learning and access for currently excluded groups, such as
curriculum development, assessment, and staff training. Moreover, the reform i s being phased
in, with only a small number of schools being included in the first year, and this phase being
evaluated as the number o f reform schools expands.          The Project therefore supports the
implementation o f this reform. However, the Government's plans do not currently address some
critical issues, such as capacity building, education finance, and decentralization, which the
Project will therefore also support.

Given the size o f Montenegro, it is important to build local capacity without duplicating
functions and to realize that there are limits to the competition among suppliers o f services to
schools (e.g., for training). It also means that key quality and equity functions will have to be
performed at the republic level. The project design therefore focuses on building the capacity o f



                                                  7

central institutions ina sustainable way, and the project management functions will be performed
by the MOES rather than a separate unit outside which would take skills and knowledge out of
the Ministry. Finally, while there are significant needs in many parts o f the education and
training system, it i s important to keep the Project as simple and focused as possible.

5. Alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection

Consideration was given to using aspects o f a Sector Wide Approach (SWAP). Some elements
will be followed, such as usingthe Government's accounting and reporting system; however, the
institutions involved in Project implementation will not be used to carry out procurement
functions, as these will be performed by the Technical Services Unit (TSU). Discussions with
the Government were movingtowards a comprehensive sector program, into which the Bank and
the Government (and possibly others would fit), but this agreement has not yet been achieved.
However, significant progress has been made with the other donors on closer collaboration,
including the joint institutional assessment being carried out and the agreement to have joint
reviewswith the Government including on its budget each year. It was agreed that the dialogue
with the Government and other donors should continue towards increasing the programmatic
elements as the Project i s implemented.

A major area where reform is needed is vocational education andtraining. However, the EARi s
active inthis sub-sector and the Bank project could not add value.

As noted above, there are significant infrastructure needs, especially in responding to
overcrowded schools inthe main cities. However, with the level o f IDA resources available, no
significant impact could be made. Rather, the Project i s designed to enable these infrastructure
needs to be met from government resources in the longer run, by tackling the current budget
structure and constraints.

C. IMPLEMENTATION
1. Partnershiparrangements(if applicable)

It has been agreed with the other international agencies active in the education sector that the
MinisterofEducationand Science will chair anEducationReformSteering Committeeto review
education progress and develop collective agreement on reform priorities for the following year.
The agencies have agreed to use a single report which will include all the actions to be carried
out, and supported by the donors, inthe next period.

The Governments of Finland and Canada have discussed with the Government of Montenegro to
support capacity building o f the MOES and the BES. The Ministry o f Foreign Affairs (MFA)
for Finland has discussed placing its international advisor in the Strategy and Planning Unit
(SPU), with a remit beyond inclusive education to include broader strategic management skills,
and using the same implementation arrangements as the Project, i.e., no separate project
management unit (see below). The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) has
agreed, during Appraisal, to ensure its contractor (already selected) carries out complementary
activities to those supported by the Bank and the MFA for Finland.




                                                   8

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

The SPU will have overall responsibility for planning, budgeting, and monitoring and evaluation,
and for reporting to the Bank on project progress. However, the various activities under the
Project will be organized by those government agencies who normally carry out these functions
(e.g., the BES for teacher training, the MOES for decentralization, etc.). Education i s wholly a
Republic responsibility so no SAM level institutions are involved inimplementation.

The GOM recently established the TSU, which is responsible for carrying out core procurement
and financial management functions for all Bank-financed projects, and potentially for other
donor-supported projects. The TSU, which i s currently managing transaction processing for the
World Bank-supported Health and Pensions Projects, has terms o f reference (TOR) that clearly
define its duties and its interactions with other members o f the implementation team. The TSU
has a Director, Senior Procurement Officer, and Finance Officer; and funding i s provided from
the Health Project Credit. The financial decisions affecting the Project will be made by the
MOES, however, the majority o f disbursement processing and accounting will utilize and rely
uponthe TSU.

3. Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results

The MOES is participating in the UNICEF-supported DevInfo programme and intends to use
this to monitor progress towards the PRSP goals, the MDGs, and the goals of the National
Action Plan for Children. The data to do this will be gathered twice a year from schools.

The BES, with donor support, is developing a model o f school quality assurance, which will be
used to measure classroom behaviors o f students and teachers, and to gather qualitative
information about the progress o f the reform. Quantitative measures o f student achievement will
be obtained from assessments in grades 3 (supported by FOSI-ROM) and 6 (supported by the
Project) and PISA in2006 and 2009. Other Project indicators will be gathered through reports or
information from the Ministry o f Finance (MOF).

Since the project management functions will be carried out by government agencies, the results
from monitoring and evaluation will be immediately available to policy makers both during
project implementation and afterwards.

4. Sustainability

Most o f the legislative framework for the reform agenda has been passed. The exception i s for
delegation o f some financing functions to municipalities; however, failure to pass these
legislative changes would not endanger project objectives since the Project would instead
support the more effective performance o f financing functions at the national level.

The Project is designed around building the capacity o f key agencies and education system
personnel in a sustainable way. In particular, the focus on strengthening the capacity of the
MOES to implement program budgeting and eliminating its arrears i s intended to create a
sustainable source o f funding for quality improvement activities at the school level. This will be



                                                  9

a key element o f ensuring the progress o f the reform can be maintained. Currently, parents pay
for textbooks and this provides a reliable source o f funding for a k e y input; the Project will
ensure that this remains sustainable while ensuring that textbooks are available for those families
who cannot afford to pay.

5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

                   Risks                         Risk Mitigation Measures            RiskRatingwith
                                                                                       Mitigation
 To project development objective
  Likely change inthe constitutional       These changes will not affect educatior         M
 status o f the Republic o f Montenegro   policy, which i s wholly a Republic
 within the Union o f Serbia and          function, but there is a risk that those

 I
 Montenegro                               involved in project implementation
                                          become distracted and project
                                          implementation slows.

 Improving education budgets prudently    The Project will intervene to strengthen
    illbesubjecttocompetingpolitical      capacity for budgetanalysis and                  H
 pressures: to resist rationalizing staff planning. The proposed Programmatic
 and schools, but to cut spending         Development Policy Credit (FY07)
  hrough any means                        would also mitigate this risk by
                                          enabling difficult reforms and ensuring
                                          efficiency gains remain inthe sector.
 TO component results
 Plans for decentralization o f education Usingthe Project to engage on this               M
 financing may not be well-designed,      issue offers the possibility o f adjusting
 but pursuedbecause o f broader           decentralization policy in light o f the
 political considerations                 experience.

  Resistance amongst education staff to An effective communications strategy
 participate in deep pedagogical change will be needed to overcome resistance,             M
                                          plusevaluation to demonstrate
                                          effectiveness o f new approaches.

 Government inexperience inBank           Intensive capacity building and use o f
 operations may slow procurement          the Technical Services Unit
                                                                                          M/H

Overall, this project is rated a moderate to highrisk.

6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants

Effectiveness: Signed Sub-credit Agreement between Serbia and Montenegro and the Republic
o f Montenegro.

Covenant: The GOM will agree with the Association on a sustainable program for ensuring
children from socially disadvantaged and minority backgrounds have access to the required


                                                     10

curriculum materials. This might include a scheme for renting books, for establishing a used
book market, and/or supplying schools and public libraries with books. (1 July 2005 and each
year thereafter by 1 January.)

Covenant: Each year, by 1 June, schools involved inthe reform and funded from Credit proceeds
will include schools which represent the diversity of Montenegro and at least two schools with a
significant minority population.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1. Economicand financialanalyses

The activities under the Project will increase public expenditure, unless efficiency savings are
made. The largest of these potential increases come from the number o f schools included inthe
reform program and the establishment o f the new examination center. These increases are
estimated to be around 8 million (this i s the cost above the 3.7 million financed from the
Project). After the Project closes, increased recurrent costs, from teacher training and assessment
activities, are expected to be 0.7 million a year. While these expenses are not large as a
proportion of the overall education budget (about 0.7 percent), they represent a large proportion
o f the non-salary expenditures (approximately 11percent).

Given that Government policy is to place an increasingly hard cap on public spending, these
additional costs can only be met from savings within the allocated education budget.           The
calculations show that if the Government were to close down all the small classes and schools,
and reduce the teaching force as a consequence, this would generate the savings o f 3.5 million
from teacher salaries. In addition, the falling school-age population would allow savings o f at
minimum 2.6 million, if the number o f teachers declines proportionally. With the projected
increase in the education budget in absolute terms, these savings would be more than enough to
cover the anticipated additional costs. Improved planning, promoted by the Project, would
ensure these savings are made and thenused effectively.

The Project will also yield other benefits which are not likely to accrue during the
implementation period and are more difficult to quantify. The most important o f these i s the
improvements to the quality o f education. Currently, secondary education graduates have the
highest rates o f unemployment, even higher than primary education graduates. Improvements in
teaching will lead to improvements in the skills and knowledge acquired by students; however,
improved labor market outcomes will not be seen duringthe Project period.

2. Technical

The Project supports a Government strategy that i s well-articulated. This is widely recognizedas
a key condition o f successful donor-funded projects. Moreover, the Project i s designed to be
able to respond flexibly to the dynamics o f the reform process. The reform i s aligned with
international good practice. Where key inputs are well-known, such as textbooks and teacher
professional development, these are planned to be funded directly from the beginning. In other
areas, such as capacity building, a needs-driven annual planning process i s used. This also plays




                                                 11

to the Bank's comparative advantage, as it can focus its technical assistance in these latter areas
where it can draw on multiple experiences inother countries as the needs arise.

3. Fiduciary

The SAM Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) report notes a number o f risks
on the management o f public funds. The risks to the public funds include: (a) poor public sector
financial management inthe past; (b) weak banking sectors; (c) weak audit capacity; and (d) the
lack o f Bank implementation experience.

During the period since the CFAA was published, the number o f commercial banks assessed as
acceptable to hold Special Accounts has increased from 3 to 5 and the number o f firms assessed
as acceptable to audit Bank-financed projects has increased from 2 to 4, indicating an
improvement inthe fiduciary    environment. Experience in implementing Bank-financed projects
i s increasing but the lending portfolio i s still too young to be able to conclude that the GOM has
a thorough understandingo f Bank operations.

The staff o f the TSU has some limited experience of World Bank procedures. The coordination
betweenthe TSU and the MOES inutilizing the PHRD project preparation grant has beengood.

4. Social

A social assessment will be conducted using PHRD grant funds. Terms of Reference have been
agreed; and it i s expected to be completed in May 2005. The assessment will also lay the
groundwork for a formal evaluation o f the impact o f the reform on schools.

Given the size o f Montenegro, the Project aims to support a comprehensive system reform,
which will, for example, have an impact on every school. Within this, however, specific priority
will be given to reaching schools with high RAE populations, to evaluate the effectiveness of
interventions for these students and lay the foundation for applications to the donor-supported
Roma Education Fund. The Project i s consistent with Government's Action Plan for the Decade
o f Roma Inclusion and Project activities are closely linked with several goals o f the Action Plan,
especially involvement o f schools with Roma population in school development planning,
providing additional space in schools with Roma population and providing textbooks and
learning materials for Roma children.

5. Environment

No issues arise.




                                                     12

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                            Yes                    No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                               1x1
                                                                                         - -                     11
                                                                                                                 _ _
  NaturalHabitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                            [I                    [XI
  PestManagement (OP 4.09)                                                                [I                    [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                 [I                    [XI
  InvoluntaryResettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                    [I                    [XI
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                  [I                    [XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                    [I                    [XI
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                             [I                    [XI
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                               [I                    [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                     [I                    [XI

Itis expectedthat the Credit will be for technical assistance, goods and services. Some minor
works will be necessary.

7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

This Project has been approved by Bank management, andmeets the Regional criteria for
readiness for implementation, and no exceptions to Bank policy are needed.




liBy supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas


                                                             13

                    Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
              SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO: MontenegroEducationReform

The Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) for Serbia and Montenegro (SAM) (Report 22090-YU,
June 26, 2001; with updates each year since), provided a three-year program o f support with a
US$540 million temporary and exceptional IDA envelope. A full three-year participatory
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) covering FY05-07 and developed jointly with the
International Finance Corporation (IFC) was approved by the Board in December 2004. The
Montenegro Education Reform Project i s included inthe base case.

PoliticalBackground. A new constitutional State Union of Serbia and Montenegro was formed
in February 2003, which clarified the responsibilities of the two constitutive Republics.
Education i s entirely a Republic responsibility, and the Project requires no role for the State
Union in implementation. Montenegro has a population o f 618,000 compared to Serbia's 8
million.

Both Serbian and Montenegrin leaders have placed a highpriority on seeking early accession to
the European Union (EU) and, in general, the EU has promoted the harmonization o f the two
economic systems. Recently, the EU agreed to introduce a more flexible path to accession,
allowing the majority o f accession issues, including those on economics and trade, to be lead at
the republican level within the context of a single stabilization and association agreement on the
union level. Montenegro's ruling coalition garnered a large majority in the 2002 elections, but
there have been earlier delays to various important items o f legislation, for many reasons
including lack o f political will. The next election i s due inNovember 2006.

Economic Developments. The effects of poor economic management, compounded by
international sanctions and conflicts (1992-1996 and 1998-2000) led to per capita GDP in 2002
falling to about one-half o f its 1989 level. SAM had accumulated large domestic and external
debts, with the latter reaching around 131percent o f GDP in2000 before declining to 76 percent
at end-2002. GNI per capita i s now approximately $1,400.

The Montenegrin Government adopted an extensive `economic reform agenda' which covers a
wide range o f sectors, including making the labor market more flexible and improving the
business environment. Real GDP i s estimated to have grown at about 4 percent in 2000 and
about 2 percent annually in the past 3 years. Recent growth has been mainly in the tourism
sector as well as intransport and construction.

Poverty. According to national poverty lines (3.50 a day inMontenegro), around 10 percent of
the population was living in absolute poverty in 2002.          Growth i s expected to reduce the
incidence o f absolute poverty by a half by 2010. However, widening income inequality and
growing regional disparities are likely to pose a challenge to poverty reduction. Moreover,
vulnerability to even small shocks remains high. Poverty among refugees and Internally
Displaced Persons (IDPs)          i ssignificantly higher than within the local populations.
Unemployment i s particularly high in Montenegro, reaching one o f the highest levels in the
region. According to the ISSP Household survey, more than 20 percent o f the labor force i s
unemployed (based on a methodology close to the I L O definition).



                                                  14

According to the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), about 17 percent o f households
whose family heads did not attend secondary school have a three times higher rate of poverty in
comparison with families whose heads have completed secondary education. Around 4.7 percent
o f young adults in Montenegro can be considered "educationally poor", meaning that they are
not attending school or have never attendedsecondary school (16-24 year olds).

The PRSP for Montenegro aims to reduce poverty while supporting the present market-
economy developmental orientation. Priorities are education, employment and small and
mediumenterprise (SME) development, health and social protection. The PRSP i s considered in
general sensible, if overly ambitious. The total costs are estimated at 439.8 million for the
three-year period from 2004-2006.                 These figures do not include all the proposed projects
directed at poverty reduction, but only those which represent high priority incremental
Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy (DPRS) expenditures.

Public and total education expenditures are high, but financially unsustainable. Education
spending represents 7.2 percent o f GDP or 22 percent o f total government spending, which i s
comparable to wealthier countries (as compared to 5.3 percent o f GDP in the United Kingdom,
7.4 percent in Estonia, and an average in OECD countries o f 5.9 percent). However, efficiency
problems are evident in the sector. Arrears in 2003 amounted to 10.1 million, which i s 12.5
percent o f the budget and there i s little money for quality-enhancing inputs like teacher training
or educational materials.            Pupil-teacher ratios, at 1:12.9 at pre-school, 1:15.7 at elementary
school and 1:13.9 at secondary school level are close to international averages (OECD mean o f
16.6:1 inprimary and 13.6:1 insecondary). Since 1999, the number o f pupils inprimary schools
has fallen by about 2 percent per year. The MOES reported that approximately 700 teaching
posts had been cut as pupil numbers continue to fall, and in the year 2004/5 new stricter norms
for non-teaching staff are beingimplemented.

PublicSpendingon Education

The level of education in Montenegro is pretty high; according to the 1991 Census, only 8.9
percent o f the population aged 15 or more i s without education, 16.3 percent with incomplete
primaryeducation, and those with only completed primary education are 29.5 percent. However,
the system has serious problems in delivering high quality education and in responding to labor
market needs. This i s despite relatively high education expenditures by international standards.
In 2003, the share of education expenditures in the total central Government budget was 22
percent and 7.2 percent in GDP,' which i s comparable to wealthier countries (5.3 percent inthe
UnitedKingdom, 7.4 percent in Estonia) and relatively highwhen compared to OECD average
of 5.9 percent. However, the composition o f expenditures is concerning. The share o f salary
expenses in total expenditures i s high; very little money goes for quality-enhancing inputs like
teacher training or education materials.




' This figure should be treated with some caution as the GDP is almost certainly significantly under-estimatedgiven the size of
the informalsector.


                                                            15

Compositionof EducationExpenditures
Overall, 76 percent o f the total education budget i s spent on salaries. However, the situation i s
significantly different when analyzing expenditures by separate consumption units o f the
education system. In terms o f general education (including primary and secondary education),
94.6 percent o f total recurrent expenditure i s spent on salaries, while only 5.4 percent o f total
recurrent expenditure i s spent on non-staff items. The OECD average for the share of non-staff
cost in the total recurrent expenditure i s 19.7 percent. Figure 1 shows some comparison across
OECD countries. The only country with the similar share to Montenegro i s Mexico.

                     Figure 1: Structureof Expenditurein GeneralEducation


                          Structure of expenditure in general education




                                      UK
                   MontenegroOECD       Czech RepPoIanjjrgentingreeceMexico




Problemsin TrackingEducationExpenditures

Compensations. Major operational expenses, such as utilities, are often covered through non-
cash annulling of the mutual liabilities exercised between the central budget and individual
providers.   In practice, it means that the government makes an agreement with, say, a fuel
provider that it would be relieved from paying social insurance contributions for its employees
and inexchange, schools would not have to pay for their incurred fuel expenses. These costs o f
running the education system do not go through Treasury and therefore do not appear in the
education budget. According to the findings o f the MOES consultants working under the PHRD
funds, compensation payments were around 3.9 million in 2003, or 5 percent o f the executed
budget. It is important to note that, such a systemcould not be continued if such costs were to be
decentralized to municipalities or schools, which can not offer similar compensation deals.

Arrears. This is a persistent feature o f state budgeting. Each year, the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) plans a higher public sector budget than the actual inflow o f revenues. There appear to
be several reasons for this including unrealistic budget formulation and poor tax collection. As
the MOES incurs liabilities inaccordance with the budget plan, it creates arrears. The following
year, the MOES has first to pay off the arrears before making any new commitments and it
usually finances the arrears from the current budget. Inthis way, new arrears in the current year


                                                  16

are generated that roll over to the next year and the vicious cycle continues. According to
available data, the arrears are being gathered mainly in salary expenses and contributions for
social insurance. However, the share o f operational expenses i s significant as well and probably
underestimated due to the compensation practices.

Consultants working for the Government under the PHRD funds have established that arrears in
2003 amounted to 10.1 million, which i s 12.5 percent o f the budget. These are declining, but
only slowly. It was agreed that a multi-year plan needs to be developed by the MOES for paying
off the arrears, and that this should include support provided through the proposed Bank
adjustment operation inC Y 2006.2

There are serious deficiencies in infrastructure, with almost all the schools operating in
double shifts and some, principally in the cities, in triple shifts. There has been little upgrading
o f buildings or equipment inthe last ten years, a period that has included economic crises. Due
to the process o f internal immigration to bigger cities, the number o f pupils has decreased inthe
poor rural areas in the north o f the Republic, creating a problem o f maintaining relatively large
number of facilities for very small numbers of children. The MOES uses 612 school facilities,
but has a further 153 facilities in poor rural areas, where teaching is not taking place anymore
due to the lack of students. There are 16 schools inthe country with less than 30 pupils.

Access to learning opportunities is generally good. The percentage o f participation in pre-
school education in Montenegro i s relatively low (22 percent) (compared to 73 percent in
Romania, 75 percent in Slovenia, and an OECD average o f 68 percent) due to poor services and
insufficient number o f facilities. The enrolment rate in primary school (children between 7-14
years o f age) was almost 97 percent in 2002. The Millennium Development Goal (MDG) 2
(`achieve universal basic education') i s therefore expected to be met, as i s the education MDG 3
(`gender equality in elementary and secondary education') as girls represent 49.6 percent o f
pupils incompulsory education).

In secondary education, a very high proportion of students (approximately 75 percent) are in
vocational or technical education programs. This i s likely to be the main explanation for the
poor labor market outcomes.                 In fact, secondary education graduates have higher levels of
unemployment than primary education graduates. Overall enrolment rate i s between 85 and 90
percent.

There are around 11,000 students enrolled in tertiary education at the various autonomous
Faculties o f the University o f Montenegro. Females account for 56 percent o f total enrolments.

The enrolment rate is much lower in ethnic minority groups, especially among the Roma,
Ashkaelia and Egyptian (RAE) ethnic group which forms 3.3 percent o f the total population in
Montenegro. It i s generally accepted that there i s a high dropout o f Roma following initial entry
into primary education, though no hard data. The rate o f illiteracy among the adult RAE


'.  According to statements of school directors interviewed during the WB missions, some of the non-staff expenditures
(including teaching materials and other operational expenses) are coveredthrough donations from parentsand local communities.
In addition, contributions from international agencies and donors are not recorded in budgetary statistics. The amounts raised
through these informal initiatives are unknown, so is their percentage intotal education expenditures.


                                                                17

population i s 76 percent, while the illiteracy among the general adult population amounts to only
6 percent. The Government has been active in the preparation o f the Action Plan for Roma
Decade Inclusion, which contains plans to (1) develop a reliable database on Roma children; (2)
motivate Roma children to enroll and stay in the education system; and (3) assure access to
learning process, through providing learning materials and additional learning space.

Labor market outcomes are poor and low quality inputs suggest that student learning
outcomes are poor, although reliable measures of student achievement do not exist. Inputs into
the learning process are o f generally poor quality. Teachers, the key input, are paid somewhat
better than in other countries in the region but salaries are very low in relation to the living
expenses especially in urban areas. The average monthly salary o f a teacher i s 240, while a
teacher at the University o f Montenegro earns an average o f 350 per month. However, a
consumer basket consisting o f basic food staff for family o f four was 254 in September 2004.
Teacher salaries are not linked to performance. Learning materials and equipment are o f poor
quality, and information and communication technology (ICT) i s available at some schools
(though hard data i s not available).

Approaches to teaching and learning are outdated, with no effective professional
development system to address these deficiencies. Teacher pre-service education includes
limited modern teaching methods and contains little teaching practice - the teacher students only
observe the teaching delivered at few training schools in Cetinje, Niksic and Podgrorica.
Training programmes/courses like Active Learning and Step by Step have been carried out in
previous years with international funding (UNICEF, FOSI, and Save the Children UK).

The Government of Montenegro initiated a major education reforminmid-1999, which has
since been formulated into a `Book o f Changes' in 2001.          This reform agenda has drawn
extensively on international experience and i s well-designed (though there are some issues about
its costs, see below).   The general aim of the reform is to provide education that promotes
development, supports inclusiveness and participation, meets individual needs, provides
individuals with the opportunities for freedom o f thought, and provides a basis o f the
development o f youth and adults who respect human rights, the legal state, democracy and
tolerance. The Government has also developed Action Plans for Children and for Roma, which
have a central role for education and which include clear and measurable indicators (built around
the MDGs).

New legislation has been approved and implementation is underway. The plans include the
extension o f compulsory primary educationto nine years by including six-year olds into primary
education with corresponding reform o f curricula at all levels o f education. The new curricula
for all levels up to the university have been drafted and the majority o f these curricula for the
new first grade o f elementary school have been approved.             The reforms, including the
implementation o f the new curricula, were started in 20 pilot elementary schools from all over
the Republic (there are 161 main elementary schools in Montenegro, with 300 satellite units).
These schools started with the new first grade curricula at the beginning o f school year
2004/2005. Twenty-seven elementary schools have beenselected for next school year.




                                                 18

                                                                              NUMBEROF TITLES




~




 The aim i s also to increase enrolment to 100percent by the year 2010, amongst other things, by
 improving educational opportunities o f the children o f poor families, ethnic groups and children
 with special needs.     There are also comprehensive plans to introduce ICT into schools in
 Montenegro for which the Government has taken out a commercial loan.

 However, the Government's reform is threatened by several factors.                        First, the
 Government's intention to partly decentralize educational financing, but without a broader
 restructuring of education functions, is not likely to be effective. Under the Government's
 proposals, which were consulted on in 2004, teachers' salaries and part o f the expenses for
 materials would be provided from the state budget. The remaining part o f the funding for the
 material expenses o f schools as well as part o f maintenance and investments in school facilities
 will be provided from the budgets o f the local governments. However, while the MOES would
 like to decentralize responsibility for schools' non-staff costs to municipalities to solve the
 problem o f schools having insufficient revenues, the municipalities would like to avoid taking on
 additional burdenfor which they consider they do not have adequate resources. These proposals
 are currently being reconsidered within the government because o f the (adverse) comments
 received during the consultations. Educational finance decentralization to municipalities can be
 effective where they have sufficient schools, and therefore sufficient budget, combined with the
 technical knowledge to support schools in improving educational quality.               Equitable and
 transparent financing arrangements are also needed between the central and local administration.
 Given the small number o f schools in Montenegro and that there are 21 municipalities, it is not
 clear that these conditions can be fulfilled.         This is not to deny that some form of
 decentralization, for example, by giving schools greater control over their budgets might not be
 beneficial. These issues are to be clarified inthe public debate and consultations.

 Second, the capacity for strategic planning, budgeting, managing and monitoring the system
 remainsweak and so is the capability to implement the ambitious reform. The challenge i s
 to turn reform principles and new legislation into strategies and action plans. The reform calls
 for a significant capacity building o f current staff at educational institutions at the central level,
 local governments and schools. As importantly, the high level o f arrears and lack o f non-salary
 expendituremakes any reform fragile and unlikely to be sustained; butthe Government's reform
 agenda does not tackle these issues head on. In particular, the current cost o f reform schools
 means that expansion o f the reform to all schools requires tackling the budget structure.




                                                  19

At the central level, institutional re-organization has been initiated.    The MOES has been
restructured to perform roles mainly related to policy-making, co-ordination, financing and
international co-operation in education. Two central institutions have been formed: one for
general education (BES) and one for vocational education (Centre for Vocational Education).
Along with these, three advisory bodies have been formed: the Councils for General Education,
for Vocational Education and Training, and for Adult Education, logistic for which i s provided
by these two institutions.    Many employees who were in the education inspectorate have
transferred from the MOES to these institutions. The BES still hosts an examination center,
which i s planned to become independent in 2005, pending government approval and budget
allocation. These central professional organizations are considered to be of key importance in
the implementationo fthe reform and inthe quality assessmentand assurance of education inthe
future. For example, the BESwill have the leading role indeveloping and organizing teacher in-
service training, and in 2004, has organized training on new first year curricula for the 20 pilot
schools, However, their experience i s limited and significant capacity buildingi s needed.

Third, the current structure of secondary education, with its very high proportion of
students in vocational and technical courses needs a significant overhaul. This means
modernizing VET courses and teaching practices, by broadening curricular and increasing
general education content; but probably also shifting more students into general education, to
promote improvements in relevance and affordability. These trends are observed across the
European Union. As yet, however, the Government has not planned to tackle this issue. The
European Agency for Reconstruction (EAR) has just awarded a contract for a project in VET,
but this does not tackle the overall balance insecondary education.

A number of other donors and international agencies are becoming active in the education
sector. The Governments o f Finland and Canada have expressed an interest inteacher education
and capacity building o f the central agencies and Ministry, areas where UNICEF and OS1 are
active. The Government o f Finland i s also interested ininclusive education.




                                                20

          Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
                  SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO: MontenegroEducationReform

               SectorIssue                          Project                        jn(PSR)Ratings I
I                                                                                  iprojectonly)
                                                                     Implementation
                                                                     Progress (IP)
 Will likely address budget planning      DevelopmentPolicy Credit 3
 and arrears inall the sectors, including       DPL (FY07)
 education.                                  (US$ lO-22 million)
                                               Status: proposed

 Preparationof Montenegro Education              PHRD grant
 ReformProject                                     ($379,555
                                                Status: Active

 Capacity building inthe MOES and
 the BES relatedto inclusive education;          (eFINLAND
                                                    2 million)
 Teacher training related to education     Status: Under preparation
 of children with specialneeds.                   (2.5 years)

 Capacity building inthe MOES and                    CIDA
 the BES;Teachers education.                    ( 0.5 million)
                                                Status: Active

 Capacity building of central
 institutions across public sector,          FOSIROM-UNDP
 including education.                           Status: Active




 Decentralisation- supporting
 legislative changes relevant for local
 self-governanceand financing of local     USAID-Urban Institute
 governments; support to local                  Status: Active
 governance

1Has supportedthe integration o f        I
 children-withspecialneeds into
 mainstreameducationenvironment.           Save the Children U.K.


 KULTUR KONTAKT                                    ECO NET




                                                        21

                             Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkand Monitoring
                 SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO: MontenegroEducationReform

                                           ResultsFramework

                 PDO                        Outcome Indicators              Use of Outcome Information
To strengthenthe capacity of the     At least 70% ofteachers are
:ducation system to make             observedto be using the skills and
:ontinuous improvements, especially knowledge learntthrough training
inthe quality ofteaching and         provided under the Project
learninginschools and inthe
:fficient use of budgetary resources Eliminationof education arrears and
                                     increase innon-salarycurrent
                                     expenditure from the State Budget to
                                     15% oftotal government spending
                                     on primary and secondary education
       IntermediateResults             ResultsIndicatorsfor Each              Use of ResultsMonitoring
       One per Component                         Component
ComponentOne:                        Component One:                        ComponentOne:
Educationquality inreform schools    Eachyear, ina sample of               Delays inthe process might happen
increases                            participating schools, the proportion at severalpoints and indicate needto
                                     of students observedto have           strengthensupply chain
                                     textbooks inclass exceeds 90%

                                     Eachyear, less than 10% of minority   Adjustments made to Support
                                     andpoor students report having        Scheme
                                     difficulty payingfor textbooks

                                     Renovation of schools and delivery    Adjustments made to procurement
                                     of equipment to all participating     schedule
                                     schools is completedbefore the start
                                     of each school year

                                     Reportspublished annually from        Quality of evaluation may not be
                                     school quality assuranceprogram       sufficient or there may be needto
                                     andnational assessments identify      strengthencapacity ofpolicy makers
                                     adjustmentsneededto reform            to use results
                                     process
Component Two:                       Component Two:                        ComponentTwo:
Reform implementedineffective        Eachyear, the MOES and BES            Adjustlfocus this aspect of capacity
and sustainable way                  programbudgets are provided to the    building activities and/or revised
                                     MinistryofFinanceontime and           regulatory framework
                                     having beenpreparedinaccordance
                                     with instructions, following
                                     consultationswith international
                                     agencies active inthe education
                                     sector

                                     Satisfactoryprogress is made in       Interaction with Adjustment
                                     implementing the planto eliminate     Operation strengthenediftargets are
                                     arrears, which is agreed with the     missed
                                     Ministry of Financeand adjusted
                                     annually by 1 January




                                                       22

              e,
             0

             .-G
             5

             cr
             Lr.
             0




                     5
                     e,    G
                           e,




.-
 p.
 E
 L

                                   gx
.e
cC
ie                                  rd
                                   8
c
cc                                  5

e:
 2                                3




SEL                o\         -7
cV
 EE    s          0     s3
 :     N     2    s
                   o\     V


 E
 A                g           -
 L     se-                    a
 L           u.    u.
4
       sr-        s
                  0      2     3
             I-   u.     v s

                              Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
               SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO: MontenegroEducationReform

The Project has two components which target key priorities for effectively implementing the
Government's education reform program and which are complementary to activities supported
by other donors.

Component 1: ReformImplementation (estimated $3.8 million from Credit funds).

Under this component, support will be provided to extend the number o f primary and general
secondary schools included in the Government's reform program. About 50 schools, additional
to those being funded by the Government, will be supported from the Credit. The Project will
pay for the various parts o f the package o f interventions that reform schools receive, such as
textbooks and learning materials, staff professional development, school equipment, and minor
renovations (such as repairing roofs, heating, water and sewerage systems, windows, painting,
making rooms more secure, etc.). The existing institutions will be used: the BES will be used to
organize teacher and school director training, the MOES will be responsible for determining and
meeting the equipment and renovation needs o f schools, the Textbook Department will oversee
textbook development and, when established, the Examination Center will develop the
assessments.

It is estimated that for the first 20 reform schools, an average o f approximately $60,000 per
school has been spent on training, textbooks, new furniture and other equipment, and minor
renovations (see Annex 9 for more details). If these unit costs are applicable to the remaining
schools inMontenegro, then it i s unlikely that the Government could afford to include all schools
in the reform.      Therefore, it has been agreed with the Government that a rigorous and
comprehensive review o f the reform school experience, including the financial cost, will be done
as soon as the evaluation to be conducted by BES i s available (expected inMay 2005).

It was agreed that it i s important each year to have a selection o f schools that represents the
diversity o f Montenegrin schools. Inthe first set o f 20 schools, a good geographic representation
was achieved, though only schools with good basic infrastructure were included. The 25 schools
to be included from September 2005 will also be geographically distributed and include four
schools with large Albanian populations.       Each year after that, at least two schools with
significant minority populations will be included.

Minor Repairs and School Equipment. The MOES will organize the carrying out minor repairs
necessary for reform implementation, such as repairing roofs, heating, water and sewerage
systems, windows, painting, making rooms more secure, etc. A standard package o f school
furniture and equipment, based on the number o f pupils, will be developed and centrally
procured. This package will include learning materials not provided through the textbook part o f
the Project, to include suchthings as reference materials, atlases, posters and so on.

Textbooks and Learning Materials. The Project will support the development costs o f textbooks
and other learning materials for the new general education curriculum, including in minority
languages and for children with special needs.



                                                 24

The Project will finance the printingand distribution costs to the most disadvantaged groups; the
Government will finance these costs for others. It i s estimated that 50,000 books will be needed
for disadvantaged groups to cover all curriculum subjects and grades.

The Project will ensure that books are available in minority languages and for disadvantaged
groups, either through direct purchasing o f books for parents, a book rental scheme, promoting a
used book market, and/or supplying school libraries with books. Technical assistance will be
provided, through the PHRD Project Preparation Grant, to advise the MOES and the Textbook
Department on such arrangements. The Government (MOES and Ministry o f Labor and Social
Affairs) will agree with the Association on these arrangements, and provide each year a report
showing the affordability and sustainability o f the scheme.

School Staff Professional Development. Training will be given to teachers and directors in
schools implementingthe new curriculum. Since the Government intends all schools to become
reform schools by the end o f the Project, all teachers inMontenegro will have beentrained. The
Project will support a sustainable approach to continuous professional development aimed
toward creation o f school-based approach and based on clearly defined standards. The focus o f
professional development among school staff will include improving the schools' capacities to
operate as communities o f learners. The Project will prepare experts capable o f working with
and in schools to lead their development processes. The training will be organized by the BES.
Finally, the Project will assist the MOES to pilot a `promoted posts' scheme, to recognize the
extra skills and knowledge o f expert teachers.

National Assessment and Evaluation.          The Project will build the capacity o f the new
Examination Center to develop and carry out grade 6 assessments in subjects defined by the
General Law on Education.         This will enable reliable data to be gathered about student
achievements.     The Foundation Open Society Institute- Representative Office Montenegro
(FOSI-ROM) will support the implementation o f the grade 3 assessment, while the Project will
support the grade 6 assessment. It will be necessary to ensure that the Centre has the capacity (in
terms of the number of people and their skills) to do both assessments at the same time. The
Examination Center has developed a Strategic Plan, which will need to be converted into more
detailed annual work plans; and the Project will assist with this process and then help implement
it. The Project will fund Montenegro's participation in PISA 2006 and 2009 and will help the
BES to implementits plans for school self-evaluation which will enable comparisons to be made
betweenreform and non-reform schools.

Creditproceeds willpayfor consultant services (authors, illustrators, designers, proofreaders and
translators for textbook development, implementation of the textbook rental scheme, teacher
training system design, trainer fees, evaluation o f reform, national assessment development, civil
works design and supervision, the promoted posts pilot and project audit). Credit proceeds will
also pay for printingand distribution o f books, materials for students, for teachers and for student
assessment, for license fees for and purchase o f foreign textbooks and learning materials, for
school office and IT equipment, and for logistical costs o f training and workshops. There will
also be provision for PISA participation costs and for study tours for key technical staff.




                                                  25

Retroactive financing will pay for activities needed to prepare schools for the 2005 school year:
viz., the development o f textbooks, textbook licenses and teacher training. Total retroactive
financing will be approximately $160,000.

Component 2. Education Planning; and Finance (estimated $1.2 million from Credit funds).

There are a number o f distinct, but connected issues in education finance, which this component
will support. The central concern remains the lack o f non-salary expenditures (only 5 percent o f
the budget, compared to 17 percent in OECD countries), caused by many small schools,
unsustainable and inflexible staffing levels, and chronic arrears. However, there i s no room in
the Government's budgetprojects for overall growth ineducation expenditure.

The Project will helpthe Government addressthese issues inseveral ways:
        0  Buildcapacity to prepare, execute andmonitor aprogram budget;
        0  Support the Strategy and Planning Unit to plan and implement the reform more
           effectively;
        0   Support the optimization o f the school network and staffing levels to restructure the
           budget; and
           Assist the Government to determine an effective plan for decentralization o f
           education finance.

A Strategy and Planning Unithas beencreated and will be the focus o f capacity building efforts.
This Unit consists o f key staff from the MOES, BES, the Examination Center, the VET Centre,
and the Textbook Department.

An institutionalassessment o f this Unit and the various agencies was conductedinJanuary 2005,
to identify the capacity building needs.      This assessment was carried out jointly by the
Government, the Bank, CIDA and the Ministry o f Foreign Affairs in Finland. An initial task o f
this Unit will be to develop a two-year strategy for the MOES. These activities will enable an
action planto be developed, which incorporates the following four considerations: (i)   conducting
the analytical work that is currently lacking but essential for future reforms; (ii)reinforcing
institutions (new and old) in physical and technical terms; (iii)     developing and implementing
concrete policies and reforms as a means for institutional capacity building; and (iv) tracing a
truly systemic reform that could be incorporated into the social sector adjustment effort that will
be developed.

Budget Restructuring. In the first year o f the Project, emphasis will be on helping the MOES
and BES institutions become more effective at meeting the new programme budgeting and the
MediumTerm Expenditure Framework requirements and to develop a mediumterm action plan
for eliminating arrears in education (as part o f the preparation o f the forthcoming Programmatic
Development Policy Loan).       Each subsequent year in October, as part o f the State budget
preparation cycle, the MOES and BES will prepare a plan for implementation o f the reform and
agency capacity building. This plan will include activities to be funded from the Credit in the
following year, with benchmarks for implementationprogress. This planwill be agreed with the
Bank, and the Government will update the procurement plan accordingly.




                                                 26

Facilitating School Data Collection. The MOES has recently enhanced its collection o f data
from schools. A consultant under the PHRD grant will advise the MOES on how to ensure that
the data gathered will enable indicators to be easily developed and are consistent with
international methods (Le., comparable to the OECD Education at a Glance and for measuring
progress towards the Millennium Development Goals). The MOES now plans to digitize the
data collection process from schools, and has contracted with a company to develop the software
for this. The Project will purchase the computers neededby schools to enter the data and submit
to the MOES, as well as use the data for school management purposes.

Education Finance Decentralization. This component will support the MOES,the Ministry o f
Finance and municipalities to identify the options, pilot, and then implement decentralization in
the education sector to schools and municipalities. The exact shape ofthis decentralization is not
clear, but the Government i s committed to pursuingdecentralization o f some form. Training will
be provided to staff in schools and to budget staff inthe MOES, the MOF and, on average, three
staff ineach o f the 21municipalities.

Credit proceeds will pay for IT equipment for schools, for training, for media services, and for
consultant services in strategic planning and reform and in the design and implementation o f
decentralization.




                                                27

                              Annex 5: ProjectCosts
            SERBIAAND MONTENEGRO:MontenegroEducationReform


ProjectCost By Component and/or Activity        Local    Foreign  Total
                                                 US$      US$      US$
                                                million  million  Million
Reform Implementation                             3.29    0.51     3.80
Education Planning and Finance                    0.82    0.38     1.20

Total Baseline Cost                              4.11     0.89     5.OO

               TotalProjectCosts                 4.11     0.89     5.00

            TotalFinancingRequired                4.11    0.89     5.00




                                       28

                             Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
               SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO: MontenegroEducationReform

The Project will be implementedover a period o f four years, starting 1 July 2005. There will be
some retroactive financing for those activities needed to prepare schools which are starting the
reform in September 2005.

The MOES, the BES, and, when established as an independent unit, the Examination Center will
be the implementing agencies for the Project. All these agencies are governmental public bodies.
Each agency will carry out those activities under the Project that it currently performs with State
budget or other funds. The MOES will implement the budgetary reforms, decentralization
activities, and the renovation and equipping o f schools. The BES will organize the teacher and
school director training and school evaluation activities, and the Examination Center will be
responsible for developing the new grade 6 assessment and PISA 2009.                The Textbook
Department will manage the process o f textbook development (as currently occurs with state
procurement).

Coordination between these various agencies and the MOES will be assured through their
representation in the SPU.       It was agreed that there was no need for a separate Project
Management Unit. The SPU will have overall responsibility for planning, budgeting, and
monitoring and evaluation, as well as for coordinating donor projects and reporting to the Bank
on Project progress. Membership o f the SPU i s from the MOES, BES, Centre for VET, the
Examination Center (when established), and the Textbook Department.

The Minister o f Education and Science will chair a meeting o f the Education Reform Steering
Committee every six months, consisting o f the heads o f the implementing agencies and with
donor agency representation. At these meetings, overall policy and key activities for the next
period, and their cost and funding, will be agreed. A single report will summarize progress o f
and future activities for all donor agencies.

The G O M recently established a central Technical Services Unit (TSU), responsible for carrying
out core procurement and financial management functions for all Bank-financed projects, and
potentially for other donor-supported projects.       The TSU, which i s currently managing
transaction processing for the Health System Improvement Project and the Pensions System
Administration Investment Project, has TORS that clearly define its duties and its interactions
with other members of the implementation team. The TSU has a Director, a procurement officer
and a finance officer, and funding for the TSU i s provided from the Health Project Credit. The
majority o f disbursement processing and accounting will utilize and rely upon existing MOES,
BES and Treasury systems, and hence, the TSU's involvement adds an additional layer of
fiduciary assurance.




                                                29

              Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
               SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO: MontenegroEducationReform

CountryIssues

The SAM CFAA report notes that there are a number of risks on the management ofpublic funds
in SAM. The risks to the public funds include: (a) poor public sector financial management in
the past; (b) unfinished reforms - the new governments that were elected have commenced a
process o f major reform, which looks good as designed, but it i s still too early to say if the
reforms will be totally successful; (c) capacity constraints in both the State Union and Republic
governments; (d) weak banking sectors; (e) weak audit capacity; (f) poor implementation
capacity in line ministries; and (g) the lack o f recent Bank implementation experiences within
SAM. Since re-joining the membership o f the World Bank, SAM has been using individual
traditional implementation units for each investment project, located within the relevant line
ministriesor project beneficiaries, to mitigate some ofthese risks.

Duringthe period since the CFAA was published,the number o f commercial banks assessed as
acceptable to hold Special Accounts has increased from 3 to 5 and the number o f firms assessed
as acceptable to audit Bank-financed projects has increased from 2 to 4, indicating an
improvement inthe fiduciary environment. Experience in implementing Bank-financed projects
i s increasing but the lendingportfolio i s still too young to be able to conclude that the G O M has
a thorough understanding o f Bank operations.

StrengthsandWeaknesses

The Technical Services Unit (TSU), responsible for carrying out core procurement and financial
management functions for all Bank-financed projects, and potentially for other donor-supported
projects will be managingtransactionprocessing for the Project.

The staff o f the TSU has some prior experience o f Bank procedures, though this remains limited
at this time. The coordination between the TSU and the line ministries to which it provides
services has, to date, been less than ideal, though significantly better in education.         These
relations should improve as all parties become more familiar with their respective roles within
each o f the projects. Project financial accounts will be prepared directly from the Treasury SAP
system with additional schedules, a cash forecast and procurement reports, prepared by the TSU;
data held in SAP and separately by the TSU, Special Account cash balance for example, will be
reconciledby the TSU.

FundsFlow
The IDA will make funds available to SAM under a Credit Agreement, governing the terms and
conditions o f the IDA credit and specifying the Project. SAM will on-lend the funds on IDA
terms to the Republic o f Montenegro based on a Subsidiary Credit Agreement with terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA.

The Sub-credit Agreement between SAM and GOM is a condition o f effectiveness o f the
Development Credit Agreement.


                                                    30

A Special Account (SA) will be opened by the MOF on behalf of the Project in a bank
acceptable to the IDA. Project expenditures have been fully budgetedby the MOES for the first
year. Activities related to BES operations and textbooks will also be funded from the MOES in
the first year, but in subsequent years, these funds will be available in the BES budget. All
payments will be made through the Treasury system. When a supplier payment falls due, the
requisite amount o f Bank funds, sitting inthe Special Account, will be deposited into an account
o f the Treasury, and a single payment will be made to the supplier. Bank funds will be mingled
with counterpart funds for not more than one business day. The TSU will monitor the period
between submission o f payment requests, transfer o f funds from the SA and final settlement o f
supplier invoices.

Staffingof the AccountingRJinanceFunction

The MOES has a small accounting and finance function (8 staff) headed by an experienced chief
accountant.    The BES has a single accountant responsible for checking the validity of
documentation and for maintaining the organization's accounting records - the accountant can
neither initiate nor approve any expenditures. The TSU has a single finance officer who reports
directly to the TSU Director; this i s adequate given the limited volume o f transactions currently
being processed. However, with the number o f projects under implementation expected to
increase in the near future and with tasks previously carried out by the implementation units
(within the respective line ministries) being transferred to the TSU, the TSU may need to add
another finance officer in the near future; sufficient funds are available under the Health Project
to engage additional TSU staff as necessary.

AccountingPoliciesandProcedures

As part o f the preparation for the Health and Pensions projects, an operations manual was
prepared by the TSU and approved by the Bank.            With only minor changes, this manual
describes the operations, procedures and policies inrespect o f the EducationReform Project.

The Treasury will prepare Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) on the cash basis. Additional
accounts have been added to the Treasury general ledger in order to facilitate the production o f
FMRs and training has been provided to the staff o f the existing projects to ensure that
expenditures are properly coded.

ReportingandMonitoring

The TSU will prepare FMRson a quarterly basis, which will include:

     0   Project Sources and Uses o f Funds
     0   Uses o f Funds by Project Activity
     0   Special Account Statement
     0   Forecast o f expenditures for the following two quarters
     0   Procurement report




                                                  31

The first FMR will be furnished to the IDA not later than 45 days after the end o f the first
calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and will cover the period from the Effective Date to the
end o f the first calendar quarter. If information is available, this first FMR will also include
reimbursementfor retroactive financing and eligible activities carried out between Credit signing
and effectiveness.    The FMR formats have been agreed with the TSU and included in the
operations manual.

InformationSystems

The Treasury department o f the MOF operates an SAP based accounting system (budget,
treasury and general ledger modules). The Treasury IT support group has amended the general
ledger so that from January 2005, in addition to its existing functionality, the accounting system
i s now capable o f tracking "sources o f funds" and other information required to be provided to
the Bank.

The TSU i s also maintaining a parallel set o f "project only" financial records using an off-the-
shelf, integrated accounting software package, for the Health and Pensions projects. Provided
that the reports produced from SAP are acceptable to the Bank and the information generated
from both systems reconciles for the first two quarters o f 2005, the TSU will henceforth cease to
maintain parallel accounting records. Thus, by the time the Project becomes Effective, it i s
anticipated that all accounting records will be maintained on the SAP system alone.

ExternalAudit

The Director o f the TSU will be responsible for ensuringthat the project financial statements are
audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the IDA, in accordance with standards on
auditing that are acceptable to the IDA. TORSfor the audit o f the project financial statements, in
accordance with International Standards on Auditing, are included in the TSU operations
manual, as i s the list o f auditors that have been unconditionally pre-qualified to audit IDA-
funded projects in SAM. The cost ofthe audit will be financed from the proceeds ofthe Credit.

An audit report covering the Project, the quarterly FMRsand Special Account will be requiredto
be submitted by the Borrower within five months o f the end o f each fiscal year and also at the
closing o f the Project.

DisbursementArrangements

The project is expected to be implementedover a period o f 4% years, which includes six months
for the completion o f accounts and the submissiono f withdrawal applications.




                                                32

             Category             Amount of the Credit Allocated     % of Expendituresto be
                                         Exwessedin SDR                     Financed

 (1) Goods, works, consultants'               3,300,000                       100%
     services, including auditing
     and training

 TOTAL                                        3.300.000


Disbursementsfrom the IDA credit will follow the report-based method, Le., the MOES and the
BES will use FMRs to support applications for withdrawal from the Credit Account; they will
not provide the Bank with a detailed list o f expenditures. Should the IDA determine at any time
that the FMRs are not adequate to support the disbursementprocess, it reserves the right to revert
to the traditional (SOEs, summary sheets, etc.) disbursementmethodology.

To facilitate timely project implementation, the MOF (Treasury) will establish, maintain and
operate a single Special Account in Euro under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Upon receipt o f each application for withdrawal o f an amount o f the Credit, the Bank shall, on
behalf o f the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank
has determined, based on the FMRs, i s required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such reports. The TSU will
monitor the period between submission o f payment requests, transfer o f funds from the Special
Account and final settlement o f supplier invoices.

Financial Covenants

The Republic o f Montenegro shall maintain a financial management system, including records
and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources
and expendituresrelated to the Project.

The Republic o f Montenegro shall:

(i)havethefinancialstatements for eachfiscalyear audited, inaccordancewithconsistently
      applied auditing standards, by independentauditors;
(ii)furnish to the Association certified copies of the annual financial statements and an
      auditor's opinion thereon; and
(iii)furnishto the Association suchother financial informationasthe Associationmayfrom
      time to time reasonably request.

For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on
the basis of FMRs(Report-based Disbursements), the Republic of Montenegro shall:




                                                 33

(i)year
    retain, until at least one year after the Association has receivedthe audit report for the fiscal
          inwhichthe last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records evidencing
     such expenditures;
(ii)enabletheAssociation'srepresentativestoexaminesuchrecords;and
(iii)ensurethat suchreports andstatementsofexpenditure areincludedinthe audit for each
     fiscal year o f this Section.

The Republic o f Montenegro shall prepare and furnish to the Association financial monitoring
reports which:

(i)setforthsourcesandusesoffundsfortheProject,showingseparatelyfundsprovidedunder
    the Credit, and explains variances betweenthe actual andplanned uses of such funds;
(ii)set forth the     Special Account for the Project, showing the period opening balance,
    movements duringthe period and the period closing balance;
(iii)setforththestatusofprocurementundertheProject,asattheendoftheperiodcoveredby
     said report; and
(iv) set forth the projected expenditures during the next quarter and the following quarter and
     states the amount o f such expenditures to be financed by the Association.

The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after the
end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the
incurrence o f the first   expenditure under the Project through the end o f such first calendar
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty five (45)
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.




                                                 34

                                Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
                SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO: MontenegroEducationReform

General

Procurement for the Project will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated inthe Credit Agreement. For each contract to be financed by
the Credit, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for
prequalification, and time frame are agreed betweenthe G O M and the Bank project team in the
Procurement Plan dated February 22, 2004.          Packages to be procured under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures are included in Table A. The Procurement Plan will be
updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements in institutional capacity. Other procurement information, including IDA'Sreview
process etc. i s presentedinTable B 1 and Table B2.

The Project will be financed from the proceeds o fthe SDR 3.3 million Credit.

1. Procurementof Goods andTechnicalServices

Goods and related services financed by the Credit consist o f IT equipment, textbooks, school
supplies and office equipment, etc. Major equipment contracts will include the delivery of
incidental services including installation, commissioning and training o f recipients in their use
and maintenance.       Goods will be grouped to the extent possible and considering project
objectives, in package sizes that will encourage competitive bidding. The following methods o f
procurement will be followed:

        (0       InternationalCompetitiveBidding(ICB) procedures will be used for contracts
                 above US$lOO,OOO equivalent for the procurement o f IT equipment and contracts
                 to cost equivalent o f US$lOO,OOO or above. Bid documentation for ICB will be
                 prepared in accordance with the latest version o f Bank Standard Bidding
                 Document (SBD).

        (ii) Shopping: Thisprocedurewillbeusedfor off-the-shelfgoodsestimatedto cost
                 less than US$lOO,OOO    per contract. Shopping, which requires obtaining three
                 quotations, i s usedhere because more competitive methods are notjustified on the
                 basis o f cost or efficiency.  The ECA Regional sample format for shopping
                 "Invitation to Quote" available on the ECA Procurement Web Site will be
                 applied.

        (iii) DirectContracting(DC) willbeusedfollowingtheprocurementplanafterprior
                 consultation and agreement with IDA. The procurement o f such items may be
                 procured through D C procedure.




                                                 35

2. Procurementof Works

Civil works financed by the Credit consists o f small repair works for school refurbishment. The
civil works shall be packaged to the extent possible to be tendered under N C B in order to
increase competition. The following methods o f procurement will be used:

       (i)    National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be used for contracts
              below US$lOO,OOO equivalent. The ECA regional Standard Bidding Documents
               (SBD) for NCB for works will be used and the conditions applicable for
               conducting N C B procurement attached to the Credit Agreement will be followed.

       (ii)    Shopping (Minor Works) procedures will be used for contracts less than
              US$lOO,OOO equivalent, when more competitive methods are not justified on the
              basis o f cost or efficiency. Shopping will require obtaining three quotations. The
              ECA Regional sample format for Minor Works "Invitation to Quote" available on
              the ECA Procurement Web Site will be applied.

3. Selectionof ConsultingServices

Contracts shall be packaged for consulting services from firms and individuals requiredunder
the Project. Shortlists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
per contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants inaccordance with the provisions
o fparagraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines. The procurement methods will be used:

               Quality and Cost-based Selection (QCBS) procedures will be used for
               contracting consultant services with firms for contracts above US$200,000.

               ConsultantQualificationprocedures will be used for contracting most qualified
               firms with contracts under US$200,000.

               Least Cost Selection procedures will be used for contracting the financial audit
               services. The shortlist shall consist o f firms acceptable for the Bank-financed
               projects.

               Individual Consultants will be hired in accordance with Section V of the
               Guidelines. Individual consultants will be hired for small assignments of short-
               term duration for consulting services to meet the requirements o f the IDA Credit.

               Single Source(for firms)/sole source (for IC) procedures will be usedfollowing
               the procurement planafter prior consultationand agreement with IDA.




                                                 36

4. Training

Expenses not covered under Paragraph 3 above, but to be used for training, workshops and study
tours under the Project will be funded based on terms o f reference and budgets satisfactory to
IDA, andthe MOES shall adopt a semi-annual training plan satisfactory to IDA.

5. Notificationof BusinessOpportunities

A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be publishedinthe UN "Development Business"on-
line (UNDB-online) and in the Development Gateway's dgMarket around the period o f Credit
Negotiation. For ICB goods and works contracts and large-value consultants contracts (more
than US$200,000), Specific Procurement Notice will be advertised inthe Development Business
on -line (UNDB-online) and in the Development Gateway's dgMarket and national press, and in
the case o fNCB, ina major local newspaper (inthe national language).

6. Review by the IDA of ProcurementPlan

The initial Procurement Plan for the project dated February 22, 2005 and the terms o f reference
(TOR) for updating it has been agreed between the G O M and the World Bank at negotiations.
The initial Plan covers the details o fthe first 18 months o fthe Project. As specified inthe Credit
Agreement, the Plan governs the procurement methods and prior review thresholds that will
apply to the Project. An agreed plan i s a pre-requisite for any procurement activities to be
financed under the Project and no procurement activities may be undertaken until and unless an
updated plan has beenagreed with the World Bank.

Duringthe course of the Project implementation, the GOM is requiredto periodically update the
Procurement Plan at least on an annual basis in accordance with the provisions o f the Credit
Agreement and the above-mentioned TOR. The objective o f the update is to ensure that the Plan
accurately reflects all the activities which are required to be financed under the Project and
specifies the procurement methods and time schedule for implementation o f each procurement
activity in a manner consistent with the World Bank's Procurement Guidelines and the
requirements o f the Credit Agreement. The objective o f an update is not to create a new plan,
nor to substantially change the Project activities, but to provide a planning and management tool
for the Project, which will be used by all parties involved.

7. PriorReview

        (i)     Goods: Prior review o f bidding documents, including review o f evaluation,
                recommendation o f award and contract will be conducted for all ICB and DCfor
                goods andfirst NCBfor works.

        (ii)    Consulting Services: Requests for Proposal (WP), shortlists, terms o f condition o f
                contracts as well as evaluation reports and recommendation for award will be
                prior reviewed by IDA for contracts firms above US$lOO,OOO.     All documents and
                recommendations involving single source for firms and sole source for individual
                consultant contracting will be subject to IDA prior review.



                                                  37

After award o f contracts, should any material modifications or waiver o fterms and conditions of
a contract resulting in an increase or decrease above 15 percent o f the original amount, IDA will
undertake a prior review o f such modifications (including modifications to contracts for
consulting services).

8. Assessment of the Agency's Capacityto ImplementProcurement

Overall responsibility for procurement management and co-ordination for the Project will rest
with the MOES.        An assessment of the capacity of the MOES was carried out by the
Procurement Specialist in November 2004.          The assessment reviewed the organizational
structure for implementingthe public procurement under the MOES and the responsibilities o f
Public Procurement Officers (PPO) at different level, namely in MOES, BES and the Textbook
Department. This report indicates "High" risk based on the fact that PPOs in the MOES have
little experience with World Bank procurement. The capacity o f the MOES without outside
support and training would be inadequate to handle the procurement activities following the
Bank's procurement procedures. Therefore, procurement training plan for the MOES staff and
Technical Services Unit's (TSU) assistance in the project implementation will assist to build the
procurement capacity for the Project.

The procurement of civil works for refurbishment of schools for the Project will be carried out at
the MOES level by TSU. Contract management including measurement for payment, will be
done by independentlicensed architects/supervisors hiredas consultants.

The following Action Planto strengthenthe MOES' procurement capacity is recommended:

        (i)    The MOES project and procurement staff would be given the opportunity to
               attend training on Bank procurement at the Bank's regional workshops;

        (ii)    Consulting services for supervision o f the civil works should be provided.

        (iii)  Initiating a Project Launch Workshop before the credit effectiveness, as part of
               the    project   implementatiodcapacity      building initiatives,    especially in
               procurement.

        (iv)   The Project would be subject to the intensified supervision by the Bank, including
               periodic ex-post review.

RFPs and biddingdocuments for the first year o f project implementation will be prepared with
the technical assistance financed by the PHRD grant.

                            OverallProcurementRiskAssessment: High




                                                38

    Table A. ProcurementArrangementInvolvingInternationalCompetitiveBidding

Goods.

       List of contract Packages which will be procured following ICB :
                           *
                   2                                   5           6           7           8              9



                Contract                             P-Q       Domestic    Review       Expected     Comments
             (Description)                                     Preference  by Bank        Bid-
                              (US$         Method               (yesho)    (Prior I     Opening
                             million                                         Post)        Date
            I T Equipment                           N.A.      No.         Prior
I           School                                  N.A.      No.         Prior
            furniture




               Table B1: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsand Prior Review

                           Procurement Method
 Expenditure Category           Threshold         Prior-Review Threshold     Contracts Subject to Prior Review
                                   (US%)                   (US$)                      (US%millions)
 1. Goods and works            ICB for goods          All ICB and DC
                              NCB for works              First NCB                      1.80
                                 <100,000
                              Shopping below
                                 <100,000

 2. Services                                      Firms Over 100,000 and                0.80
                                                  Single SourceiSoleSource
                                                         Selections



                        Total value of contracts subject to prior review: $2.6 million




                                                   39

              TableB2: ProcurementandTechnicalAssistance Requirements

~~~

  Ex-postReview         Section 1: Ex-postreview mechanism: Review carriedout in accordance with Para.4 of
                       Appendix 1 of the Bank`sGuidelinesand reviewsduring supervision missions.
                       Frequency of procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed: One every six months and
                        once ayear duringsubsequentyears (includesspecial procurementsupervisionfor post-
                        review).
                        Section2: Training, InformationandDevelopmenton Procurement
                       Estimateddate of ProjectLaunchWorkshop:July 2005
                       Estimateddate of publicationof GeneralProcurementNotice: March 2005
                       Indicateifthere is procurementsubject to mandatory SPN inDevelopmentBusiness:
                       Yes.
                       Domestic Preferencefor Goods: No
                       DomesticPreferencefor Works, ifapplicable:No
                       Retroactivefinancing: Yes
                       Advance procurement:Yes
                       Explain briefly the ProcurementMonitoring System:
                       All procurementrelateddocumentationthat requires IDA's prior reviewwill be cleared
                       by ProcurementAccreditedStaff(PAS) andrelevanttechnicalstaff. Packagesabove
                       mandatoryreviewthresholds will be reviewedby the RPA. The IA o f the Borrower will
                       maintaincompleteprocurementfiles, especially for the contractssubject to post-review,
                       which will be reviewedby IDA's supervisionmissions. The ProcurementPlan will be
                       updatedannually. Procurementinformationwill be recordedby the I A and the I A will
                       submit PMRs on semiannualbasis. This informationwill include:revisedcost estimates
                       for the different contracts; revisedtiming ofprocurement actions, includingadvertising,
                       bidding, contract award, and completiontime for individual contracts. A Management
                       Information System (MIS), with aprocurementmodulewill helpthe IA monitorall
                       procurementinformation.
                        Co-financing:No.
                        Section 3: Procurement Staffing
                       Indicatename of ProcurementStaff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsiblefor the
                       procurement in the Project:
                       Name: Yingwei Wu                Ext: 35291
                        Explain briefly the expectedrole of the Field Office in Procurement:N.A.




                                                    40

                             Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis
              SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO: MontenegroEducationReform

Summary

While public spending on education is high in international terms, spending is characterized by
tight budgets, inefficient spending with very low proportions o f spending on non-salary items,
high arrears and poor outcomes. In2003, the share o f education expenditures inthe total central
Government budget was 22 percent and 7.2 percent in GDP. For the purpose o f this analysis, it
has been conservatively estimated that the public budget for education will rise from 81.1
million to 98.7 million between 2003 and 2009 (whenthe Project i s scheduled to close). This i s
a slight decrease in terms o f central government spending from 20.8 percent in 2003 to 18.9
percent in2006 and throughout the Project implementation period. InGDP terms, this represents
a decrease from 6.2 percent o f GDP to 5 percent in 2009, which i s in line with the government
strategy to decrease total public spending. Although there i s no clear Government commitment
to protect the education budget, it has been recommended to do so for compulsory education in
the draft MDGs report, which is a joint work of the Government and UNDP that as important
sector for achievement o f MDGs education should remain largely untouched even as the budget
expenditure as a percent o f GDP falls gradually.

The activities under the Project will increase public expenditure, unless efficiency savings are
made. The largest o f these potential increases comes from the number o f reform schools
included and the establishment o f the new examination center. These increases are estimated to
be around 8 million (beyond the 3.7 million financed from the Credit). After the project
closes, ongoing recurrent costs, from teacher training and assessment activities, are expected to
increase by 0.7 million a year. While these expenses are not large as a proportion o f the overall
education budget (approximately 0.7 percent), they represent a large proportion o f the non-salary
expenditures(approximately 11percent).

Given that Government policy is to place an increasingly hard cap on public spending, these
additional costs can only be met from savings within the allocated education budget. There are
presently 224 school units (47 mother schools and 177 satellite schools) with 10 or fewer
students per class (Le., 528 classes with 1 teacher each). The calculations show that if the
Government were to close down all the small classes and schools, and reduce the teaching force
as a consequence, this would generate savings o f 3.5 million in terms o f teacher salaries
expenses. Inaddition, current demographic trends, according to which the number o f school-age
population i s constantly declining, would allow for savings of at minimum 2.6 million, if the
number of teachers were to decline proportionally. With projected increase in the education
budget in absolute terms, these savings would be more than enough to cover the anticipated
additional costs.

The Project will also yield other benefits which are not likely to accrue duringthe project period
and are more difficult to quantify. The most important o f these is the improvements to the
quality o f education.   Currently, secondary education graduates have the highest rates o f
unemployment, even higher than primary education graduates. This emphasizes the need to
change what i s taught and the way it i s taught.       Improvements in teaching will lead to



                                                41

improvements in the skills and knowledge acquired by students, and improves labor market
outcomes, These latter improvements will not be seen during the project period, but measures o f
student learning inprimary education will be undertaken.

Macroeconomic Framework and Education Budget Forecast

According to the government economic reform agenda, the top priority for macroeconomic
policy i s the achievement o f economic stability and sustainable growth as the precondition for
improving living conditions and achieving poverty reduction. One o f the main pillars o f this
macroeconomic agenda i s the long term government strategy to reduce the size o f the public
sector (share o f total central government expenditure in GDP was 32.9 percent in 2003).
However, the Government has been advised and it was spelled out in the draft MDGs report,
which i s a joint work o f the Government and UNDP, that those sectors o f considerable
importance for the achievement o f the MDGs, such as education, should remain largely
untouched even as the budget expenditureas a percent o f GDP falls gradually. Table 1 shows a
conservative forecast o f the education sector budget over the project implementation period. It
assumes that composition o f central budget remains favorable to education, so that the share o f
education expenditures goes only slightly below 20 percent.                            In GDP terms, this forecast
envisages decreasing share o f the education expenditures, so that by 2009, it comes down to 5.2
percent.

                                        Table 1: EducationBudget Forecast3


                              2003     2004 (Plan) 2005 (Plan)         2006            2007            2008           2009
                          (Executed)                               (Projection)     (Projection) (Projection) (Projection
Total                         81.1         90.7          88.2           88.2            90.7           96.1            98.2
Primary Education             45.6         48.6          47.1           52.0            50.8           53.8            55.0
SecondaryEducation            17.3         20.7          20.6           19.4            20.0           21.2            21.6
Other                         18.2         21.4          20.5           16.8            20.0           21.2            21.6


As % of Central GoM
budget                          20.8%        21.2%         19.0%            18.9%           18.9%         18.9%          18.9%
As % of GDP                      6.2%         6.1%          5.6%             5.3%            5.2%          5.2%           5.0%

The forecast o f the education budget i s based on the spending pattern in 2003, the budget plan
for 2004 and 2005 and the Government Medium Term Framework, which foresees total public
spending and GDP levels up to 2007. Similar trend for GDP i s projected to continue in years
2008 and 2009, while further reduction o f the share o f public spending in GDP i s envisaged for
projection o f government spending.




  Separate lines are given for the primary and secondary education sectors as the main areas where project will be active. There
is also a separate line for the Bureau for Education Services, which i s a separate budget holder, but was added to the MOES
budget, as the project will support school staff professional development in reform schools, which i s the responsibility of the
Bureau.


                                                              42

This is in line with the government strategy for public sector shrinking, where the overall
economic outlook do not allow for any further increase in the public expenditures and all the
reforms in education will have to be funded from internal savings.       On the other side, the
education budget increase in absolute terms (from 90.7 million in 2004 to 98.2 million in
2009) will be a significant source for covering the additional costs that will occur during and
after the project implementation.

AdditionalAnticipated ExpendituresDuringandAfter ProjectImplementation

Cost of Reform Schools. It has proven difficult to establish the cost of reform schools in the
education budget, because the MOES has not calculated it nor i s the information available inone
place. For the 20 schools piloting the reforms in 2004, the additional costs are estimated to be
1.218 million.     In order to provide furniture and renovate 20 reform schools in primary
education, the Ministry has entered into an agreement with a local provider. The value o f
furniture and equipment provided to these 20 schools is 877,517.         The total value o f the
agreement is 944,759 (interest included) since the remaining 67,000 were used to equip three
schools in secondary education. This "loan" will be repaid monthly with annuities starting in
February2005 through July 2007.

Additional resources (3,000) were given to each o f the 20 schools for small jobs, such as
paintings, in order to help them to prepare for the reform, and all schools received significant
amounts o f teacher training in 2004. In total, it is estimated that the average cost is around
61,000.

                      Table 2: EstimatedUnit Cost of Reform Schools in2004

                      Type o f Expenditure             Per Unit Cost (e)

                      Furniture and renovation               50,209

                      Teachers training                      10,689

                     ITotal                                  60,898


Given that the number o f schools, and the number o f grades within each school, to be involved
into the reform will be gradually increasing up to 2009, when the reform should be under the
implementation inall the schools, additional resources will be needed through the whole period.




                                               43

                           Table 3: EstimatedCost ofReformSchools

                    2004         2005          2006        2007          2008
                  1.218 m      1.218 m       2.046 m      2.353 m   I  3.397 m




ExaminationCenter. Credit funds will be usedto support the development and implementation
of the grade 6 assessment to be conducted by the Examination Center. According to the Strategy
for the Establishment and the Development o f the Examination Center, the overall costs
(excluding rent) over the project implementation period stand at 2.5 million. The estimated
annual expenses after the project i s completed are approximately 0.3 million.

Teacher Training. The Project will support teacher training inreform schools, as the plans are
to cover all schools by the end o f the Project period (from the Credit and other sources). These
costs during the project are included in the cost o f reform schools, future costs are estimated at
0.4 million on a yearly basis.

EfficiencyImprovements

Closing Small Schools. The MOES consultants working under the PHRD grants have
established that there would be considerable cost savings from closing small schools and
eliminating small classes. There are presently 224 school units (47 mother schools and 177
satellite schools) with 10 or fewer students per class (Le., 528 classes with 1 teacher each).
Closing down all these small classes and schools would generate savings o f 3.5 million.

Savings from RedundantLabor. The Government plans for shrinking o f public sector include
serious cuts in budgetary employment. Under that policy, the first phase o f layoffs i s already in
place in the education sector and certain savings already occurred in 2004. The second phase,
more painful, will take place in2005. Since August 2003,688 employees have left the education
system voluntarily, with a severance package o f 2,000 each. This way, the MOES has saved
approximately 3 million from the wage bill. However, in2005, the MOES budget has been cut
from 89.2 million to 88.2 million, as these funds were needed for reducing the budget deficit.
Giventhat the projects aims to strengthen the capacity for program budgeting inthe Ministry, it
should also improve the MOES power when negotiating the budget with the Ministry o f Finance
inorder to securethat eventual future efficiencies remaininthe education sector.




                                                44

Savings Due to the Declining Number of Teachers. InTable 4, we have estimated that with
the current trend of declining school-age population, minimum savings would occur of 2.6
million, if the number of teachers were to decrease at the same rate (which would mean a
decrease o f 866 between 2004 and 2009). We assumed 4 percent annual average increase in
salaries and no change in enrollment rates, with-pupilheacher ratio slighly increasing inprimary
education from 16.1 in 2004 to 17.1 in 2006 and not changing in the secondary education, since
it is closer to international standards. The savings that are envisaged to occur could be used for
financing of non-salary expenditures, so that the ratio o f salaryhon-salary expenditures would
gradually increase over the projected period.

            Table 4: Pupilsand Teachers Projections Over the Project ImplementationPeriod

                                                                     2004        2005      2006     2007        2008       2009
                                                                  I           I         I         I         I           I
 Primary
 Pupils                                                                72,000     70,500    69,100   67,700     66,000      65,000
 Teachers1                                                              4,444      4,148     4,039    3,934       3,853      3,774
 Salary expenditure (em)                                                  23.1      22.4      21.9      21.3       20.8       20.4
  Savings due to the decreasing number o f teachers (m)                              0.7       1.2        1.8       2.3         2.6


 Secondary
 Pupils                                                                32,000     31,300    30,700   30,100      29,000      28,900
 Teachers                                                                1,988     1,947     1,907     1,868      1,830       1,792
 Salary expenditure (m)                                                   10.3      10.1       9.9       9.7        9.5         9.8
 Savings due to the decreasing number of teachers (em)                               0.2       0.4       0.6        0.8        1.01




Additional Costs versus Potential Savings.



                                                                 Costs (during the     Savings     Annual costsafter the project
                                                                     project                       implementation (examination
                                                                 implementation)                   center and teachers training)
   Cost of reformschools                                                 9                                      0.7

  =establishment           of the examinationcenter                     2.5

   To be coveredfrom the project (reform schools and
   examinationcenter)                                                   3.7

   Total additional costs that will occur with project (reform
   schools  +examination   center)-project funds for reform             7.8
   schools and examinationcenter
   Savings from closingsmall schools                                                     3.5

   Savings thanks to declining number of students                                        2.6

   Savingsthanks to absoluteincreaseinthe educationbudget                                7.5


   Total savings                                                                        13.65


   Total savings-Additional costs                                      5.65




                                                                  45

Inthe above table, we put together all the cost that will occur during the project implementation
period. These were calculated by summing up the total costs o f reform schools during the
project implementation (2005-2009) that stand at 9 million and the total costs o f the
establishment o f the examination center (2.5 million). The sum o f the two was decreased by
project funds that will be covering reform and examination, so that the total additional costs that
will come to the project implementation stand at 7.8 million.

On the other side, we put together the savings that should occur from closing small schools and
classes, savings that would occur if the number o f teachers would decline together with the
decline in school-age population and absolute increase in the education budget. If we compare
the total additional costs that will occur during the project implementationwith minimumsaving
that should occur over the same period, the savings exceed the costs by 5.6 million. The last
column shows that the annual costs o f project initiated activities that will remain after the project
implementation are 0.7 million. These would come from the examination center activities and
teachers training. If the above savings remain in the education system, it would be very likely
that sustainability o f the activities initiated with the project i s secured.

Beyondpaying for these additional costs from the project, the efficiency savings could be usedto
increase spending on quality-enhancing investments. This would improve learning outcomes
after the Project closes.

Other Project Benefits

Improved Quality of Teaching and Learning. As mentioned above, shifting the education
budget in favor of non-salary expenses and favorable macro-economic environment for
education would allow for freeing resources for professional development o f teaching staff,
Duringthe project implementation, the activities in this area will be covered from the Credit.
However, availability o f resources will be o f significant importance when the Project has been
implemented. Teachers engaging inbehavior knownto lead to increases instudent learning and
students using new learning materials in the classroom will be measured through classroom
observations under the new school self-evaluation programme and periodic surveys.

Poverty and Minority Issues. Although primary education i s free, the expenses for required
textbooks and other learning materials represent an important risk for the poor. According to the
PRSP, parents on average spend 87 Euros (more than third o f the average net wage) for one
school year for textbooks and other learning supplies for one child. These costs occurred even
when the MOES subsidizes textbooks so that parents pay only 60 percent o f the actual cost.

In parallel, with the positive macroeconomic trends, the possibility exists that the situation of
these groups in extreme poverty will become even worse if there i s no change in poverty policy
and targeting. Inorder to address this aspect inthe education sector, the Government will agree
with the World Bank a programme for ensuring that children from socially disadvantaged
backgrounds have access to the requiredcurriculum materials.

The Project will support the development costs o f textbooks and other learning materials under
the reform program for general education, including in minority languages and for children with


                                                    46

special needs.      The Project will finance the printing and distribution costs to the most
disadvantaged groups; the Government would finance these costs for others.              Technical
assistance will be provided, through the PHRD grant, to advise the MOES and the Textbook
Department on such arrangements.

It was agreed that it is important each year to have a selection o f schools that represents the
diversity o f Montenegrin schools. Inthe first set of 20 schools, a good geographic representation
was achieved, though only schools with good basic infrastructure were included. The 27 schools
to be included from September 2005 will also be geographically representative, but these also
include four schools with significant Albanian populations.

Linkage to Labor Market. Unemployment in Montenegro i s concentrated among individuals
with primary and secondary education (Table 6 below). The unemployment rate for those with a
secondary education i s four times higher than for highly educated. This i s made even more
striking by the fact that persons with a secondary education comprise about two-thirds of the
labor force. For these reasons, it was decided that under the PHRD findings, a tracer study o f
secondary education graduates will be financed. Since the Project will improve the quality o f
teaching and learning in secondary education, it should improve the incentives to stay in the
system and improve the skills. Therefore, even with the low case macroeconomic scenarios, the
Project will improve the labor market performance o f graduates.

                     Table 6: Unemploymentby EducationalLevel,2002 (percent)

                                                      Montenegro
                                Unemployment            Share in           Share in
                                     Rate           Unemployment         Employment
             All                  17.9             100.0                 100.0
             Less than primary    9.1                 1.6                 3.4
             Primary completed
                                  16.6              20.3                 22.4
              Secondary
             completed           20.8               71.1                  59.0
             Higher               15.0                4.7                  5.8
             University           5.2                 2.3                  9.4
            Source: LFS, 2002.




                                                47

                 Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
       SERBIAAND MONTENEGRO:MontenegroEducationReform




None.




                               48

                         Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
              SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO: MontenegroEducationReform


                                                    Planned          Actual
PCN review                                         09/09/04          09/09/04
InitialPID to Infoshop                             09121/04          10/08/04
Initial ISDS to Infoshop                           09/21I04          09/30/04
Appraisa1                                          01131lo5          01131/05
Negotiations                                       02121/05          02121I05
Board/RVP approval                                 03131/05
Planned date o f effectiveness                     07/01/05
Planned date o fmid-termreview                     09/15/07
Planned closing date                                12131109

Key institutions responsible for preparationo f the project:
Ministry of Educationand Science, Government of Montenegro
Bureau for Education Services, Governmento f Montenegro

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                         Title                    Unit
Toby Linden               Team Leader&-.Education Specialist         ECSHD
Zorica Lesic              Operations Analyst                         ECSHD
Tanja Boskovic            Jr. Professional Associate                 ECSHD
Carmen Laurente           Sr. Program Assistant                      ECSHD
Michael Gascoyne          Sr. Financial Management Specialist        ECSPS
Yingwei Wu                Sr. Procurement Specialist                 ECSPS
Gennady Pilch             Sr. Counsel                                LEGEC
Joseph Formoso            Sr. Financial Officer                      LOAGl
Albert0 Rodriguez         Sr. Education Specialist/Peer Reviewer     LCSHD
Michel Welmond            Sr. Education SpecialistIPeer Reviewer    MNSHD
Pasi Sahlberg             Sr. Education SDecialidPeer Reviewer       ECHSD


Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
    1. Bank resources:                 US$150,570.00
    2. Trust funds (PHRD):             US$152,198.42
    3. Total:                          US$302,768.42

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
    1. Remaining costs to approval: US$25,000.0
    2. Estimatedannual supervisioncost: US$80,000 per year




                                                 49

                           Annex 12: Documents inthe ProjectFile
               SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO: MontenegroEducationReform


1.    Montenegro National Action Planfor Children. Government o f Montenegro, September
2004.

2.    Reviews of National Policiesfor Education SouthEastern Europe: Volume 2: FYROM,
Moldova, Montenegro, Romania, Serbia. OECD, September 2003. ISBN: 9264104828.

3.    Enhancement of Quality Assurance in Higher Education in Montenegro. The Capacity
Development Program. Draft Report. Government of Montenegro, UNDP andFoundation
Open Society Institute, Montenegro. Kralj, Alojz. Podgorica and Ljubljana, December 2004.

4.     Teacher Training. InterimReport. Norley, Alan. October 31,2004.

5,    Education AssessmentReport. Dr.Zabulionis, Algirdas. Podgorica, Montenegro,
October 12-17, 2004.

6.    Internal Organization and Systematizationof the Ministry of Education and Science.
Draft Report. Podgorica, Montenegro, December 2004.

7.    Proposal of the Programme Budgetfor 2005. BES, Republic o f Montenegro. Podgorica,
September 2004.

8.    Rulebook of Internal Organization and Systematization. BES, Republic of Montenegro.
Podgorica, December 2004.

9.    Draft Strategic Plan of the Bureaufor Education Services. BES, Podgorica, December7,
2004.

10.   Action Planfor the Roma Decade Inclusion, Ministry of Education and Science and
Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Podgorica, December 15, 2004.

11.    Supporting Key Institutions in the Education Sector of Montenegro: An Assessment of
Performance and Capabilities of the Ministry of Education and Science and the Bureaufor
Education Services. Educator DevelopmentProgram (a project of Universalia and the
University o f Calgary). January 2005.

12.    Finland's support to the developmentof education sector in Montenegro: programme
document. Government of Finland, Ministry of Foreign Affairs. October 2004.




                                               50

                              Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits
                 SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO: MontenegroEducationReform

                                                                                            Difference
                                                                                             Between
                                                                                          Expectedand
                                                                                             Actual
                                                 OriginalAmount in US%Millions           Disbursements

Project    Fiscal                                                                                  Rev,d
                                                                                                    Frm
  ID       Year             Project Name       IBRD    IDA     GRANT     Cancel. Undisb. Orig.


PO75189    2002   EDUC IMPRVMT                  0.00    10.00      0.00     0.00   7.32   2.26        0.00
PO77473    2003   EMGPOWER LIC (MONTENEGRO)     0.00     5.00      0.00     0.00   4.61   3.91        0.00
PO69374    2003   EMPLYMT PROMO LIL             0.00     2.75      0.00     0.00   2.44    1.44       0.00
PO75343    2004   ENERGY EFF                    0.00    21.00      0.00     0.00  20.37   -0.37       0.00
PO79116    2004   ENVIRONMENT (MONTENEGRO)      0.00     7.00      0.00     0.00   7.07   -0.52       0.00
PO74484    2003   EXP FIN FAC                   0.00     11.50     0.00     0.00  11.98   12.64       0.00
PO77675    2003   HEALTH                        0.00    20.00      0.00     0.00  21.41   10.12       0.00
PO82223    2004   HEALTH SYSTEM (MONTENEGRO)    0.00     7.00      0.00     0.00   7.29    0.88      -0.07
PO87470    2004   PENSION ADMIN                 0.00     5.00      0.00     0.00   5.13    0.05       0.00
                  PRIV & REST OF BANKVENTPRS
PO77732    2003   TA                            0.00     11.00     0.00     0.00   10.32   5.95       0.00
PO78311    2004   REAL ESTATE CADASTRE          0.00    30.00      0.00     0.00  29.85    0.78       0.00
PO74908    2005   SAC 2 (MONTENEGRO)            0.00     18.00     0.00     0.00   9.47   -0.47       0.00
PO74090    2002   TRADE & TRANS FACIL INSE EUR  0.00     6.76      0.00     0.00   6.95    3.65       0.00
PO75207    2004   TRNSPT REHAB                  0.00    55.00      0.00     0.00  54.46    2.17       0.00
Overall Result                                  0.00   210.01      0.00     0.00  198.65  42.49      -0.07




                                                  51

                                            SERBIA AND MONTENEGO
                                                STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                             HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                InMillions ofUSDollars
                                                    As of March2005

                                                        Committed                          Disbursed

                                                      IFC                                 IFC
FY Approval  Company                     Loan         Equity   Quasi    Partic. Loan      Equity     Quasi  Partic.

2005         ContinentalBank                 4.13         0       0       2.03     4.13      0         0     2.03
2005         Novosadska                     15.33         0       0       7.53     15.33     0         0     7.53
2005         Opportunity I..                 5.31         0       0         0        0       0         0        0
2005         Panonska                        6.58         0       0       3.23     6.58      0         0     3.23
2005         Privredna Banka                 2.04         0       0        1.o     2.04      0         0       1.o
2002         Procredit KSV                    0          1.11     0         0        0      1.11       0        0
2002/2003    ProCreditSerbia                13.27        2.04     0         0      13.27    2.04       0        0
2002         RaiffeisenYug                    0          3.24     0         0        0      3.23       0        0
200212005    Tigar Tyre                     21.23        3.92    4.11       0     21.23     3.92      4.11      0
1987/89/2005 Vojvodjanska                   10.37         0       0       5.09     10.37      0        0      5.09

                       Total portfolio:      78.26      10.31    4.11    18.88     72.95   10.30      4.11   18.88

*Excludes nonperforming pre-war projects.




                                                             Approvals PendingCommitment
             FY Approval      Company                          Loan      Equity    Quasi      Partic.

              2005            PodgorickaBanka                  6.15         1.92       0          0
              2005            VojvodjanskaRes                  10.0          0         0          0
                                     Total pendingcommitment:   16.15       1.92      0.00      0.00




                                                             52

                                                    Annex 14: Country At A Glance
                        SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO: MontenegroEducationReform


                                                                                                    1
                                                                Serbia    Europe &      Lower-
POVERTY a n d SOCIAL                                               and     Central     mlddie-
                                                          MOnterIEgrO         Asla      Income         Development diamond.
2003
Population, m id-year (millions)                                    8 3        473        2 655                         Life expectancy
GNI par capita (Atias method. U S $ )                             1 9 1 0    2 570        1,480
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                   15 8      1 2 1 7      3,934                                T
Average annual growth, 1 9 9 7 4 3
Population (%)                                                                  0 0          0 9
Laborforce (%J                                                                  0 2          1 2       GNI                                       Gross
                                                                                                       per      t--                             primary
M o s t recent estimate (latest Year availa le,    997-03)                                             capita                                enrollment
Poverty (% of populafion below national poverty line)                 10
Urban population (% oftotal ~ o ~ u l a t i o n l                    53         63           50
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                     72         69           69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live birfhs)                              12         31          32
                                                                                                    1
Child malnutrition (W o f children under 5)                                                  11               Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)                              91          81
Illiteracy 1% ofpopulation age 15+J                                               3          10
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-ape population)                          103          112           ----Serbia         and Montenegro
    Maie                                                                       104          113                    Lower-middle-income group
                                                                                                           ~

    Female                                                                     102          111

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS a n d LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                        1983      1993        2002        2003       1 Economic ratios.

Gross domestic investmentlGDP                                                 16 1         15 8
Exports of goods and servicesIGDP                                             20 7         19 2      I                       Trade

Gross domestic savingslGDP                                                     -7 0         -6 8
Gross national savingslGDP                                                      7 2          5 7

Current account balancelGDP                                                                            Domestic
Interest DaymentslGDP                                                                                  savings                               Investment
Total debt1GDP                                                                75 6
Total debt servicelaxports                                                      3 4          6 4
Present value of debt1GDP                                                                            II                         I

Present value of debtlexports
                                                                                                                           Indebtedness
                                           1983-93   1993-03      2002        2003     2003-07
(average annual growth)                                                                                     -
GDP                                                                 4 0         3 0          4 6                     Serbia and Montenegro
GDP percapita                                                       4 3         3 2          4 5                     Lower-middle-income orouD
Exports of goods and services                                      12 3         1 8        12 5


STRUCTURE o f t h e ECONOMY
                                                        1983      1993        2002        2003         Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of G D P )
Agriculture
Industry
   Manufacturing
Services
Private consumption                                                           a8 7
General government consumption                                                 18 3         18 1
Imports of goods and services                                                 43 8         41 9                      *-GDI           4 G D P           I
                                                     1983-93   1993-03        2o02                     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)                                                                                                                                I
Agriculture                                                                                          40 r

Industrv
   Manufacturina
Services
Private consumption
General government consumption                                                11.6           4 5                98         94    00    01     02     03
Gross domestic investment                                                     34 4           3.2                 ----Exporis         -Imports
Imports of goods and services                                                 26.3         22.9

Nota 2003 data are preliminary estimates.
' T h e diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its incoma-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
    be incomplete.




                                                                             53

                                                                                Serbia and Montenegro

PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                        1983  1993   2002   2003    Inflation (x)
Domestic prices                                                                                                         I
(% change)                                                         1w

Consumer prices                                      21.2    11.3    80

implicitGDP deflator                                 25.5    15.0   60
                                                                    40
Government finance                                                   20
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)                                            -
                                                                      0
Current revenue                                      42.8   42.2              98    99      00        01     02       03
Current budget balance                                -0.9   -2.4
Overall surplus/deRcit                                -3.4   -4.0                  GDP deflator     *CPI



TRADE
                                        1983  1993   2002   2003
(US$ millions)                                                       Export and import levels (US$ mill.)               I
Total exports (fob)                                 2,412   2,917  19.000 T                                             I
 Food                                                               8 000
 Other fuel                                                         7 000

 Manufactures                                                      6 000
                                                                    5 000
Total imports(tin                                   6,320   7,957   4 000
 Food                                                               3 000

 Fuel and energy                                                    2 000
                                                                    1 000                                               I
 Capital goods                                                          0
                                                                            97   98    99
Exportpriceindex (1995=100)                                                                    00     01

importprice index (1995=100)                                                       Exports            irlports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                                                                    O2     O3



BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                        1983  1993   2002   2003
(US$ millions)                                                       Current account balanceto GDP (%)

Exports of goodsand services                         3,241  3,970
importsof goods and services                        6,857   8,675
Resourcebalance                                     -3,616 -4,705
                                                                      4
Net income                                           -111    -237
Net current transfers                                2,343  2,821     6

Current account balance                             -1,384 -2,121     8

Financing items (net)                                2,495  3,391   -10

Changes in net reserves                             -1,111 -1,270

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$millions)                 2,280  3,550
Conversion rate (DEC,local/US$)                       64.2   57.5


EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCE FLOWS                                                                                          I
                                        1983  1993   2002   2003
(US$ millions)                                                       Composition of 2003 debt (US$ mill.)
Totaldebt outstandingand disbursed                  11,768 14,303
  iBRD                                               2,175  2,607
  IDA                                                  167    262             G 2598                 A 2607

Total debt service                                     184    435
  IBRD                                                  76    106
  IDA                                                    0      1

Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                                                       F 2857
  Official creditors                                   242    761
  Privatecreditors
  Foreigndirect investment
  Portfolioequity
                                                                                                                         I
World Bank program
  Commitments                              0     0                   A - IBRD                            E - Bilateral
  Disbursements                                        159     95                                        F Private
                                                                                                           .
                                                                      C - IMF
                                                                      8 - IDA   D - Other rmltilateral
  Principal repayments                                   0      0                                        G - Short-term
  Net flows                                            159     95
  Interest payments                                     75    107
  Net transfers                                         84    -12


 Development Economics                                                                                           11/4/04


                                                       54

MAP SECTION


                18                                                         19                                          20                                       21                                                   22                                  23

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SERBIA AND
                                             H U N G A R Y                                                                                                                                                                MONTENEGRO
                                                                                                                      Szeged                                                         Arad                                           EUROPEAN HIGHWAYS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OTHER CLASS I HIGHWAYS
                             Pcs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RAILWAYS
                                                                                                             Subotica        Kanjiza
                                                                                                                                  
           46                             Mohcs                                                                                                                                                                                   AIRPORTS                             46

                                                                                                  Bajmok                                                                                                                            TOWNS
                                                                                                                        Senta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DISTRICT (OKRUG) HEADQUARTERS
                                                                                                   Backa
                                                                                                                                   Kikinda
                                                                                      Sombor      Topola                 Ada                                                                                                        REPUBLIC OR PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                           Sivac                                                                                   Timisoara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITALS
                                                                             Apatin              VVelikOi J V OBecejD I N A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MUNICIPALITY (OPSTINA) BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                Kula
                                                            Osijek                                                Srbobran                                                                                                          DISTRICT (OKRUG) BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                              Tisa                                                                                                  PROVINCE (POKRAJINE) BOUNDARIES
              CROATIA                                                                                                                    Elemir
                                                                                                                      Temerin                                                                                                       REPUBLIC (REPUBLIKA) BOUNDARY

                                                                                            Backa
                                                                                                                                 Zrenjanin                                                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                 Vinkovci                                   Palanka

                                                                                                       Novi Sad                                                                                                            0           25           50        75 Kilometers

                                                                                          Sid
                                                                                                                                                                                            Vrsac
                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                                                  Alibunar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0                   25               50 Miles
           45                                                                                             Ruma       Indija
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         45

                                                                                                                                                                                     Bela
                                                                                                                                                                                    Crkva
                                                    Brcko
                                                                                                                 Sremska                               Pancevo                                                                              ROMANIA
                                                                                                                 Mitrovica
                                                                                                   Sabac
                                                                                                                                                   BELGRADE          Kovin
                                                                            Bijeljina                          Sava               Zeleznik
                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Danube

                                                                                                                            Obrenovac                 Smederevo                    Pozarevac                 Golubac                        Kladovo

                                                                                          Loznica                                                                           Velika
                                                                                                                                           Mladenovac           Smed.
                                                                                                                                                             Palanka             M              Petrovac                   Majdanpek
                   BOSNIA AND                                                      Drina                     Valjevo                                                          orava
                                                                                                                                                                 Velika-
                 HERZEGOVINA                                                                                                                                                                                                              Negotin
                                                                                                                                                                  Plana                                      Zagubica
                                                                                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                               Ljubovija                                     S E R B I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bor
                                                                                                                                      Gornji                                                                                                                 Vidin
                                                                                                           Rogacica               Milanovac
           44                                                                                                                                      Kragujevac                                                                                                           44
                                                                                                                                                                    Jagodina                                                    Zajecar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
                          SARAJEVO                                                                                                                              (Svetozarevo)                    Cuprija
                                                                                                                Uzice                    Cacak
                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                   Paracin  
                                                                                                                              Pozega
                                                                                                                                 


                                                                                                                                                                                                              Soko
                                                                                                                                                     Kraljevo Zapadna                                                                                BULGARIA
                                                                                                                                                                      Morava                                  Banja
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Knjazevac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                          Ivanjica                                                             Krusevac         Aleksinac

                                                             Foca

                                                                                                           Prijepolje   Uva                                                                                         Nis
                                                                                    Pljevlja               Lim             c

                                                                                  Tara                           Sjenica                     Raska
                                                                                                                                                                                              Prokuplje
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bela


                                                                                                                                   Novi Pazar            Sitnica                                                      JuznaMorava Palanka      Pirot


                                                                                                 Bijelo Polje                                                                                                 Leskovac
           43                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           43

                                                                                                                                                                 Kosovska
                                                        M O N T E N E G R O                                                                                      Mitrovica

                                                                                                                     Berane                                           Vucitrn
                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                        Niksic
                                                                             


                                                                                                                                         Pec  Beli                                  Pristina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Priboj
          CROATIA                      Herceg-                                                                                                                                                                 Vranje
                                       Novi                                                                                                   mirD K O S O V O                       Gnjilane                                          Bosilegrad
                                                                  Podgorica
                                                                                                                                       Dakovica      Orahovac                                                       Bujanovac
                                                                     Cetinje
                                                                                                                                                                  Urosevac
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Presevo
                                                                                                                                                                                                         


                                                                                                Lake
                                                                                                Scutari                                                    Prizren


                                                                        Bar                        Shkodr

                              Adriatic
           42                                                                                                                                                    Tetovo


                                     Sea                                    Ulcinj                                                                                                   SKOPJE
                                                                                                             ALBANIA                                                                                                                          Serbia and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Montenegro

MARCH        This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                          FYR MACEDONIA                                                                                          IBRD

             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                                                       32322
             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
     2003    endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                        20                                          21                                                       22

