Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1064 
Project Name 
Montenegro Education 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
General education sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P084597 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF SERBIA & MONTENEGRO 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Education and Science - Montenegro 
Trg Vektra b.b. 81000 Podgorica, Serbia and Montenegro 
 
Office phone: 
Office fax: 
Cell phone: 
+381 81 405 310 
+381 81 405 334 
+381 (0)69 465 273 
 
Contact Person: Ivana Petricevic, Director, International 
Cooperation 
Email: "Ivana Petricevic - MPIN RCG" <petricevici@mn.yu>
Environment Category 
 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
August 31, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
December 5, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 31, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The existing Transitional Support Strategy for Serbia and Montenegro (updated in February 
2004, Report 27948-YU) h
as, as one of its four objectives, ‘improving the well-being of the most 
vulnerable and building human capacity’.  The proposed Project is included in the draft 2005-07 
CAS, and would support two pillars: improving public financing and strengthening institutions; 
and promoting private-sector led growth. 
 
The education sector faces a range of problems which are common to a number of the Former 
Yugoslav countries, though Montenegro manifests them to a greater degree than most.   
 
ƒ
While education spending is high (approximately 7% of GDP), arrears are very high 
(perhaps as much as 50% of the education budget) and there is little money for quality-
enhancing inputs like teacher training or educational materials.  Pupil-teacher ratios are 
close to international norms, but the administration is large and there are a large number 
of small schools.  
Page  2
ƒ
Lack of reliable data about inputs, outcomes or impact, and therefore little capacity for 
data-driven policy making and consequently institutional leadership at all levels is 
ineffective.  
ƒ
Outdated and ineffective approaches to teaching and learning, with no effective 
professional development system to address these deficiencies. 
ƒ
Unemployment rates are high, especially among the young, and secondary education 
graduates tend to do 
less
 well than primary graduates in the labor market (20.8 versus 
16.6 percent unemployment) and constitute more than 70% of the unemployed.  This is 
likely to be because formal employment is dominated by the public sector and more than 
two-thirds of secondary schools students are in vocational or technical education 
programs. 
ƒ
The substantial number of refugees and internal-displaced persons 
–
approximately 10 
percent of the population – experience inadequate educational provision. 
ƒ
Serious deficiencies in infrastructure, with many schools operating on double or triple 
shifts, and little upgrading of buildings or equipment since the war and economic crises.  
ƒ
A
fragmented higher education system, with one university consisting of many 
independent faculties, some of which are very small and probably unviable, and low rates 
of on-time graduation. 
 
A
broad education reform agenda has been defined by the government, through a participatory 
process, covering many aspects of education development for schools in the Montenegro, 
including brief diagnosis of the issues, necessary steps, and estimated costs of reform.  This 
‘Strategic Plan of Education Reform’, which covers the period 2003-04, includes development of 
a
plan for rationalizing schools, creation of professional centres outside the Ministry (for 
‘Education Services’, for vocational education and for assessment), and revision of curriculum 
and textbooks.  In addition, a comprehensive (and expensive) plan for information and 
communication technology (ICT) in education has been developed.  Much of this reform agenda 
is strong, and is seen as a tool to guide donor activities.  Though implementation has begun, lack 
of funding constrains extensive reform.  
 
A
number of other donors and international agencies are becoming active in the education sector.  
The Governments of Finland and Canada, UNICEF and OSI have all expressed an interest in 
teacher education.  The Government of Finland would also be interested in special needs 
education and the European Agency for Reconstruction has started a project in vocational 
education and training. 
 
The Bank’s value-added would be partly through its considerable experience in other countries 
of the former Yugoslavia, its focus on quality improvement, and from its ability to bring together 
the other donor agencies, most of whom are currently defining their support. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
If successful the proposed Project would build the capacity of the education system to make 
continuous improvements, especially in the area of the quality of teaching and learning in 
schools and the efficient use of resources.     
Page  3
3. Preliminary description 
 
This project is expected to be a $5 million IDA operation.  At this initial phase of project 
preparation, the Government has indicated its priorities are: 
 
·
Teacher professional upgrading: Build the capacity of the Ministry of Education and 
Science and other institutions to upgrade teachers’ skills and knowledge and then to use 
that capacity to train a proportion of teachers.  The MOES would like to develop a career 
incentive scheme, including ‘promoted posts’, to give some teachers higher salaries.   
 
·
Education technology and materials: Support the implementation of the MOES’ ICT 
strategy, giving particularly emphasis to improving access for poor and, possibly, rural 
communities and to integrating of ICT into teaching and learning.  Provision of books 
and other learning materials. 
 
·
Assessment: Support to the proposed new assessment centre. 
 
In addition, the PHRD grant is also exploring ways the Project might improve system monitoring 
and efficiency.  This would include development of a system to monitor quality, efficiency, 
equity indicators, and the cost-effectiveness of education spending, to improve the capacity of 
decision makers (at various levels of the system) to use systematic information in their day-to-
day management of resources.  Support could also be provided to improve strategic planning, 
and budget preparation and execution in the Ministry, to enable the Government to pay off 
arrears, make more reliable payments, and to meet its policy priorities more efficiently. 
 
Coordination between the various international agencies and donors is an important objective, 
which will be explored during project preparation. 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
[Guideline:  Refer to section 5 of the PCN.  Which safeguard policies might apply to the project 
and in what ways?  What actions might be needed during project preparation to assess 
safeguard issues and prepare to mitigate them?]
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT .5 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
5 
 Total 
5.5 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Toby Linden 
Title: Senior Education Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-3566 
Fax: (202) 614-1141 
Page  4
Email: tlinden@worldbank.org
 
