                  Document of
               The World Bank



                                      Report No: ICR00001082




IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                 (IDA-40480)

                     ON A

                   CREDIT

       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.3 MILLION

          US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                      TO

                MONTENEGRO

                    FOR A

   MONTENEGRO EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT



                 June 23, 2010
                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective April 12, 2010)

                                  Currency Unit = Euro
                                 Euro 1.00 = US$ 1.3593

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BES         Bureau for Education           ICU       International Cooperation Unit
            Services
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy    IDA       International Development
                                                     Association
CFAA        Country Financial              ILPE      Improving Life of People in ECA
            Accountability Assessment
CIDA        Canadian International         ISR       Implementation Status and Results
            Development Agency                       Report
CPD         Continuous Professional        M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
            Development
CVE         Center for Vocational          MDG       Millennium Development Goal
            Education
ECA         Europe and Central Asia        MERP      Montenegro Education Reform
                                                     Project
EMIS        Education Management           MoES      Ministry of Education and Science
            Information System
EU          European Union                 MOF       Ministry of Finance
FM          Financial Management           OECD      Organization of Economic
                                                     Cooperation and Development
FMRs        Financial Management           PAD       Project Appraisal Document
            Reports
FOSI- ROM   Foundation Open Society        PDO       Project Development Objective
            Institute- Representative
            Office Montenegro

GDP         Gross Domestic Product         PISA      Program for International Student
                                                     Assessment
GoM         Government of Montenegro       PRST      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
ICR         Implementation Completion      RAE       Roma, Ashkaelia and Egyptian
            Report
ICT         Information and                SaM       Serbia and Montenegro
            Communication Technology
SWAP        Sector Wide Approach           TTL       Task Team Leader
TSU         Technical Service Unit         VET       Vocational Education and Training


             Vice President:                Philippe H. Le Houerou
             Country Director:              Jane Armitage
             Acting Sector Manager:         Alberto Rodriguez
             Project Team Leader:           Nina Arnhold
             ICR Team Leader:               Sara Bin Mahfooz
                                           MONTENEGRO
                                  Montenegro Education Reform Project




CONTENTS


Data Sheet
         A. Basic Information
         B. Key Dates
         C. Ratings Summary
         D. Sector and Theme Codes
         E. Bank Staff
         F. Results Framework Analysis
         G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
         H. Restructuring
         I. Disbursement Graph



  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 18
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 18
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 21
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 21
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 26
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 27
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 29
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 30
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 31
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 36
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 37
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Education Reform
Country:                Montenegro              Project Name:
                                                                          Project (Montenegro)
Project ID:             P084597                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-40480
ICR Date:               06/28/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          MONTENEGRO
Original Total
                        XDR 3.3M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 3.3M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 3.3M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Education and Science
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/09/2004     Effectiveness:                               07/24/2005
Appraisal:            01/31/2005     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             03/31/2005     Mid-term Review:           09/15/2007        11/01/2007
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2009        12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Highly Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Highly Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Highly Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Highly Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                          Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                           No                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           No                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Highly Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                    15                  15
Primary education                                                    55                  55
Secondary education                                                  25                  25
Sub-national government administration                               5                    5


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                                     33                  33
Education for all                                                    67                  67

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou              Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Jane Armitage                       Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:            Alberto Rodriguez                   Maureen Anne McLaughlin
Project Team Leader:       Nina Arnhold                        Tobias Linden
ICR Team Leader:           Sara Bin Mahfooz
ICR Primary Author:        Sara Bin Mahfooz


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project was to strengthen the capacity of the education system to
make continuous improvements, especially in the quality of teaching and learning in
schools and in the efficient use of budgetary resources.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
There were no revisions to the PDO.


                                                 ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target        Completion or
                                                documents)         Values        Target Years
                In the reform schools, at least 70% of teachers are observed to be using the skills
Indicator 1 :
                and knowledge learnt through training provided under the Project
                                                                              75% of observed
                                                                              teachers use the
Value                                       70% of the total                  skills and
quantitative or 0 teachers.                 number of trained                 knowledge acquired
Qualitative)                                teachers                          through training
                                                                              provided under the
                                                                              project
Date achieved 03/31/2005                    12/31/2009                        01/10/2009
Comments
(incl. %        OVER ACHIEVED
achievement)
                Elimination of education arrears and increase in non-salary recurrent expenditure
Indicator 2 : from the State Budget to 20% of total government spending on primary and
                secondary education.
                                            Arrears: 0%                       Arrears: 1.21%
Value
                Arrears: 10%;               Non-salary                        Non-salary
quantitative or
                Non-salary: 5.4%            expenditures:                     expenditures:
Qualitative)
                                            20%                                6.67%
Date achieved 03/31/2005                    12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
                PARTIALLY ACHIEVED.
(incl. %
                2009 data.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                approval                         Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
                Textbooks for participating school available on time (i.e. before the beginning of
                the school year available for purchase in shop; for minority students available in
Indicator 1 :
                the
                classroom)
Value
(quantitative   17%                        100%                               100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/31/2005                   12/31/2009                         01/10/2009
Comments
(incl. %        FULLY ACHIEVED.
achievement)


                                                iii
Indicator 2 :     In reform schools, over 90% of students actively use textbooks in class
Value
(quantitative     New indicator             90%                                98%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/31/2005                12/31/2009                         10/01/2009
Comments
(incl. %          OVER ACHIEVED.
achievement)
                Renovation of schools and delivery of equipment to all participating schools is
Indicator 3 :
                completed before the start of each school year
                                                                               School furniture
                                                                               delivered in 42 out
                                           Renovation
Value                                                                          of 42 planned
                No schools renovated       completed for all
(quantitative                                                                  schools. Renovation
                under the project          participating
or Qualitative)                                                                completed for all
                                           schools
                                                                               participating
                                                                               schools
Date achieved 03/31/2005                   12/31/2009                          10/01/2009
Comments
(incl. %        FULLY ACHIEVED.
achievement)
                Education quality improvement is planned based on recommendations gathered
Indicator 4 : through school quality assurance model, as well as on the basis of students
                achievements
                                           Progress reports                    Progress reports
                                           delivered and                       prepared by BES
Value
                                           discussed at the                    delivered and
(quantitative   N/A
                                           Steering                            discussed at the
or Qualitative)
                                           Committee                           Steering Committee
                                           meeting annually                    meeting
Date achieved 03/31/2005                   12/31/2009                          10/01/2009
Comments
(incl. %        FULLY ACHIEVED
achievement)
                Each year, the MoES and BES program budgets are provided to the MoF on time
Indicator 5 : and having been prepared in accordance with instructions, following
                consultations with international agencies active in education sector
Value                                                                          Program budget
                                           Program budget
(quantitative   N/A                                                            satisfactory,
                                           delivered on time
or Qualitative)                                                                delivered on time
Date achieved 04/20/2006                   12/31/2009                          10/01/2009
Comments
(incl. %        FULLY ACHIEVED
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Satisfactory progress is made in implementing the plan to address arrears
Value                                                                          Plan implemented
                No plan for elimination of
(quantitative                              Plan Implemented                    but arrears still not
                education arrears (N/A)
or Qualitative)                                                                fully eliminated.



                                                  iv
Date achieved 03/31/2005        12/31/2009                           10/01/2009
Comments
(incl. %      PARTIALLY ACHIEVED
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                          Actual
       Date ISR
No.                         DO                         IP             Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                      (USD millions)
  1    04/14/2005       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   0.00
  2    10/31/2005    Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory               1.74
  3    06/14/2006    Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory               2.59
  4    02/26/2007    Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory               2.86
  5    01/07/2008    Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory               4.10
  6    09/09/2008    Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory               4.50
  7    06/16/2009    Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory               4.72
  8    12/16/2009    Highly Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory               4.72


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                           v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

The Montenegro Education Reform Project was approved by the Board on March 31,
2005. The International Development Association (IDA) Credit was signed on April,
25th 2005, and it became effective on July, 24th 2005.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country context

Yugoslavia was a federation of six republics, four of which became independent in the
early 1990s: Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, and Macedonia. That left only
Serbia and Montenegro, which in 2003 changed the name of the country to Serbia and
Montenegro. The responsibilities of the two constitutive Republics were clarified.
Education was entirely a Republic responsibility, and the Project required no role for the
State Union in implementation. Montenegro held a referendum in mid-2006 and the
people of Montenegro voted for independence. On June 3rd 2006, the Parliament of
Montenegro declared the independence of Montenegro, formally confirming the result of
the referendum on independence. Serbia did not obstruct the ruling, confirming its own
independence.

Sector context

In 2003, Education spending in Montenegro represented 7.2 percent of GDP or 22
percent of total Government spending. This was comparable to wealthier countries (5.3
percent of GDP in the United Kingdom, 7.4 percent in Estonia, and an average in OECD
countries of 5.9 percent). At the same time, in actual terms expenditures were not high
and recurrent expenditures represented 75 percent of it. Arrears were very high
(approximately 10 percent of the education budget) and there was little funding for
quality-enhancing inputs like teacher training or educational materials. Since 1999, the
number of pupils in primary schools had fallen by about two percent per year. The
enrollment rate was much lower among ethnic minority groups, especially among the
Roma, Ashkaelia, and Egyptian (RAE) ethnic groups which formed 3.3 percent of the
population.

At the time of appraisal in 2005, the level of education in Montenegro was considerably
high, as compared to OECD average. According to then available data (1991 Census),
only 8.9 percent of the population aged 15 or more was without education, 16.3 percent
with incomplete primary education, and those who had only completed primary education
represented 29.5 percent. Montenegro was on track to meet the Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs) related to education, with a primary school enrollment rate
of 96 percent, and girls making over 50 percent of pre-school and secondary students, and
48 percent of all primary students. Secondary enrollment rates ranged from 85 to 90
percent but over two-thirds of secondary students were in vocational or technical
programs that did not appear well linked to labor market requirements.

1
Labor market outcomes were poor, and low-quality inputs suggested that student learning
outcomes were also low, although reliable measures of student achievement did not exist.
Inputs into the learning process were generally of meager quality. Although teachers
were paid somewhat better than in other countries in the region, salaries were very low in
relation to the cost of living, especially in urban areas. Learning materials and equipment
were of poor quality, and information and communication technology (ICT) was readily
available at only a small minority of schools. Approaches to teaching and learning were
outdated, with no effective professional development system to address these
deficiencies. Teacher pre-service education included limited modern teaching methods
and approaches.

Despite efforts to improve school infrastructure, it remained constrained and poorly used.
Many urban schools operated in multiple shifts, while smaller rural schools were
underutilized. Recognizing this situation, in 1999 the Government of Montenegro (GoM)
embarked on a reform program to reinvigorate the education sector. The reform aimed to
introduce new curricula, overhaul vocational and technical education, improve teacher
training, and more closely link pay to performance, while reorienting expenditure toward
infrastructure and the provision of textbooks and other materials. Although well
designed, strong efforts were needed to implement this program.

The conception and agenda of the education reform was designed through wide
participation of experts (national and international) and stakeholders, and was presented
in the Book of Changes in 2001. This book outlined several key reform goals, noting that
Montenegrin education system should:

·   Be a promoter of development, together with science and technology;
·   Develop in the direction of supporting inclusiveness and participation at all levels and
    in all areas of work and activity;
·   Meet the needs, interests, wishes, and ambitions of the individuals being educated;
·   Be organized so as to provide an individual with the opportunities for the
    development of freedom of thought and willful active participation; and
·   In terms of its content, provide a basis for the development of youth and adults who
    would respect human rights, the legal state, pluralistic democracy, tolerance, and
    solidarity.

The reform program intentionally focused on policies and procedures which had already
been carefully planned by the Government. This process was clarified in the Ministry of
Education and Science's (MoES) Strategic Plan for Education Reform in Montenegro
(2003-2004). The plan outlined 11 key activities in the reform process for the period
covered by the Strategic Plan including:

    1. Restructuring of MoES, including organizational structure (leading to a
       downsizing in the MoES and the establishment of a Bureau for Education
       Services (BES), a Center for Vocational Education (CVE), and a Center for
       Examinations), human resource development/capacity building, promotion of

2
        lifelong learning, and development of a Department for International Cooperation
        at the Ministry.
    2. Creating a supportive legal framework of laws, by-laws, and regulations.
    3. Founding of three new advisory bodies (the Councils for General Education,
        Vocational Education, and Adult Education, respectively).
    4. Developing infrastructure and capacity to support the Bureau for Education
        Services, the Center for Vocational Education, and the Center for Examinations.
    5. Disseminating the reform process through media campaigns.
    6. Rationalizing the school network, including finding solutions for space issues.
    7. Selecting schools to pilot educational reforms (approximately 10 percent of all
        schools were to be identified as `high-performers' where new curriculum and
        other improvements were to be piloted).
    8. Introducing Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) into the
        educational system.
    9. Revising the curricula for all pre-university programs in Montenegro.
    10. Revising textbooks.
    11. Establishing an Inspectorate of Education.


The plan included the extension of compulsory primary education to nine years by
including six-year olds into primary education and reforming curricula at all levels of the
education system. The new curricula for all levels had been already drafted and the
majority of the curricula for the primary and secondary school grades had been approved.
The reforms, including the implementation of the new curricula, started in 20 pilot
primary schools from all over the Republic (there were 161 main primary schools in
Montenegro, with 322 satellite units). These schools started with the new first grade
curricula at the beginning of school year 2004/2005. An additional 27 primary schools
were selected for next school year. The Bureau for Education Services (BES) had
developed plans for evaluating the reform.

However, the Government's reform faced several challenges:

First, the Government's intention to partly decentralize educational financing (without
further reaching differentiation of education functions) faced some opposition as under
the Government's proposal some expenses - mainly teachers' salaries and capital
investment - were to be provided from the national budget, while the remaining school
expenses were to be met by local governments. The municipalities objected to taking on
this additional burden because of lack of adequate resources. In this context, the proposal
had to be reconsidered.

Second, the capacity for strategic planning, budgeting, managing, and monitoring the
system was weak and so was the capability to implement the ambitious reform. The
challenge was to turn reform principles and new legislation into strategies and action
plans. The reform called for a significant capacity building of staff at educational
institutions at the central level, local governments and schools. The high level of arrears
of the education sector and the lack of non-salary budget made the reform fragile and

3
unlikely to be sustained. However, the Government's reform agenda did not tackle these
issues head on. Institutional re-organization was initiated at the central level. The MoES
was restructured to perform roles mainly related to policy-making, co-ordination,
financing, and international co-operation in education. Two central institutions were
established: one for general education (the Bureau for Educational Services - BES) and
one for vocational education (the Centre for Vocational Education). Many employees
who were in the education inspectorate were transferred from the MoES to these two
institutions. The BES hosted an examination center, which became independent from the
Ministry in 2005. The two new central professional institutions were considered to be of
key importance for the implementation of the reform and in the quality assessment and
assurance of education in the future. However, their experience was limited and
significant capacity building was needed.

Third, the structure of secondary education at the time of project preparation, with its
very high proportion of students in vocational and technical courses, needed a significant
overhaul.

Rationale for Bank Assistance

The Project was directly supportive of the 2004 Serbia and Montenegro Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) (Report 30426-YU) covering 2005 through 2007. The CAS
objectives were to provide the Government with appropriate support to undertake a
systemic reform while at the same time providing flexibility to adjust and refine
interventions on an on-going basis. The CAS indicated that improving the quality of
education would help to ensure that people had the skills to participate in economic
sectors like tourism. Poverty in Montenegro was closely linked to education attainment,
as pointed out in the 2003 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). According to the
PRSP, households headed by people who did not receive a secondary education were
three times more likely than average to be living in poverty. Alleviating poverty through
improving access and quality of services to vulnerable groups, as well as improving
efficient use of limited resources was one of the CAS main objectives.

The key challenge in Montenegro was to improve the overall efficiency and quality of
education, while improving the financial sustainability of recurrent expenditure. The
Bank's value-added was its experience in other countries of the former Yugoslavia, its
focus on quality improvement and fiscal sustainability, and its ability to bring together
other donor agencies.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The Project's development objective was to strengthen the capacity of the education
system to make continuous improvements, especially in the quality of teaching and
learning in schools and in the efficient use of budgetary resources. The attainment of the
PDO was to be measured by the following two outcome indicators:

4
·   At least 70 percent of teachers observed to be using the skills and knowledge learnt
    through training provided under the Project.
·   Elimination of education arrears and increase in non-salary recurrent expenditure
    from the State Budget to 20 percent of total government spending on primary and
    secondary education.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

No changes were made to the PDO during implementation. However, a slight adjustment
to the first outcome indicator was proposed during a workshop on monitoring and
evaluation on January 2007, to improve measuring project attribution. As such, the first
outcome objective was "narrowed" to read: In the reform schools, at least 70 percent of
teachers are observed to be using the skills and knowledge learnt through training
provided under the Project. The reason for this refinement was that training was only
provided to teachers at reform schools and the client felt that the formulation in the
indicator should unambiguously reflect this fact.

The client submitted for the Bank's clearance the refined results framework on June
2007. After consulting with the country's lawyer and the regional quality team, it was
agreed that as this change was not material or of substance to require a restructuring.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries:

The target project beneficiaries were to be teachers, school directors, and central
ministry/agency staff, who benefited from acquiring new teaching methods and practices,
using a new generation of learning materials, and engaging students in more active ways
of learning.

More broadly, all children in primary and general secondary education were to benefit
indirectly from improved education services as a result of institutional strengthening
activities supported under the Project.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The Project had two components: (i) Reform Implementation and (ii) Education Planning
and Finance.

Component 1: Reform Implementation (US$3.8 million equivalent of total estimated
cost). The component provided assistance to eligible primary and general secondary
schools included in the Education Reform Program (the Participating Schools), through
the provision of textbooks and other learning materials, staff professional development,
school equipment, minor school buildings renovations, and monitoring and evaluation of
reform activities.




5
Component 2: Education Planning and Finance (US$ 1.2 million equivalent of total
estimated cost). The component supported strengthening the capacity of the MoES and
the BES to prepare, execute, and monitor a program budget; assistance to the MoES and
the BES in the planning and implementation of the Education Reform Program;
assistance to the relevant agencies and entities of the Republic of Montenegro in the
school network; optimization of staffing levels to restructure the budget; and
determination and implementation of an effective plan for the decentralization of
education finance.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised during implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes

There were no changes in the design, scope, scale or implementation arrangements of the
Project.

There were no amendment/s to the Credit Agreement or reallocation of funds, or any
cancellation of funds. Due to the exchange rate difference, the Project got 7 percent extra
funds which were used towards project activities. There was a small remaining
unallocated budget which was used to support the participation of the Montenegrin
delegation in the 5th ECA Education Conference in Budva.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Adequacy of Government's Commitment. The Government's reform agenda was fully
in line with international good practices and focused on key issues for improving student
learning and access for currently excluded groups. Comprehensive work was performed
to prepare the Project. The Government was committed to the Reform and Project
objectives and actively participated in project preparation. The wide participation of
different stakeholders in the reform design and implementation was an important part of
project preparation.

Quality at Entry. Project Preparation was supported by US$ 379, 555 equivalent trust
funds from the Government of Japan (PHRD Grant No. TF 053327) from the
International Development Association (IDA). The funds were very useful for the
groundwork of the Project.

Comprehensive sector work was performed by the Project Team to design the Project.
The team considered various options during the initial phase of Project preparation.
Based on the Government's priorities, a Specific Investment Loan was chosen as the
lending instrument. Given that there were a number of other development partners and
international agencies already active in the education sector in the country, the team also
considered a Sector Wide Approach (SWAp) during project preparation, which was
6
assessed to be difficult to implement at that time because there were doubts with regards
to the Government's implementation capacity. However, in retrospect, the Project might
have worked well as a SWAp for the following reasons: (i) Montenegro's strong
ownership and readiness, (ii) strong donor coordination, and (iii) significant institutional
capacity strengthening. These three aspects are proven to be part of the elements of a
successful SWAp.

Peer-reviewer comments were taken into consideration during preparation. Lessons
learned from other World Bank-financed projects in the country and in the region were
included, such as: (i) promoting borrowers' ownership and stakeholders' participation to
ensure sustainability; (ii) keeping the project as simple and focused as possible; and (iii)
building the capacity of central institutions in a sustainable way.

During preparation, project design considered the key findings of the SaM (Serbia and
Montenegro) Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) dated December
2002, which noted that there were a number of risks on the management of public funds
in SaM. The risks to public funds included: (a) poor public sector financial management
in the past; (b) unfinished reforms ­ the new governments that were elected had
commenced a process of major reform; (c) capacity constraints in both the State Union
and the Republic governments; (d) weak banking sectors; (e) weak audit capacity; (f)
poor implementation capacity in line ministries; and (g) lack of recent Bank
implementation experiences in SaM. To mitigate risks, since rejoining the Bank, SaM
had used individual implementation units for each investment project, located within the
relevant line ministry or project beneficiaries. Between the publication of the CFAA in
2002 and project appraisal in 2005, the number of commercial banks assessed as
acceptable to hold special accounts had increased from three to five and the number of
firms assessed as acceptable to audit Bank-Financed projects had increased from two to
four, indicating an improvement in the fiduciary environment. While experience in
implementing Bank-financed projects was increasing, the lending portfolio was still too
young to be able to conclude that the new GoM had a solid understanding of Bank
Operations.

Assessment of Project Design. Overall, project components were well designed and in
line with the Government's objectives. High quality expert support was provided during
project preparation by both national and international experts who had solid experience of
working with education programs. The design was responsive to the country's needs and
was aligned with the major education reform that took place in 1999 which had been
formulated in the Book of Changes in 2001.
The design was simple; and the chosen indicators were consistent with the objective of
the Project. The reform called for a significant capacity building at the central level.

Assessment of Risks. The PAD identified five risks for an overall risk rating of
moderate to high, all of which were realistic and appropriately rated. The identification of
risks and the mitigation measures proved to be realistic. The risks envisaged by the
project preparation team materialized during the implementation phase and substantial



7
effort was displayed by the Government to implement proactive measures to help
mitigate these risks. The details are explained in Section 2.2.

2.2 Implementation

The Credit disbursed in full and ahead of schedule. In all the Implementation Status and
Results Reports (ISRs), the Project was rated as Highly Satisfactory except for the first
ISR, where it was rated Satisfactory. The Project was successful in delivering all of its
outputs under the two components and mostly achieving its expected outcomes. It was
also one of 60 submissions to win an award, in the 2nd Annual Improving the Lives of
People in ECA 2009 (ILPE) event; 13 other projects were amongst the winners.

The results of the Mid-term Review confirmed findings of earlier supervision missions
that project implementation and reform progress continued to be Highly Satisfactory with
strong evidence of impact in the classroom visits as documented in the aide memoires.

The Project supported teacher training reform and the development of a quality assurance
methodology to observe its impact in the classroom. It also provided the foundation for
implementing one of the most difficult changes in education financing by not only
reforming the budgeting process, but restructuring the budget so that a significant share
of resources were allocated to non-salary expenditures, including teacher training and
teaching and learning aids. New textbooks for primary and general secondary schools
were developed, relying on local and international expertise. The high quality of
expertise, available in the professional community of the country, and the wider
acceptance of the reform supported by the Project also contributed to its success.
Furthermore, the wide participation of different stakeholders in the reform design and
implementation, as well as intensive information campaigns, was an important part of
project preparation and a key factor of the success of the MERP implementation.

The Project supported capacity building at the newly established agencies, Examination
Center and Bureau for Education Services. The Bureau became a main driver in the
establishment of a system of continuous professional development for teachers, while the
Examination Center took the lead in developing and promoting a systematic student
assessment system. In May 2008 and 2009, the Examination Center conducted the
national assessment of students learning in grades 3 and 6 primary schools, while in 2009
it was piloted for 9th grade. The results of these assessments served as baseline indicators
for the Reform's progress. The national assessments will be conducted in 4 year cycles.
The Examination Center is currently preparing the introduction of the State Matura as a
standardized secondary school exit exam to facilitate access to higher education (and thus
help fight corruption at the entry level to tertiary education). Montenegro also managed to
join the Programme for International Students Assessment (PISA) which will provide the
basis for benchmarking its performance against EU and the Organization of Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries and serve as a motor for further system
enhancement.

The most significant strength, and possibly the most important and lasting legacy of the
Project has been the identification and development of a cadre of competent professionals
8
in curriculum design, educational measurement, teacher development, and textbook
quality enhancement. Their value to the Montenegrin education system and, indeed, to
educational development in the region generally, has been significant and should remain
a valued asset for the future.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


M&E Design. The Project supported the design of a M&E system that would collect data
to inform decision making and also monitor project implementation. The M&E system
was under the responsibility of the Bureau of Education Services (BES). At the project
level, baseline data was collected at the beginning of the Project for the outcome
indicators. Under each component, several output indicators were collected to measure
progress towards achieving the PDO. The design of the Results Framework was
effective, organized, and well managed to inform both parties about implementation
progress. The Bureau for Education Services is conducting impact evaluations as part of
their regular Quality Assurance process.

M&E Implementation & Utilization. Comprehensive quantitative data for key indicators
was collected during project implementation. The BES conducted annual classroom
observations under the new school quality assurance model and periodic surveys to
monitor PDO 1. The MoES and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) were responsible for
monitoring PDO 2. On an annual basis, data were collected from each agency, analyzed
systematically, documented and reported throughout the life of the Project. The ICR
benefited from the numerous studies and evaluation reports that had been conducted
during the implementation, such as: (i) Analysis of Teacher Training in Primary Schools
for the Application of New Curricula and (ii) Research into the Impacts of Training to the
Application of the Obtained Knowledge and Skills to the Active Use of Textbooks in
Teaching.

A M&E workshop was conducted by the Bank team for the Steering Committee and
other development partners a couple of years after effectiveness in February 2007. The
Bank made a presentation and M&E questions were clarified. The presentation helped
enhance the understanding and commitment to M&E and thus improve the overall quality
of the M&E system. The BES has developed a school self-evaluation model to monitor
and evaluate quality systematically and pursue improvements.

More importantly than regular monitoring and evaluation of the Project, the Government
relied on the outcomes of the Project to inform further decisions regarding education
reform in Montenegro. Extensive dissemination of reform results was undertaken during
implementation and the Government is continuing with the dissemination of results using
its own resources as part of its commitment to the MERP.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

No safeguards were triggered. The Project was classified as environmental category C.

9
A Project Coordination Unit was not established for the Project. Project implementation
was facilitated by a Technical Services Unit (TSU), established within the MoES to carry
out core procurement and financial management functions for all Bank-financed projects,
and potentially for other donor-supported projects. The TSU has a Director, a
Procurement Officer and a Finance Officer.

Financial Management

Periodic reviews by the Bank of the Project's financial management indicated that the
financial management system was appropriate and it was rated satisfactory throughout
implementation. The financial management functions were adequately staffed by
qualified and experienced professionals. Quarterly Financial Management Reports
(FMRs) were submitted to the Bank and their quality was high. Acceptable accounting
software was used for project accounting and reporting. Overall, the Project financial
statements in all material respects, sources and use of funds and special account
transactions were in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines and procedures. In terms of
financial audits, the project financial statements were audited on an annual basis by
independent auditors and all audit reports were unqualified and accepted by the Bank.


Procurement

The procurement plan was updated as needed. The procurement team was qualified and
procurement filing and control system was organized to address project needs and was
rated satisfactory throughout implementation. The TSU maintained a computerized
procurement database and all documents on procurement were filed following an
adequate logging system.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Project outcomes have high prospects for sustainability due to the fact that the Project
focused on enhancing policies and procedures which the Government already had in
place. The results have been integrated into existing and ongoing programs, which led
the MoES and the Bank's education team to discuss the possibility of further cooperation
in the field of higher education.

Prior to the closing date, the Ministry of Education and Science took the lead in
organizing and co-sponsoring with the Bank's 5th ECA Education Conference on Higher
Education Financing, a key education learning event for ECA clients.1 This event opened
1
  The conference took place on Oct 27-29, 2009 in Montenegro and was co-organized by the Bank and the
Government. The topic of the conference was highly relevant since many of the ECA countries face
challenges with regard to financing higher education and seek assistance in this field. The conference
included the presence of 150 participants, including six Ministers of Education, three deputy ministers, four
representatives of ministries of finance, ten university rectors, and other leaders of higher education
institutions.


10
the discussion for future reforms in the education sector, with a focus on higher
education.

Currently, the Bank and the Examination Center are jointly preparing a regional
assessment event in Montenegro which will provide a good opportunity for peer learning,
including on this aspect of the Montenegrin education reform.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives of the Project were and remain highly relevant. The importance of the
Project's objectives at the initial stage was supported by the strong analytical preparatory
work that preceded its preparation, both from the GoM and the Bank's side. The
Project's objectives of strengthening the capacity of the education system, to make
continuous improvements, especially in the quality of teaching and learning in schools,
and in the efficient use of budgetary resources, were consistent with the country's
development priorities and the 2005-2007 CAS and were also consistent with what the
Government already had set up in the Book of Changes.

The Project supported the reform and improvements on educational planning and
financial efficiency in different ways: (i) assuring basic conditions in schools
commencing reform (minor renovations, purchasing furniture, learning materials, and
teaching aids); (ii) training of teachers and school principals; (iii) developing new
textbooks and learning materials; (iv) developing the Continuous Professional
Development (CPD) scheme; (v) improving examination techniques; (vi) capacity
building for strategic reform planning and implementation; (vii) capacity building for
preparation, execution and monitoring of the budget; (viii) developing the Education
Management Information System (EMIS); (ix) assisting the Government to determine an
effective plan for decentralization of education finance; and (x) supporting consultations
on constrains and options with regard to the optimization of the school network.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives


Rating for outcomes: Satisfactory.

The Project's development objective was to strengthen the capacity of the education
system to: (i) make continuous improvements, especially in the quality of teaching and
learning in schools; and (ii) in the efficient use of budgetary resources. Each of the two
elements of the DO was to be measured by one outcome indicator and some intermediate
indicators. The ICR team concluded that the achievement of the development objective
is rated as Satisfactory on the basis of the Project having overachieved one of its outcome
indicators and made significant improvement toward achieving the other one, as detailed
below.


11
Overall, the implementation of the comprehensive education reform supported by the
Project depended on the capacity for strategic planning, budgeting, managing, and
monitoring that was established by the Government. The underlying objective of the
Project was to strengthen these capacities in institutions and to strengthen the policies and
procedures which the Government already had in place, so as to improve efficiency and
effectiveness in the education system.


The first part of the development objective, to strengthen the capacity of the
education system to make continuous improvements especially in the quality of
teaching and learning in schools, was to be measured by the fact that in the reform
schools at least 70 percent of the teachers should be using the skills and knowledge
learnt through the training provided under the Project. According to an evaluation
study carried out by BES in 2008, about 75 percent of teachers were observed to be using
new skills and knowledge in the classroom, thus exceeding the target. During ICR
preparation, classroom visits and interviews confirmed the high assimilation of these new
techniques among teachers.

The aim was for the teachers to: (i) improve their knowledge (theoretical and
methodological) and skills in practice, and (ii) understand expectations of the new role of
a teacher and their new positions in education in general and in the teaching process.

The Project supported teacher training and the development of a quality assurance
methodology to observe its impact in the classroom. A large number of teachers have
strengthened their teaching skills by acquiring improved teaching methods. The
improvement in teaching is visible at several levels.

An evaluation research study took place in 2005 by the BES as part of monitoring of the
reform in the first phase of implementation to be used as a baseline. The evaluation
confirmed that the majority of teachers being trained managed the following: (i) planning
of the teaching/learning process while taking into consideration curriculum standards and
students' educational needs; (ii) collaborating between primary school teachers and pre-
school teachers contributing to the learning process; and (iii) promoting students to spend
about half of their learning time in group work, students participating in different kinds of
learning activities in most cases appropriate for learning goals. The evaluation found that
the classroom setting was much improved and it was more child friendly. In 2008, a
most recent research conducted by BES shows that 75 percent of teachers use the skills
and knowledge acquired in training courses under the reform.

ICR site visits to schools, interviews with the principals and teaching staff validated these
observations and showed a high degree of approval towards the reform process in general
and training provided under the reform in particular. The involved staff members were
trained before their school started the reform to ensure that the teachers were well
prepared to initiate the reform. The visits and interviews showed that the teaching
strategies have changed towards a student-centered teaching and individual learning
process in the reform classes. The classrooms themselves were arranged in a different

12
way prior to the reform. Round tables were being used thereby promoting discussions
and interactions among students. Based on this information, the ICR team concluded that
the reform has reached the classroom level, and that most teachers are successfully
implementing the new curriculum and using skills and knowledge from the teacher
trainings.


The second part of the development objective, to strengthen the capacity of the education
system in the efficient use of budgetary resources was to be measured by the elimination
of education arrears and increase in non-salary recurrent expenditure from the State
Budget to 20 percent of total government spending on primary and secondary education.
By project closing, arrears were almost eliminated, dropping from 10 percent to
1.21 percent of the budget. At the same time, the Government was only able to
increase non-salary expenditures from 5.4 percent to 6.67 percent thus not achieving
this objective. There are two reasons for the Government's inability to achieve these
outcome indicators. First, in 2009 the country was directly affected by the global
economic crisis, resulting in cuts in the overall government budget. Second, the
Government prioritized capital expenditures for the rehabilitation and construction of
education expenditures. This caused the increase of capital expenditures at the expense of
a faster increase of non-salary recurrent expenditures. The team notes that the budget
data previously provided by the Government included a calculation mistake, which had
previously led the Bank's team to consider this outcome achieved and rate it accordingly
                      2
in the Project's ISR.


3.3 Efficiency

An economic analysis for the Montenegro Education Reform Project (MERP) was not
carried out for this ICR. The MERP was mostly an institutional capacity building
operation, with expected long-term impacts in the sector's efficiency and effectiveness.
The Project supported the reform agenda initiated by the Government in 1999, mostly by
financing relevant technical assistance and training to guide, strengthen and support the
Government's efforts. Government reforms supported by the Bank sought to increase
efficiency in the sector through, inter alia, optimization of classrooms, reduction in
student repetition, increased student-teacher ratios, etc.

Data presented in this report show that the Project contributed to the overall
strengthening of the education sector by (i) assuring basic learning conditions in selected
schools by financing minor renovations, furniture and equipment, learning materials, and
teaching aids; (ii) financing training of teachers and school principals; (iii) supporting

2
  Earlier Government reports on recurrent expenditure data showed that non-salary recurrent expenditures
had achieved the Project's target, thus leading the Bank's team to consider this outcome indicator achieved
in the last Implementation Supervision Report (ISR). However, a recent Bank review of that data identified
a calculation mistake --the MoES included into their initial calculation of non-salary recurrent cost some
items that should have been excluded (i.e. other compensation of employees and capital expenditures).


13
the development of new textbooks; (iv) supporting the introduction of a continuous
professional development scheme; and (v) promoting student assessments as an
instrument to measure the impact of teaching in the classrooms, as well as enabling
important international comparisons. As part of the overall education reform, these
interventions are expected to lead to improved sector performance. Additionally, during
visits to school, the ICR team was repeatedly told by principals and teachers that the
availability of textbooks and teaching materials in the classroom resulted in an increase in
productivity as well as an increase in the level of satisfaction among school staff.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The Project's overall outcome is considered Satisfactory for the following reasons. First,
the Project was highly relevant both in terms of the Government's overall strategy and
objectives and in being aligned with the CAS. Second, the Project exceeded one outcome
indicator and partially achieved the other. Third, the Project was implemented efficiently,
supporting changes of a systemic nature and capacity development from which the
Montenegro education system will profit in the long run.

With the Bank's assistance, the Government strengthened teaching and learning through
improved quality assurance and student assessment as follows:

·    Teacher training has been reformed and quality assurance procedures established.
     During the last classroom observations, the Government concluded that 75 percent of
     trained teachers were using newly acquired skills in the classroom.

·    While previously only 17 percent of textbooks were available at the start of the school
     year, now all textbooks are available on time.

·    Several schools were renovated and furnished, and the Bureau of Education Services
     (BES) received necessary equipments in order to be able to contribute to the
     implementation of the reform.

·    The newly-established Examination Center and the Bureau of Educational Services
     (BES) have received support to develop their capacity and mechanisms for system
     monitoring and planning.

·    Montenegro has joined a key international learning assessment (Programme for
     International Student Assessment - PISA) and also performs national assessments.

·    There was an increase, albeit small, in non-salary expenditures on teacher training
     and learning aids. Arrears in the education budget were significantly reduced to 1.21
     percent.



14
Overall, the Project provided substantial results in a short period of time (four years).
Moreover, most of the targets were achieved relatively early in the life of the Project.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The Project was not explicitly designed as a poverty-targeted operation. However, the
free textbook scheme targeted lower income students. A decision was made by the
Strategy and Planning Unit to provide free textbooks to all socially disadvantaged pupils
(including minority students). An intensive public information campaign was undertaken
to encourage low income students and their parents to apply for the free of charge
textbooks. The procedure was very well designed and special attention was paid to
putting mechanisms in place to avoid stigmatization of students who received free
textbooks.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The Project's design stressed capacity building of key agencies in a sustainable way. In
particular, the successful focus of strengthening the capacity of the MoES to implement
program budgeting and eliminate its arrears created a sustainable source of funding for
quality improvement activities at the school level.

The Project financed significant investments in capacity building for:

(i) the Examination Center by supporting development of an external assessment system
for Montenegro, including preparation and implementation of the National Assessment,
preparation and delivery of the external exam at the end of the nine-year primary school
and preparation for the Matura exam at the end of secondary education.

(ii) the Department of Textbook Publishing by providing support to the development of
new textbooks and production, assuring that all students had their textbooks available on
time.

(iii) the Bureau of Education Services by providing support to the organization of the
teacher and school director training, and school evaluation activities.

All of these organizations remain as important elements of the education sector of
Montenegro.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The Reform Steering Committee, established to provide guidance and to monitor the
implementation of the Project, continued to exist after project closing, and has extended
its scope beyond primary and general secondary education reform to Higher Education.


15
The Committee comprises the heads of the implementing agencies and representatives of
development partners. It is chaired by the Minister of Education and Science.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible

The risk to Development Outcome is rated Negligible. Project activities are fully
incorporated into the existing government programs and adequate funding has been
allocated in MoES' budget to continue these programs. Therefore, the sustainability of
the Project's investments and, more broadly, of Project's outcomes are assured because
of lasting capacity enhancement at MoES and agencies, continuity of key personnel, and
the far-reaching restructuring of the education budget towards an increase of non-salary
expenditures.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry


Rating: Satisfactory

The main strength of Project design and preparation laid in the ability to accurately
identify the reform needs of the country and to prepare well for their implementation.
The Project was designed to strengthen the capacity of the education system in
Montenegro based on an existing reform agenda, which was developed in 2001.
Furthermore, using the advice from peer reviewers and paying thoughtful attention to
quality and efficiency issues. The robustness and simplicity of the design allowed the
Project to be completed without any major adjustment.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

A decentralized model of Project supervision from the Bank's side was very effective.
The task team leaders (TTLs) were based in Europe. It allowed the Bank to maintain a
close relationship with the counterparts on a regular basis. The Bank's team was on site
on a regular basis, in addition to attending the bi-annual Steering Committee meeting.
During each supervision mission, data was collected from each agency and documented
regularly throughout the entire period of the Project. There were two task team leaders
between preparation and project closing, and the transition between the two was well-



16
organized and coordinated. The consistency of team leadership kept the momentum of
the implementation going smoothly.

The permanent presence of Bank staff in the Sarajevo office provided continuity and
helped maintain ongoing supervision of project performance, as well as a continuous
policy dialogue with main counterparts. The Bank's team invested time and effort to
develop close cooperation with the Government. Bank involvement was systematic
during and between missions to ensure that issues were timely identified and properly
addressed. Close monitoring allowed systematic guidance in addition to collecting data
and proactively conduct reality checks in the ground.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank provided strong technical support to help the Government to achieve the
successful implementation of the education reform agenda. The Project played an
important catalyst role in helping ensure a comprehensive approach to the
implementation of the reform agenda. The Bank's overall performance is rated
Satisfactory because of:

·    The high quality of Project design that ensured a high quality at entry.
·    The appropriate supervision support, thus addressing issues on a timely manner.
·    The strong relationship developed by the Bank team with all participating
     government agencies which contributed to the successful and timely implementation
     of activities.
·    The promotion of wide participation of different stakeholders in the reform design
     and implementation of the reforms.


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The high level of engagement and support from the Government for the education reform
at all levels of the system was a key aspect for the success of the Project. The Project
was an integral part of the Government's vision and reform agenda. The Government
demonstrated its full commitment to program objectives by accelerating implementation
of the Project and moving forward with achieving desired results. During the last year of
implementation, the Minister was changed but because of strong commitment by other
management and staff of the Ministry, the reform momentum and the implementation of
project activities were not affected.

Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance


17
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Overall project coordination was the responsibility of the International Cooperation Unit
(ICU) established within the MoES. The ICU was staffed with experienced and dynamic
staff. The ICU was also responsible for planning, budgeting, and implementing activities
related to school infrastructure and equipment. The BES was responsible for development
and implementation of the teacher training. The Examination Center was responsible for
supporting the development of an external assessment system in Montenegro, as well as
preparation and implementation of the National Assessment study. The Textbook
department was responsible for the development of the new textbooks and making sure
that the books were available on time to every student, and The TSU was responsible for
procurement and financial management.

The Project established from the outset a strong partnership with other development
partners active in the education sector in Montenegro (Finnish government, the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA), and Foundation Open Society Institute ­
Representative Office Montenegro (FOSI ROM). That strong cooperation was sustained
during the implementation period. The Government of Montenegro received a Japanese
grant (PHRD Grant No. TF 053327) from the International Development Association
(IDA), for the preparation of the Montenegro Education Reform Project, the funds were
very useful for the appropriate preparation for the MERP.


 (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The Government invested substantial resources and demonstrated a high level of
commitment to the implementation of the Project. Its commitment, demonstrated from
the outset of preparation, continued throughout implementation thereby ensuring high
consistency and compliance with agreements reached with the Bank in terms of
implementation modalities and the achievement of development objectives and outcomes.

6. Lessons Learned

     ·   Strategically placed interventions can have a large impact even when the
         resources are not significant. With a loan in the amount of US$5 million
         equivalent, the World Bank was able to support an important reform in
         Montenegro, sharing its international experience and providing on-demand
         advice. By project closing, the Government had established a strong foundation
         for continuous improvements in primary and secondary education.
.
     ·   Simplicity in design enhances the likelihood of success. While education
         reforms are complex to implement, projects do not have to be. The Government
         and the Bank's team designed a project that was simple and supported


18
         strategically selected interventions (as stated above), thus focusing the Bank's
         resources in these areas.

     ·   Education reforms should be preceded and accompanied by stakeholder
         consultations so as to build consensus and generate support. Information and
         data should be used as a tool to inform stakeholders and gain their support for
         difficult decisions that are part of the process. Stakeholder involvement in
         evaluation and planning, through governance bodies like the multi-donor Steering
         Committee for this project, is vital for successful and sustainable projects.

     ·   Bank-financed projects that perform well are buoyed by strong commitment
         from the Government and stakeholders, complemented by clear project
         objectives and achievable outcomes.

     ·   Successful education reforms require: (a) sequenced implementation; (b)
         allocation of appropriate resources; and (c) backing up by coordinated efforts
         of all actors in the sector.




19
Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

This ICR was reviewed by the Government in June 2010 and they informed the Bank that
they were in full agreement with the report.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


       (Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                 Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal
                                                 Estimate         %age of
                                Estimate (USD
Components                                       (USD             Appraisal
                                millions)
                                                 millions)
Reform Implementation           3.80             4.69             123.53%
Education Planning and Finance 1.20              0.65             54.01%

Total Baseline Cost              5.00            5.34             106.85%
Physical Contingencies           0.00            0.00             0.00
Price Contingencies              0.00            0.00             0.00
Total Project Costs              5.00            5.34             107%
Front-end fee PPF                0.00            0.00             0.00
Front-end fee IBRD               0.00            0.00             0.00
Total Financing Required         5.00            5.34             107%


       Financing
                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                            Type of       Estimate      Estimate        %age of
Source of Funds             Cofinancing   (USD          (USD            Appraisal
                                          millions)     millions)
Borrower                                  0.00          0.00            0.00
International Development
                                          5.00          5.34            106.85%
Association (IDA)




21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component 1: Reform Implementation
(US$ 4.69 of total actual costs)


IO Indicator 1: Textbooks for participating schools available on time (i.e. before the
beginning of the school year available for purchase in shop; for socially disadvantage,
including minority students, available in the classroom). (100% achieved)

 Based on the Bureau of Education Services (BES) reports, all planned textbooks and
learning materials have been produced and delivered before the beginning of the school
year available for purchase in shop; for socially disadvantaged students they are available
in the classroom via a rental scheme. The Department for Textbook Publishing (DTP)
established good procedures to review the quality of textbooks during the preparation
phase and the Department was open to feedback from users. However, during the MTR
mission, the Bank team was told that some schools considered the translations of the
Albanian textbooks insufficient; this issue was resolved afterwards as the DTP paid
particular attention to the new textbooks in Albanian language and new translators were
hired for this matter. By taking these measures, the textbook department addressed the
concerns that were raised during the MTR with regard to the quality of textbook in
Albanian language.

The Department of Textbook Publishing completed its main task in the first phase of
education reform in Montenegro. The basic textbooks are provided in Montenegrin for
the nine year elementary school and high school. The basic textbooks are provided in
Albanian language from 1st grade of elementary school to 4th grade of high school.
The tables below show the number of sets published during the period of the Project.


Publication of Textbooks 2004-2009
Published Textbook Sets in Montenegrin
2004       Grade I of the elementary schools                                       6 sets
2005       Grades II and VI of the elementary schools                              16 sets
2006       Grades III and VII of the elementary schools and grade I of high        28 sets
           schools
2007       Grades IV and VIII of the elementary schools and grade II of high       29 sets
           schools
2008       Grades V and IX of the elementary school and grade III of high          28 sets
           schools
2009       Grade IV of high school                                                 6 sets




22
Publication of Textbooks 2004-2009
Published Textbook Sets in Albanian Language
2005      Grade I of the elementary schools                                       6 sets
2006      Grades II and VI of the elementary schools                              16 sets
2007      Grades III and VII of the elementary schools and grade I of high        28 sets
          schools
2008      Grades IV and VIII of the elementary schools and grade II of high       29 sets
          schools
2009      Grades V and IX of the elementary school and grade III of high          27 sets
          schools


IO Indicator 2: In reform schools, over 90% of students actively use textbooks in class.
(98% achieved)

In a study carried out in 2008 by the BES, in a sample of participating schools, the
proportion of students observed to actively use textbooks exceeded 90%. According to
teachers and students, new textbooks, activity books and handbooks meet their quality
criteria and they are actively used in schools and reportedly also at home. At school,
teachers use the textbooks most often when they teach a new lesson. For learning at
home, primary school teachers use the textbooks to assign students homework, while in
secondary education, students most often use the textbooks at school and at home to learn
the contents of the new lessons. However, within the first two years of Project
implementation, research done by BES on textbook usage showed that only 85% of
primary school students and 72% of secondary school students used the textbooks, an
issue to which attention was devoted to.

IO Indicator 3: Renovation of schools and delivery of equipment to all participating
schools is completed before the start of each school year.

IO Indicator 3 was fully achieved. School refurbishment activities under the Project have
been successfully completed for the 2007/08 and 2008/2009 school year; 42 schools have
been renovated and fully furnished. It was an important objective of the Project to assure
that basic conditions in schools in terms of quality of buildings (minor renovations),
furniture/learning materials were provided on time to all the schools undergoing the
reform.

IO Indicator 4: Education quality improvement is planned based on recommendations
gathered through the school quality assurance model, as well as on the basis of students'
achievements.

IO Indicator 4 was fully achieved. The main objective of the Education Reform Project is
to transform the schools into modern learning institutions. Within this reform framework,

23
development and implementation of a school self-evaluation model becomes an
important factor for the quality assurance system in the reformed education system. The
BES developed a school self-evaluation model, guidance for implementation and
management of self-evaluation in the school, instruments necessary for school self-
evaluation, and a model for school development plans for a 3 year period.

The MERP tackled capacity building of the Examination Center in which it supported the
development of an external assessment system in Montenegro, as well as preparation and
implementation of the National Assessment study, and supported the preparation and
delivery of the external final exam at the end of the nine-year elementary school.

All four indicators met the expectations achieving the goals set up at the beginning of the
Project. With regard to the number of teachers trained, the original goal of 70% was
achieved, with a total of 75% of teachers observed to be using the skills and knowledge
learned through training provided. Also in terms of availability of textbooks for
participating schools, the goal of 100% was reached. Students from lower income were
grateful to receive the textbooks free of charge; this was a decision made by the Strategy
and Planning Unit during Project implementation.


Component 2: Education Planning and Finances
(US$ .65 total costs)


IO Indicator 5: Each year, the MOES and BES program budgets are provided to MOF
on time and having been prepared in accordance with instructions, following
consultations with international agencies active in the education sector.

IO Indicator 5 was fully achieved ahead of time. Each year the program budget was
delivered on time and in accordance with guidelines. The program budget and Mid-term
Expenditure Framework were piloted and implemented by MoES. The Ministry of
Finance expressed its satisfaction with the quality and timeliness of the Program Budget
preparation to the Bank team. Capacity building was delivered by a Canadian company
which was already familiar with the Montenegro education reform.

The Strategic Plan of Education Reform 2005-2009 was developed jointly by the MoES,
BES, Examination Center, and Center for Vocational Education and Training (VET)
including consultation with different stakeholders. The final version of the Strategic Plan
was adopted by the GoM on May 2006. Capacity for planning, budgeting, management,
and monitoring within these key educational institutions at the central level improved
significantly. Mutual understanding and coordination of work within the key institutions
also improved significantly, partially through the MERP Steering Committee

IO Indicator 6: Satisfactory progress is made in implementing the plan to eliminate
arrears, which is agreed with MOF and adjusted annually by Jan 1st.



24
IO Indicator was partially achieved. Significant improvement has been made in the first
three years of implementation, arrears dropped noticeably from 10% (see PAD) to 3.56%
of planned budget in the year 2006. Each year arrears dropped until they reached 1.21%
of the budget.




25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Not applicable.




26
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
Names                      Title                              Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Tanja Boskovic             Consultant                         ECSHD
                           Senior Resource Management
Michael Gascoyne                                              CSRRM
                           Off
Carmen F. Laurente         Senior Program Assistant           ECSHD
Zorica Lesic               Operations Officer                 ECSHD
Nina Arnhold               Sr Education Spec                  ECSHD
Tobias Linden              Sr Education Spec., TTL            ECSHD
Gennady Pilch              Sr Counsel                         LEGES
Pasi J. E. Sahlberg        Sr Education Spec.                 ECSHD
Yingwei Wu                 Senior Procurement Specialist      ECSPS
Supervision/ICR
Ivana Aleksic              Human Development Specialist       ECSHD
Tanja Boskovic             Consultant                         ECSHD
Aleksandar Crnomarkovic    Financial Management Specialis     ECSPS
Edward Daoud               Consultant                         IADDR
Joseph Paul Formoso        Lead Finance Officer               LOADM
Michael Gascoyne           Sr Resource Management Off         CSRRM
Nikola Kerleta             Procurement Analyst                ECSPS
Siegfried Kiefer           Consultant                         ECSHD
Carmen F. Laurente         Sr Program Assistant               ECSHD
Zorica Lesic               Operations Officer                 ECSHD
Tobias Linden              Sr Education Spec.                 ECSHD
Gennady Pilch              Sr Counsel                         LEGES
Sreypov Tep                Program Assistant                  ECSHD
Danijela Vukajlovic-Grba   Economist                          ECSPE
Yingwei Wu                 Sr Procurement Specialist          ECSPS
Nina Arnhold               Sr Education Specialist            ECSHD


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY04                                                          35.9

27
FY05              119.3


Total:            155.2
Supervision/ICR
FY05              0.9
FY06              67. 8
FY07              121.2
FY08              94.5
FY09              103.3
FY10              56.1

Total:            443.8




28
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Not applicable.




29
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not applicable.




30
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Comments provided by the Ministry of Education and Science received on March, 2010.

Introduction

Montenegro Education Reform Project (MERP) became effective on July 24th 2005, after
14 months of negotiation period, during which, all project components and lines within
components were very well designed.

The total amount of the loan was EUR 3.83 million that is US$ 5 million.

Project implementation started one year later than the implementation of the reform
proposals at the school level, which commenced in certain schools in school year 2004/05
and it was dedicated to the general education reform in "selected schools."

The main beneficiaries of the Project were:

     1)   Ministry of Education and Science;
     2)   Bureau for Educational Services;
     3)   Textbooks and Teaching Aids Department;
     4)    Examination Centre and
     5)   "Selected schools".

The overall rating of the Project relevance and implementation by the Borrower`s side is
marked as satisfactory and its achievements were also recognized by the World Bank in
the prize "Improving the Lives of People in Europe and Central Asia", awarded in
January 2009.

Compliance and contribution of the MERP to the government policy for education
reform

Implementation of the Project started after the entire vision of the reformed education
system was developed and agreed upon among key stakeholders. The main ideas were
presented in the White Paper ("Book of Changes") published in 2001. The overarching
aim of reform efforts is to provide education that promotes development, supports
inclusiveness and participation, meets individual needs, provides individuals with the
opportunities for freedom of thought, and provides a basis for the development of youth
and adults who respect human rights, the legal state, democracy and tolerance

In addition to this, new legislation was developed and put in place, while main steps to be
taken regarding the achievement of defined aims and tasks were also defined and
officially adopted by the Government of Montenegro, as presented in the document titled
"Strategic Plan for Education reform for Period 2005-2009."

31
Respectively, MERP served as a very significant and effective tool for implementation of
the strategic actions defined by the Government and enabled implementation of the
Government policy all over the country, since all project activities defined in
Procurement Plan, were fully in line with overall reform and main principles given in
Book of Changes. Due to the fact that Project was directed toward general education, it
contributed to the implementation of proposals for elementary school and secondary
schools implementing gymnasia curricula as these were involved in the implementation
process, based on the timeline defined and adopted by the Ministry of Education and
Science.

Project implementation- General information

The Project management

At the very beginning, the decision had been made that project management and
implementation would be made a constituent part of the daily functioning of the Ministry
of Education and Science, sending in this way clear message that Project was part of the
bigger picture and that it belonged to its beneficiaries, rather than to group of people
being based outside of beneficiary institutions. In line with this beneficiary approach, a
Project Coordination Unit for the MERP project was not established, like it was a case in
other projects related to WB loans, so Ministry`s staff from the International Cooperation
Unit (3 persons) took over responsibilities within this project, as a part of their regular
daily activities, and were not paid additionally for this purpose.

During the implementation period, a very good and interactive communication with WB
management was developed, regardless of several changes within WB team, which often
brought introduction of new Team Leader. Anyhow, neighborhood Sarajevo office had a
huge role in the implementation process, especially at the very beginning, supporting
Ministry`s employees in defining issues regarding different WB procedures.

At the same time, a very useful mechanism for clearly flow of activities, payments and
procurement was a good cooperative relation with a Technical Service Unit (TSU).
Unfortunately, in the last year (2009), resignations of all units made contracting and
financing activities within the project difficult, which reflected on certain delays of
several payments.

Reform Steering Committee had a regular review meeting on a 6- month basis to review
progress made in the education reform and to plan further activities. The review process
is done jointly by representatives of the MoES, BES, BTTM, ECM, Education Councils
and international organizations. This body, established at the beginning of the MERP
project, is a very important part of organizational structure for the reform
implementation, but, at the same time, for the smooth implementation of Project.




32
Project implementation -Activities by component

Component 1. Reform Implementation:

This component included activities focused on providing support to implementation of
the current education reform in Montenegro. Under this component, support was
provided to primary and general secondary "participating" schools included in the
Government's reform program. The Project covered various parts of the package of
interventions that reform schools received, such as: provision of free textbooks for
socially deprived pupils, participation in PISA assessment, school furniture and learning
materials, staff professional development (for teachers and school directors) and minor
renovations (such as repairing roofs, heating, water and sewerage systems, windows,
painting, making rooms more secure, etc.). The existing institutions were responsible for
implementation of the project activities: Bureau for Educational Services was responsible
for organizing teacher and school director training; Ministry of Education and Science
was responsible for delivery of free textbooks, equipment, but also to meet renovation
needs of schools; Textbook Department took care for textbook development; and
Examination Center (which was established during the project) developed the National
Assessments studies and became responsible for PISA implementation.

Activities implemented within Component resulted are as follows:
   · 439 number of new prepared textbooks titles designed for implementation of new
        curricula, both in Montenegrin and Albanian language;
   · 234 trainings for teachers;
   · 30 trainings for school directors;
   · All primary and secondary schools with learning materials and teaching aids;
   · Free textbooks delivered to socially deprived students;
   · All primary schools and gymnasiums equipped with school furniture;
   · 17 primary school buildings renovated;
   · Capacity development in the BES is further developed;
   · Capacity development in the EC further developed.

Component 2. Strategic Planning and Education Financing:

Through this component several issues were addressed:
      · Capacity building for preparation, execution and monitoring of program
          budget;
      · Support the Strategy and Planning Unit to plan and implement the reform
          more effectively;
      · Support the rationalization of the school network and staffing levels to
          restructure the budget; and
      · Assistance to determine an effective plan for decentralization of education
          finance.

Within the component few important improvements were achieved:

33
     ·   The Strategic Plan of Education Reform 2005-2009 was developed jointly by the
         MoES, BES, ECM, BTTM, and Center for Vocational Education and Training
         (VET) including consultation with different stakeholders. The final version of the
         Strategic Plan was adopted by the GoM on May 2006 (technical documentation
         was prepared and procurement procedure initiated for printing the Strategic Plan
         in official and English languages)
     ·   Capacity for planning, budgeting, management, and monitoring within these key
         educational institutions at central level improved significantly
     ·   Mutual understanding and coordination of work within the key institutions also
         improved significantly

Implementation of the project -assessment of the operation's objective, design,
implementation, and operational experience

The MERP project contributed to the implementation and improvement of educational
planning and financial efficiency in different ways: assuring some basic conditions in
schools commencing reform (minor renovations, purchasing furniture and learning
materials and teaching aids); training for teachers and school principals; development of
new textbooks and learning materials; development of a Continuous Professional
Development (CPD) scheme; development of a Quality Assurance system; capacity
building for National Assessment and Examination; capacity building for strategic reform
planning and implementation; capacity building for preparation, execution and
monitoring of the budget; development of the Education Management Information
System (EMIS); education finance decentralization policy and appropriate training for
staff in the MoES, Ministry of Finance, municipalities, and schools; and optimization of
the school network.

In line with Mid-term Report done in 2007 by an independent evaluator, reform
implementation progress successfully toward project objectives was assessed as very
satisfactory. As a key reason for the success, the evaluator states the following:

     ·   Clear vision of what kind of education system needs to be developed in
         Montenegro (which incorporates relevant international experience).
     ·   Existence of thoughtful plan for phased implementation which takes into
         consideration various conditions and constraints.
     ·   Education reform receiving strong support from the Government in the longer
         period since it is among political priorities of the Government.
     ·   Strong and competent leadership within MoES and other professional institutions
         at the central level.
     ·   High level of transparency of the reform process.
     ·   Wide participation of different stakeholders in the reform design and
         implementation.
     ·   Strong commitment and expertise of employees in professional institutions at the
         central level.


34
     ·   Good collaboration between MoES and professional institutions with Technical
         Service Unit (TSU) in procurement planning and realization (procurement,
         contracting and payment).



Evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the preparation and
implementation of the operation, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may
be helpful in the future

Considering that success of the Project very much depends on the full ownership of all
stakeholders in the process, after the signing of the Sub-Agreement on the Credit for
Implementation of Montenegro Education System Reform Project and after the official
launching of the Project, the Ministry of Education and Science and the Bureau for
Educational Services signed Cooperation Protocol on implementation of the MERP
project, which defined the Bureau`s responsibilities for the part of the project lines which
were directly linked with competency of that institution. This Protocol relieved duties for
the Ministry, but, at the same time, it promoted a better understanding of the different
methods in procurement and payments, which brings more a active role of Bureau`s staff
and their capacity development in financial operational procedures, since funds allocated
for the certain project lines, where planned and programmed through its annual budget.

Even though the absence of an external PIU initiates a lot of additional work and
responsibilities for staff in Bureau and Ministry, this could be assessed as one of the
major indicators for success of entire project.


Evaluation of the performance of the bank, any co- financiers, or of other partners
during the preparation and implementation of the operation, including the
effectiveness of their relationships, with special emphasis on lessons learned

Project activities were 100% financed from the Loan, which ease actual processing of all
payments within the Project.

The Government of Montenegro received Japanese grant (PHRD Grant No. TF 053327)
from the International Development Association (IDA), for the preparation of
Montenegro Education Development Project. This grant was limited to USD 379,555 and
it was available through period April 22, 2004 to September 30, 2005. Funds allocated
for this purpose were very useful mechanism for appropriate preparation of the future
MERP project.

At the beginning and before of MERP implementation, all the active donor community
was also indirectly involved in preparation, in order to avoid any overlapping in their
support, but also to provide inputs from which MERP also could benefit. CIDA has
agreed to coordinate a joint assessment of capacity building needs, including those
related with the responsibilities of PIU.

35
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




36
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Bank-related documents:
1. Project Concept Document (PCN)
2. Minutes from the Quality Enhancement Review, November17, 2004
3. Minutes from the Project Concept Review Meeting, Sep, 17, 2004
4. Minutes from the Decision Package Review Meeting,
5. Summary of Technical Discussions and Negotiations, Feb 22, 2005
6. Project Appraisal Document, March, 7, 2005
7. Credit Agreement, April, 25, 2005
8. Supplemental Letter to the Credit Agreement, April, 25, 2005
10. Implementation Supervision and Results Reports (04/07/2004 through 06/19/2009)
11. Aide Memoires from Project-related Missions (July 2004 through May 2009)
12. Audit Reports (2005 through 2009 (draft))
13. Financial Monitoring Reports
14. Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet, January 15, 2005
15. Project Information Document (PID) January 18, 2005
16. Country Assistance Strategy Report (CAS) December, 2004
17. Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) December, 2002

Instruments used for monitoring and evaluation purposes:
1. Analysis of Teacher Training in Primary Schools in Montenegro for the Application of
the New Curricula (2004-2006)
2. Research about Teacher Training Impact on Use of Knowledge and Skills and on
Active Use of Textbooks in Teaching and Learning Process, 2008
3. Steering Committee Presentations Documents

Documents produced by Project Implementation Unit:
1. Report: The Strategic Plan of BES. December 7th, 2004
2. EDRP Mid-Term Review: Years 2005-2006, 2007
3. Strategy for Introduction of Textbook Rental Scheme and Free Textbooks Provision in
Montenegro

Other Background Documents:
1. Strategic Plan for Education Reform September, 2nd 2004
2. A Report on the Progress towards the Achievement of the MDG in Montenegro
August, 16th 2004
3.EDP/CIDA: Education Reform Support Opportunity Assessment: Mission to
Montenegro. "Universalia", July, 2004
4. The Book of Changes, Ministry of Education and Science




37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 34825
                                                                                       19°E

                                                                                                                                                                                        M O N TE N EG RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                                                                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                  RIVERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                  MAIN HIGHWAYS



                                                        a
                                                        in
                                                     Dr
                                                                                                                                                                                                  MAIN ROADS
         BOSNIA AND                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                  RAILROADS
        HERZEGOVINA                                                                        Cehotin
                                                                                                                                Priboj

                                                                                                                                                               To                                 OPSTINA (MUNICIPALITY) BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                    a
                                                                    To                                                                                        Priboj
                                                                   Foca                        Gradac
                                                                                                                                                                                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                   Pljevlja



                                                                                                 Ljubisnja                                                                                              20°E
                                                                                                 (2238 m)
                                                                          Du
                                                         Bioc
                                                         (2396 m)
                                                                                rm              v
                                                                                                Zabljak
                                                                                                                                                                                                       SERBIA
                                                                                     ito                                        ´
                                                                                                                         Durdevica
                                                                                           r                             Tara
                                                                                                                                                 San
                                                                   Rudinice                                                                               dzak
                          To                        Goransko
                                                                    Kom




                                                                                                                                                                v
                         Foca                                                                                                                              Tomasevo
                                                                       ari




                                                                                                                                       Ta                                           Bijelo Polje
                                                         Bajovo            a                                       Sin                    ra
                                                                           nc




                                                           Polje                                                         jaj
43°N                                                                                                                           evi
                                                                                           Savnik                                          na
                                                                                                                                                                     Mojkovac                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Vucitrn

   To
  Mostar                                                                          Zeta                                                                                                                                 v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Rozaje
                                                                                               Gvozd                                                             v
                                                                                                                                                                                  Ivangrad
                                                                                                               Kapa                                         Kolasin
                                         Velimlje                                                            Moracka
                                                                                   v
                           Petrovi ´
                           Petrovici                                                 `
                                                                                Niksic                       (2227 m)                                                    v
                                                                                                                                                               Matesevo
                                Vilusi
                                                                                                                                                     v
                                                                                                                                                                                         Andrijevica
                                                                                                        Morakovo                      Medurijecje
        To                                                                                                                                                                    Komovi                                            To
     Dubrovnik                                                                                                                                                               (2656 m)                                         Dakovica
                                            Grahovo
                                                                                                                                                         Lijeva Rijeka                   Murino
                                                                                                                                ca
                                                                                  Ze




                                                                                                                              M o ra
                                                                                     ta
                                                                                      a




                                                                                                                                             Pelev                                                     Plav
   To
                                 Crkvice                                                       Danilovgrad
Dubrovnik                                                                                                      v                                                                        Gusinje
                                   Risan                                                                  Spuz                         v
                                                     Perast                                                                    Bioce
                              Herceg-
                              Novi
                                          Tivat           Kotor                                                       PODGORICA
                                Radovi´ci                                                                                                   vn a
                                                                                                                                 ije
                                                               Cetinje                                                     Tuzi C


                                                                                                                Plavnica                                                          ALBANIA
                                                                         Sveti
                                                       Budva
                                                                         Stefan                Virpazar


                                                                Petrovac                                            Lake
                         A dr ia t ic                                                                              Scutari
                                                                                                 Stari Bar
                            Sea                                                      Bar                                                                    Shkodër


42°N
                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                            un                           To
                                                                                                                                       -B                               Kukes
                                                                                                                               a




    0       5       10   15       20 Kilometers                                                                                                                                         MONTENEGRO
                                                                                                                              Bojan




                                                                                                    Ulcinj

    0           5          10            15         20 Miles                                                  Sveti Nikola


                                                                                                                                                                           To
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                          Tirane
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                19°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JULY 2006
39
