Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3810 
Operation Name 
Madagascar Fifth Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Governance; Education; Nutrition; Health; Rural water supply 
Project ID 
P105135 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget (MEFB) 
Date PID Prepared 
April 8, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 7, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 26, 2008 
Background 
 
In 2007 Madagascar continued to make satisfactory progress in implementing its poverty reduction strategy with 
good progress in the implementation of the roads program, Education for All, nutrition, and health. Economic 
growth in 2007 estimated at 6.3 percent, was driven by strong secondary sector growth but agricultural growth 
was disappointing.  The start up of construction of two large mining projects more than offset Madagascar’s 
vulnerability to natural disasters that was never more evident than in 2007, leading to a strong secondary sector 
performance (up from 4.2 to 9 percent growth between 2006 and 2007) . The country was hit by six tropical 
storms/cyclones in the first four months of the year leading to exceptional rains in most parts of the country, while 
a
drought continued to affect the south of the country.  These storms contributed to heavy flooding in populated 
and cultivated areas throughout the country, including the capital region, the northwest, west and southeast 
regions. The tertiary sector grew by 4.8 percent, with public works, tourism transport, banking and the 
telecommunications sectors as the key growth sectors. The telecommunications sector has seen significant 
acceleration in 2005-7 through strong growth of basic services subscribers and network expansion. Increased 
investments by the telecoms operators are linked to investments in the basic national backbone, enhanced 
certainty for mobile operators with the renewal of their licenses, and increased competition. The sector is expected 
to continue to grow with the expansion of the national backbone and the installation of the East African 
submarine cable.  The tourism sector saw an increase of about 15 percent in tourism arrivals.  
 
The growth projection for 2008-10 range around 8.1 percent per year, driven mainly the current large investments 
in the extractive industry  together with tourism, construction, and - most important for the poor - improved 
prospects in agriculture.  The main driver of growth is expected to be the mining sector, through large FDI 
inflows. Tourism is expected to continue to grow, given the ongoing investments under the Integrated Growth 
Poles Project, private investment in hotels, and the increasing number of tourists. Improving the backward 
linkages in the tourism sector, such as sourcing products from the local economy by hotels, is a key aspect in the 
strategy for the sector.  Agriculture will continue benefiting from a range of investments by Government and 
donors including improving the irrigation systems and the surrounding watersheds in four most promising sites 
and from additional support for agri-business development in five regions in the country with support from the 
Millennium Challenge Corporation. It is also expected that the textile sector will continue to grow through new 
trade arrangements with the European Union and regional partners, leading to increasing diversification toward 
higher value-added products. But the future of the export processing zones, in particular, is linked to its ability to 
stay competitive, given the risks posed by the current trend of appreciation of the exchange rate.  
 
Following the positive implementation of the first PRSP, the Government of Madagascar has completed its 
second generation poverty reduction strategy called the Madagascar Action Plan (MAP). The MAP was launched 
in November 2006 and lays out an ambitious development plan for 2007-2012.  It outlines the commitments, 
Page  2
strategies and actions that are expected to ignite rapid growth and lead to the reduction of poverty in line with the 
Government’s national vision document (
Madagascar Naturally)
 and the MDGs.  The MAP builds on the first 
PRSP and was elaborated in a participatory manner that included broad consultations in all 22 regions of 
Madagascar involving local and national Government representatives, private sector, NGOs, church groups, 
development partners and civil society.  Key monitoring indicators, most with baselines for 2005 and targets for 
2012, have been selected to measure progress toward achieving the MAP’s identified challenges.  
 
Project Objectives 
 
In line with the new Country Assistance Strategy for Madagascar, a series of single tranche Poverty Reduction 
Support Credits (PRSCs), provided in the form of budget support, is envisaged to support implementation of key 
components of the new MAP.  The focus of this series, is centered on (i) governance and budget management 
reform and (ii) improved systems for service delivery in education, health, nutrition, water and sanitation. 
 
Project Description 
 
The proposed operation is the second PRSC of the second series (PRSC 4, 5 and 6) and will continue to contribute 
to Madagascar reaching its development goals as now reaffirmed in its MAP.  The reforms supported will 
strengthen the institutional infrastructure needed to improve the public sector’s capacity to carry out its role more 
effectively.  Improved delivery of public services is essential if the Government is to reach its goals for poverty 
reduction and improve the quality of life in Madagascar. In line with the objectives of the second PRSC series, 
additional attention will be given to second generation governance reforms, including governance challenges in 
selected entities or in sensitive sectors such as the forestry and the mining sectors.  Reforms in these areas will 
provide an important test for the efficiency and effectiveness of the existing governance framework.  Regarding 
basic service delivery, the objective of the series is to accompany the process of institutional strengthening and 
quality improvements under-way in the sectors.  More specifically, the PRSCs will complement the Bank’s 
existing investment portfolio by reinforcing institutional rationalization and strengthening in nutrition and by 
supporting the implementation of sector-wide approaches in health, education and water supply. 
 
Project Financing 
 
The proposed credit amount would be a US$ 40 million equivalent.  The credit would be disbursed in one tranche 
at effectiveness subject to the fulfillment of the prior actions conditions listed in the Policy Matrix.   
 
Project Implementation 
 
The Ministry of Economy, Budget and Finance will be responsible for coordinating and monitoring the 
implementation of the program. 
 
Sustainability 
 
The sustainability of the results of the PRSC 5 are likely since there is a broad degree of consensus and 
commitment on the importance and directions of these reforms for the implementation of the poverty reduction 
strategy.   The pace of progress, however, could be affected by external shocks (such as natural disasters) and 
capacity constraints. 
 
Environmental aspects 
 
In accordance with Bank guidelines, this operation is a development policy credit in support of a broad program 
of policy and institutional reforms, for which the requirements of OP/BP 8.60 apply.  The PRSC 4 program does 
not pose any significant environmental impacts.  
 
Poverty Category 
 
Page  3
The PRSC supports the implementation of Madagascar’s poverty reduction strategy as summarized in the 
Government’s Madagascar Action Plan. 
 
Contact Points: 
 
Contact: Stefano Paternostro 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5339+6020 
Fax: (261) 20 22  
Email: Spaternostro@worldbank.org 
Location: Antananarivo, Madagascar (IBRD) 
 
Contact: Mr. Henri Bernard Razakariasa, Secretary General, Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget; 
Antananarivo, Madagascar. 
 
Note
:
This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included in the final 
project. 
 
Processed by the Info Shop week ending _______.  
 
The Infoshop 
 
The World Bank 
 
1818 H Street 
 
Washington D.C.  20433 
 
Telephone: (202) 458-5454 
 Fax: 
(202) 
522-1500
 
