                                                                                                                                                                                                        44531
Authorized
                                                                                                                                    PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                                                                                                                                     APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                       Report No.: AB3874
          Disclosure                                                                                         Operation Name                   Madagascar ­ Fifth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC 5)
                                                                                                             Region                           AFRICA
                    Public                                                                                   Sector                           Governance; Education; Nutrition; Health; Rural Water Supply
                                                                                                             Project ID                       P105135
                                                                                                             Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                                                                                                             Implementing Agency              Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Budget (MEFB)
                                                                                                             Contact                          Mr. Henri Bernard Razakariasa, Secretary General, MEFB
                                                                                                             Date PID Prepared                May 20, 2008
                          Authorized                                                                         Date of Appraisal                May 8, 2008
                                                                                                             Authorization
                                                                                                             Date of Board Approval           June 26, 2008

                                    Disclosure

                                                                                                            Background
                                              Public

                                                                                                            1.      In 2007 Madagascar continued to make satisfactory progress in implementing its poverty
                                                                                                            reduction strategy with good progress in the implementation of the roads program, Education for All,
                                                                                                            nutrition, and health. Economic growth in 2007 estimated at 6.3 percent, was driven by strong secondary
                                                                                                            sector growth but agricultural growth was disappointing. The start up of construction of two large mining
                                                                                                            projects more than offset Madagascar's vulnerability to natural disasters that was never more evident than

                                                    Authorized                                              in 2007, leading to a strong secondary sector performance (up from 4.2 to 9 percent growth between 2006
                                                                                                            and 2007) . The country was hit by six tropical storms/cyclones in the first four months of the year
                                                                                                            leading to exceptional rains in most parts of the country, while a drought continued to affect the south of
                                                                                                            the country. These storms contributed to heavy flooding in populated and cultivated areas throughout the
                                                              Disclosure                                    country, including the capital region, the northwest, west and southeast regions. The tertiary sector grew
                                                                                                            by 4.8 percent, with public works, tourism transport, banking and the telecommunications sectors as the
                                                                                                            key growth sectors. The telecommunications sector has seen significant acceleration in 2005-7 through
                                                                        Public
                                                                                                            strong growth of basic services subscribers and network expansion. Increased investments by the
                                                                                                            telecoms operators are linked to investments in the basic national backbone, enhanced certainty for
                                                                                                            mobile operators with the renewal of their licenses, and increased competition. The sector is expected to
                                                                                                            continue to grow with the expansion of the national backbone and the installation of the East African
                                                                                                            submarine cable. The tourism sector saw an increase of about 15 percent in tourism arrivals.

                                                                                                            2.      The growth projection for 2008-10 range around 8.1 percent per year, driven mainly the current
                                                                                                            large investments in the extractive industry together with tourism, construction, and - most important for
                                                                              Authorized
                                                                                                            the poor - improved prospects in agriculture. The main driver of growth is expected to be the mining
                                                                                                            sector, through large FDI inflows. Tourism is expected to continue to grow, given the ongoing
                                                                                                            investments under the Integrated Growth Poles Project, private investment in hotels, and the increasing
                                                                                                            number of tourists. Improving the backward linkages in the tourism sector, such as sourcing products
                                                                                        Disclosure
                                                                                                            from the local economy by hotels, is a key aspect in the strategy for the sector. Agriculture will continue
                                                                                                            benefiting from a range of investments by Government and donors including improving the irrigation
                                                                                                  Public    systems and the surrounding watersheds in four most promising sites and from additional support for agri-
                                                                                                            business development in five regions in the country with support from the Millennium Challenge
                                                                                                            Corporation. It is also expected that the textile sector will continue to grow through new trade
                                                                                                            arrangements with the European Union and regional partners, leading to increasing diversification toward

higher value-added products. But the future of the export processing zones, in particular, is linked to its
ability to stay competitive, given the risks posed by the current trend of appreciation of the exchange rate.


3.       Following the positive implementation of the first PRSP, the Government of Madagascar has
completed its second generation poverty reduction strategy called the Madagascar Action Plan (MAP).
The MAP was launched in November 2006 and lays out an ambitious development plan for 2007-2012.
It outlines the commitments, strategies and actions that are expected to ignite rapid growth and lead to the
reduction of poverty in line with the Government's national vision document (Madagascar Naturally) and
the MDGs. The MAP builds on the first PRSP and was elaborated in a participatory manner that included
broad consultations in all 22 regions of Madagascar involving local and national Government
representatives, private sector, NGOs, church groups, development partners and civil society. Key
monitoring indicators, most with baselines for 2005 and targets for 2012, have been selected to measure
progress toward achieving the MAP's identified challenges.


Project Objectives

4.       In line with the new Country Assistance Strategy for Madagascar, a series of single tranche
Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs), provided in the form of budget support, is envisaged to
support implementation of key components of the new MAP. The focus of this series, is centered on (i)
governance and budget management reform and (ii) improved systems for service delivery in education,
health, nutrition, water and sanitation.

Project Description

5.       The proposed operation is the second PRSC of the second series (PRSC 4, 5 and 6) and will
continue to contribute to Madagascar reaching its development goals as now reaffirmed in its MAP. The
reforms supported will strengthen the institutional infrastructure needed to improve the public sector's
capacity to carry out its role more effectively. Improved delivery of public services is essential if the
Government is to reach its goals for poverty reduction and improve the quality of life in Madagascar. In
line with the objectives of the second PRSC series, additional attention will be given to second generation
governance reforms, including governance challenges in selected entities or in sensitive sectors such as
the forestry and the mining sectors. Reforms in these areas will provide an important test for the
efficiency and effectiveness of the existing governance framework. Regarding basic service delivery, the
objective of the series is to accompany the process of institutional strengthening and quality
improvements under-way in the sectors. More specifically, the PRSCs will complement the Bank's
existing investment portfolio by reinforcing institutional rationalization and strengthening in nutrition and
by supporting the implementation of sector-wide approaches in health, education and water supply.

Project Financing

6.       The proposed credit amount would be a US$ 50 million equivalent. The credit would be

disbursed in one tranche at effectiveness subject to the fulfillment of the prior actions conditions

listed in the Policy Matrix.

Project Implementation

7.      The Ministry of Economy, Budget and Finance will be responsible for coordinating and
monitoring the implementation of the program.

Sustainability

8.      The sustainability of the results of the PRSC 5 are likely since there is a broad degree of
consensus and commitment on the importance and directions of these reforms for the implementation of
the poverty reduction strategy.    The pace of progress, however, could be affected by external shocks
(such as natural disasters) and capacity constraints.

Environmental aspects

9.      In accordance with Bank guidelines, this operation is a development policy credit in support of a
broad program of policy and institutional reforms, for which the requirements of OP/BP 8.60 apply. The
PRSC 4 program does not pose any significant environmental impacts.

Poverty Category

10.     The PRSC supports the implementation of Madagascar's poverty reduction strategy as
summarized in the Government's Madagascar Action Plan.

11.     Contact Points:

Contact: Stefano Paternostro
Title: Lead Economist
AFTP1
Email: Spaternostro@worldbank.org

12.     For more information, contact:
        The Infoshop
        The World Bank
        1818 H Street
        Washington D.C. 20433
        Telephone: (202) 458-5454
        Fax: (202) 522-1500
        Email: pic@worldbank.org
        Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop




        Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
        included in the final project.

