Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
_ 4A1 3c7>                     L --         _
Report No. 6627-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MAY 12, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regior.
This document has a retdcted distribution and may be used by redpients only In the perfonnmue of
their offlcil duties. Its contents may not othenwise be disclosed without Wold  luk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(April, 1989)
US$1              ,         Turkish Lira (TL) 2,057
TL 1,000          -         US$0.49
TL 1,000,000      -         US$486
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                          =        2.20 pounds
1 metric ton u                                     1,000 kilograms, 0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)                                    2.47 acres
1 decare                                          0.1 ha
I square kilometer (kmn2)                -        0.386 square mile
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AEAR     -   Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project
ASAL     -   Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
DODP     -   Drainage and On-farm Development Project
EC       -   European Community
FAO      -   Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FSAL     -   Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
IAEE     -   Igdir-Aksu-Eregli-Ercis Irrigation Project
MAFRA    -   Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs
MIS      -   Management Information System
PAD      -   Project Analysis Department of TCZB
PPAR     -   Project Performance Audit Report
SACP     -   Second Agricultural Credit Project
SEE      -   State Economic Enterprise
SEKER    -   Sugar Factories Company
SIS      -   State Institute of Statistics
SPO      -   State Planning Organization
TCZB     -   Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Ziraat Bankasi (Agricultural Bank of Turkey)
TIGEM    -   Turkish Agricultural Enterprise
TKK      -   Agricultural Credit Cooperatives
TMO      -   Soil P.-oducts Office
TSEK     -   Milk Industry Organization
TZDK     -   Agricultural Supply Organization
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Programma
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Turkey        -        January 1 to December 31
TCZB                        -        January 1 to December 31
TKK                         -        January 1 to Del'ember 31



FOR OMCi4L USE ONLY
TURKEY
THIRD AGRlCULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and ?roject Summary ........................ ............... ....    i
I.     INTOUTRDCION*ooso**ooo.o*o.oo.eo*.**    1
II.    THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR ....................         .1
A.   Agricultural Development and Sectoral Adjustment.......    1
B.   Sectoral Characteristics    3..........3
C.   Bank Strategy for Support of Agriculture Sector
and Performance tnder Previous Projects..............    6
III.   AGRICULTURAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS ............................          8
A.   Financial Sector ..................................              8
B.   The Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB) .................         9
C.   Agrihultural Credit Cooperatives (TKK).. ...............   16
IV.    THE PROJECT.*.*.........................................              17
A.   Objectives and Rationale ....... .. ................ ......   17
B.   Project Description........... .......................   18
C.   Detailed Features.         .....    .......................     18
D.   Project Costs ..........................................   24
E.                                                                   iacn ..............  25
F.   Procurement ...................  26
G.   Disbursement .................... 27
V.     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ............................                   28
A.   Coordination .......................                            28
B.   Institutional Development ................. ... ........    29
C.   Credit Program ............................                     30
D.   Monitoring and Evaluation ............................          32
E.   Accounting and Auditing             ......... * ....   33
VI.    PRODUCTION AND MARRETING            ............................   34
VII.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS.......................              35
A.   Financial Benefits and Returns.**.********************.   35
B.   Economic Benefits and R        e     t    u    r    n    s      36
C.   Project Riss.......................    38
VIII.  AGREEMENTS TO BE SOUGHT AND RECOMMENDATION..................   39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutie& Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
ANNEXES
1.  TCZB Financial Data ......................................    41
2.   TKK Financial Data ....................................         58
3.   Draft TCZB Policy Statement       ..........      .........    64
4.   TCZB Institutional Development Program Action Matrix .....    70
5.   TCZB Training Program ....................................    78
6.   Project Credit Guidelines ................................      83
7.   Credit Program Area......................................    86
8.   Project Cost Phasing and Disbursement Schedule ...........    87
9.   Data on Marketing, Prices and Economic Analysis ..........    92
10.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File ...........................................   100
ll.*  Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TC               Z    B    )
12.*  Agricultural Credit Cooperatives (TKK)...................
13.*  Draft TOR for TCZB Institutional Development.............
14.*  Draft MAFRA Coordination Protocols......
15.*  Illustrative Farm Modelso................... . ..... . .. .
CHARTS
TCZB Head Office Organization (as of October 1988)
TKK Central Union Organization
MAP      IBRD 20320R Credit Program Area
* These annexes are contained in the Implementation Volume.



TURKEY
THRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Turkey
Implementing Agency:  Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB)
Loan Amount:           US$250 million equivalent
Terms:                 Seventeen years, including a five-year grace period at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:       The Government would onlend the proceeds of the Bank
loan to TCZB for a duration identical to that applicable
to the Loan, and at the interest rate applicable to the
relevant sub-loan, less a spread of 4% for TCZB.
Medium- and long-term sub-loans to farmers would
generally be for two to twelve years, including a grace
period of up to five years, with terms for individual
loans decided in accordance with cash flow projections.
Incremental short-term credit would be for one year or
less. All lending for agriculture would carry positive
interest rates in real terms by March 31, 1991. The
foreign exchange risk for the credit components would be
assumed by the Government, with the Borrower paying an
exchange risk premium.
Project Description:  The proposed project would contribute to the objectives
of (a) expanding agricultural credit to facilitate
increased production and invtestment and
(b) strengthening the agricultural credit institutions
(TCZB and tha Agricultural Credit Cooperatives - TKK).
The project would support the continuation of TCZB's
institutional development program, with particular
emphasis on measures such as revision of the
organizational structure, refinement of lending policies
and procedures, strengthening financial management, and
personnel development, all designed to promote a more
efficient use of TCZB's resources. Institutional
development of the TKK would focus on improved lending
policies and procedures. The project credit program
would consist of incremental short-term production
credit and medium/long-term investment credit in the
45 provinces where a core extension service is in place
and the capacity of the credit institutions is
considered adequate.



- ii -
Estimated Proiect Cost:
Local      Foreign        Total
- - - - - US$ million - - - -
Farm Development
Incremental Production                         87.5         30.4       117.9
Investment                                    578.4        526.5     1,104.9
Total                                       665.9        556.9     1,222.8
Institutional Development                         0.5          2.7          3.2
Total Base Cost                                 666.4        559.6      1,226.0
Contingencies                                     0.1          0.4          0.5
Total Project Cost                              666 5'i      560.0      1,226.5/1
Financing Plan:
Farmers   TCZB       TKX     Bank      Total
- - - -         US$ million - - - - - - -
Farm Development
Incremental Production              23.6     64.5       6.8     23.1      117.9
Investment                        322.9    537.4       18.4    226.3   1,104.9
Total                            346.5    601.8      25.1    249.4   1,222.8
Institutional Development              -        3.0       -        0.6        3.7
Total                            346.5    604.9      25.1    250.0   1,226.5
Estimated Disbursement:
Fiscal Year
1990      1991       1992      1993       1994
US$ million
Annual                               78        60          69         36         7
Cumulative                           78       138         207        243       250
Beneficiaries:   About 210,000 Turkish farmers supported by TCZB and the
Agricultural Credit Cooperatives (TKK)
Risks:            Deterioration in economic conditions leading to credit
ceilings to curb inflation. Delays or changes in TCZB's
institutional development program.
/a Includes taxes and duties of about $122.6 million equivalent.



TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Government of Turkey, the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB), and
the Agricultural Credit Cooperatives (TKK) have requested a World Bank loan to
help finance the proposed Third Agricultural Credit Project. The project
would build on two previous Bank-supported agricultural credit projects,
implemented by TCZB, and the credit components of other projects supported by
the Bank, for which TTCZB was the financial intermediary. By strengthening the
credit delivery system through the enhanced institutional development of TCZB
and the TKK and raising agricultural productivity through expanding improved
access to and supply of credit, it would help to achieve the Government's
development objectives and the Bank's assistance strategy for the agriculture
aector.
1.02     The project was identified and prepared by TCZB and the TKK with
assistance from the Bank and the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme. It was
appraised in November 1986 by a team composed of Messrs. Luhm,n and Argyle
(Bank) and Messrs. Godbole and Basu (FAO/CP). Messrs. Hunting, Tellex, Yaron
and Akhavan and Ms. Bonnell (3ank) assisted in the preparation of the report.
A follow-up mission comprising Mr. Duester conducted a post-appraisal and
revised the report.
1I. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
A. Agricultural Development and Sectoral Adjustment
2.01     While the relative importance of the agriculture sector in Turkey's
economy is declining, the sector in 1988 still represented about 15S of gross
domestic product (GDP), 20 of export earnings and 57% of civilian employment.
The growth rates of agricultural GDP and exports are projected to remain below
those of the economy as a whole, but the sector will continue to play a
significant role in generating employment, meeting domestic food requirements,
supplying industrial raw materials, and sustaining export levels.
2.02     Over the past two decades, Turkey's agricultural policies have
undergone a major shift in orientation, from inward- to outward-looking.
Through the 1970s, its policies stressed self-sufficiency in food production
through subsidized inputs and producer prices. Relatively rapid growth of
agricultural production was achieved, averaging 4.7% per year during 1972-75.
However, the macroeconomic situation began to deteriorate, and the level of
subsidization to agriculture became increasingly difficult to maintain.
Sectoral growth slowed to 1.51 per year during the late 19709, largely due to



-2-
ineffective investment policies, weak technical services, and marketing and
credit difficulties. During this period, agricultural exports accounted only
for a small portion (about 4S) of total production due to the overvalued
exchange rate and other disincentives to export.
2.03     Based on structural adjustment policies adopted by the Government in
1980 and reinforced by a series of structural adjustment loans and, in 1985,
by an agriculture sector adjustment loan (ASAL), economic policy has
emphasized export growth, import liberalization, more involvement of the
private sector, and reliance on market forces, all in the interest of
achieving better internal and external balances. Within the agriculture
sector, most commodity prices were brought in line with world market prices as
the result of a flexible exchange rate policy; price supports for many
commodities were withdrawn and floor prices rather than incentive prices
established for the remainder; agricultural exports were to a large extent
deregulated; and the import regime liberalized for commodities and inputs, for
which most subsidies were removed or reduced, although important exceptions
were made (para 2.05). Pesticide and fertilizer distribution, previously
monopolized by state economic enterprises, were opened up to the private
sector. Over the same period, the Government began to strengthen its
agricultural investment program by eliminating low-priority projects,
expediting completion of existing projects, and constraining expenditure on
new ones. Further, in 1984, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural
Affairs (MAFRA) was reorganized in order to decentralize responsibility to the
provincial level and to eliminate overlapping services and other
inefficiencies. The reorganization process is being supplemented by actions
directed toward increasing further the efficiency of the various services.
2.34     Within the context of adjustment, sectoral performancR has been
mixed. While growth of GDP averaged 5.0% per year during 1981-87, the
sectoral growth rate for agriculture was 3.8%. It experienced wide swings,
ranging from -0.1 (in 1983) to 6.4S (in 1982). In 1986, agriculture GNP
growth was 7.81, stimulated by good weather, increased fertilizer supplies,
and a general rise in aggregate demand. Starting from the high base of 1986,
growth in 1987 reached only 2.2%, but is estimated to have reached 6.2% in
1988. Agricultural exports have also fluctuated from year to year, but
navertheless increased marginally from US$1.7 billion in 1980 to US$1.9
billion in 1986 and 1987. They reached a new high in 1988 of US$2.3 billion
Agro-industrial exports (including forestry and hides and leather products)
rose from US$o.1 billion in 1980 to US$1.1 billion in 1986 and US$1.7 billion
in 1987.
2.05     Future sectoral development will depend on the Government's ability
to continue its adjustment-based initiatives and to deepen the process.
Export constraints are posing potential problems, however. Depressed
agricultural prices in export markets due to European Community (EC)
competition and economic slowdown among trading partners in the Middle East
and in local markets (due to EC dumping of livestock and livestock products
and increased domestic production of some crops) have caused income losses for
some Turkish farmers. In response, some relief measures, including input and
interest subsidies, have been reintroduced by Government, although such
subsidies detract from adjustment policies agreed with the Bank under the



-3-
ASAL. Among inputs, animal feed, pesticides and fertilizer have been granted
new subsidy rates, with the most important subsidy affecting fertilizers.
While the retail fertilizer price subsidy (net of taxes and duties) had been
lowered from 45S in mid-1985 to 272 in mid-1986, it was raised to about 342 in
1987 and reduced again to 28b in 1988 (para 2.12). Similarly, interest rate
subsidies for agriculture were re-introduced in late 1986 and early 1987
(paras 3.u3-3.09). The Government has indicated that such measures are
tear orary, and that it's commitment to liberalizing agriculture sector policies
is firm. As steps towards restoring positive interest rates, Government
imicreased agricultural lending rates by 7-112 in February and again in
No.vember 1988 (para 3.08). The sector also requirer further efforts for
strengthening institutional infrastructure, improving extension and research,
conso3idating MAFRM's organization, upgrading the distribution of inputs,
improving the agricultural credit system, and maintaining discipline regarding
public investment. With continued reform, agricultural GDP could be expected
to achieve an annual growth of 32 in real terms, although there may be a
setback in 1989 because of the draught. Export constraints are placing a
premium on adjusting agricultural production to shifting marketing
opportunities and on improving productivity and marketing efforts.
B. Sectoral Characteristics
2.06     Organization of Production.  Agricultural production at the farm
level is in the hands of a large number of smallholders, but there are some
large holdings as wedl, although none directly under the auspices of the
Government. The agricultural service industry, including production or
importation of seeds and feed, input distribution and farm services, domestic
marketing and exports have largely been privatized with a minor role for the
public sector in supply of some inputs and marketing of some crops. The
public sector is the major actor in the development of irrigation
infrastructure, research and extension and credit.
2.07     Land Use.  Of total agricultural land of 47.7 million ha,
23.9 million ha (501) is in crops and 20.2 million ha (42X) is in
forests.X'  Of the crop area, 18.2 million ha (761) is under field crops and
5.8 million ha (242) is in fallow. An additional 3.6 million ha (8X) is under
orchards, vineyards, and vegetables. The irrigated area amounted to about
3.4 million ha, or about 141 of total crop area. About 86% of farms are
engaged in mixed crop and animal production, while 11% are dedicated to crops
and 31 are engaged solely in animal production. The distribution of farms is
characterized by a large number of small holdings and a few large holdings.
The average farm size is 6.4 ha, 612 of all holdings are under 5 ha, 821 under
10 ha and 942 under 20 ha.
2.08     Irrigation.  Irrigation and drainage account for about two-thirds of
public sector agricultural investment. About 402 of crop output and 252 of
agricultural exports are produced under irrigation. However, investment has
not always been directed to priority schemes. Cost recovery has been quite
low (less than 302 of operation and maintenance cost, for example, between
I/   SIS Statistical Yearbook of Turkey 1987.



-4-
1978 and 1983), although significant progress has been achieved since 1983 in
raising assessments and collections. Inadequate drainage has caused the
deterioration of soil conditions in some areas, and on-farm development has
lagged behind the expansion of irrigation infrastructure. The ASAL (2585-TU)
and the Drainage and On-farm Development Project (DODP, 2663-TU) are
supporting rationalization of irrigation investment, improvement of cost
recovery, and completion of priority drainage and on-farm development works to
increase productivity.
2.09     Livestock.  The livestock subsector contributes about 25% of
agricultural GDP and 15S of agr'zultural exports. Low-income areas,
predominantly in the eastern provinces, support the major part of the
country's livestock herd under low input/low output conditions. Fattening and
processing operations are concentrated around major population centers,
primarily in the central and western provinces. Overgrazing of natural
grasslands in Turkey restricts growth of the national herd. Increased
competition in recent years from livestock-producing areas in the southern
hemisphere and Europe requires that measures be taken to improve
productivity. This will require improved feeding and animal management, a
substantial increase in health care, and upgrading of the genetic base.
Recently, in order to counteract the effect of EC dumping practices, the
Government increased duties on meat and milk product imports and introduced
subsidies on animal feed and cash grants for livestock investment. In case
the livestock investment is financed with a loan from TCZB the cash subsidy is
replaced by an interest rate subsidy.
2.10     Extension and Applied Research.  Since the growth of agriculture will
require the intensification of both crop and animal production, the
development of improved technology suited to diverse conditions in different
areas of the country and the dissemination of this technology to farmers are
essential. Much research has been done in Turkey, but the system suffers from
severe fragmentation and has not always focussed on problems of highest
priority to farmers. The extension service has achieved success in ptomoting
the use of improved inputs but devoted less attention to appropriate farm
anagement practices, had relativelv weak links with the research system,
suffered from divided responsibility for crop and livestock extension, and had
to allocate considerable time to administrative and statistical functions.
Government has undertaken a reorganization of MAFRA which has established the
foundation for an efficient, integrated crop and livestock extension service.
Under the Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project (AYAR, 2405-TU)
covering 16 of Turkey's 67 provinces, a modified training and visit extension
system is being introduced in combination with media-oriented extension
programs, strengthening the links between extension and research, and
coordinating the efforts of research institutions with increased emphasis on
applied research. Start-up of the project was initially disrupted by the
reorganization of MAFRA, and further delayed by slow progress in procurement.
However, progress has accelerated considerably over the past year and a half.
A proposed project for expansion of the system to 18 additional provinces is
expected to be appraised shortly.



-5-
2.11     Marketing.  Both public and private sectors are involved in the
marketing of agricultural production, with the private sector assuming a
growing role under present market-oriented policies. Tthe Soil Products Office
(TMO), a state economic enterprise, purchases in a typical year about 15% of
the marketed cereal output and undertakes both import and export operations.
It has been raising the efficiency of its operations and expanding and
modifying its storage facilities with support from the Bank under the Grain
Storage Project (Loan 1742-TU). The remainder of the marketed cereal output
is purchased by a large number of private traders, some of whom also export.
Other SEEs and sales cooperatives are involved in the marketing of pulses,
animal products, horticultural crops, and industrial crops in competition with
private sector firms. Fresh fruit and vegetables are marketed by a large
number of private traders.
2.12     Input Supply. The private sector is also expanding its role in the
supply of agricultural inputs. Whereas fertilizer distribution was
monopolized by two SEEs - the Agricultural Supply Organization (TZDK) and the
Sugar Factories Company (SEKER) - the private sector was permitted to enter
the trade in June 1986. LIberalization of the seed industry began in 1984
with actions on pricing, imports, and testing requirements, and there are now
at least 20 private seed companies operating alongside the reorganized (1983)
Turkish Agricultural Enterprise (TIGEM), which will continue to produce seed
for self-pollinated cereals such as wheat and barley. Actions are being
taken, with support from ASAL, to. improve the efficiency of TIGEM. Farm
machinery, implements and agrochemicals are widely available in the country,
primarily through the private sector, and their demand is increasing rapidly
with a consequent increase in credit demand. The retail price subsidy on
fertilizer has been progressively reduced since 1980, and averaged about 341
of the retail price in 1987, compared to about 70% in 1979, 48. in 1984, and
271 in the second half of 1986. It is Government policy to phase out the
remaining fertilizer subsidy and thus, average net price subsidy levels were
reduced in February 1988 to 24% but were raised again to 282 in August 1988.
Due to inelastic demand for fertilizer in terms of volume, the demand for
fertilizer credit in monetary terms has risen as the fertilizer price has
increased because of reductions in price subsidies. This trend has been
reinforced in 1987 because of the interest rate subsidy on fertilizer loans
introduced in October 1986. In 1988, TCZB has experienced difficulties in
meeting the credit demand because of a scarcity of funds (para 3.14). In
order to induce farmers to use improved seed, the Government subsidizes 50% of
the price of hybrid soybean, maize and sunflower seeds. Seeds for other crops
are not subsidized. A subsidy of 201 of the sales price of pesticides that
was abolished in 1984 was reintroduced in 1986.
2.13     Credit.  The Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB. and the Agricultural
Credit Cooperatives (TKK) lend to about half of the country's 3.7 million farm
families, although the average loan is relatively small (TL 400,000 or US$466
in 1987). Farm credit disbursements increased from about 8.51 of agricultural
GDP in 1979 to 16.9% iu 1987, while total agricultural credit disbursements
(including credit to sales cooperatives, SEEs and agro-industries) declined
irom 27% of agricultural GDP in 1979 to 21% in 1987 with large fluctuations in
between (Annex 1, Table 1). The latter decrease reflects Government's policy
of shifting from incentive to floor pricing, and causing sales cooperatives
and SEEs to pay higher rates to TCZB or obtain credit from commercial sources,



-6-
2.14     Government's policy for the development of the agricultural credit
subsector is to maintain preferential interest rates but to keep all of them
at positive real levels; expand the supply of credit, particularly for small-
and medium-scale farmers; and strengthen the credit institutions. In.erest
rates for agriculture had reached positive levels by mid-1986 but with the
introduction of new interest rate subsidies at the end of 1986 and the rise in
inflation in 1987 and 1988 the rates are no longer positive. The weighted
average interest rate for all agricultural lending is expected to be positive
in 1990 (para 3.08). Government contributes funds for agricultural credit by
channelling deposits of Government and parastatal agencies to TCZB and
periodically providing TCZB with additional equity resources.
C. Bank Strategy for Support of Agriculture Sector
and Performance under Previous Projects
2.15     The 'Bank's strategy for assisting development of the agriculture
sector is to support policy reforms, stimulate primary production, and
strengthen the input supply, processing and marketing, and credit delivery
systems. It builds on policy and institutional changes introduced between
1980 and 1985 with support from five Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs) and
the ASAL and assists the transition from a highly subsidized and protected
system of agricultural production to one that can survive in an open economy
and is responsive to policy signals and market incentives. Since 1985, the
ASAL has supported sectoral adjustment, with emphasis on sectoral planning and
analysis in MAFRA,' rationalization of public expenditure (especially
irrigation), liber&lization of the trade regime, seed and fertilizer pricing
and distribution, and managerial strengthening of fertilizer distribution and
SEEs involved in seed production and distribution. The Drainage and On-farm
Development Project (2663-TU), building on the Igdir-Aksu-Eregli-Ercis (IAEB)
Irrigation Project (2433-TU), focuses on a core program for completion of
essential drainage and on-farm development works, strengthening of the
investment planning/implementation processes, expansion of cost recovery, and
strengthening of the technical and managerial capabilities of Government staff
involved in these tasks. The Agricultural Extension and Applied Research
Project (AEAR, 2405-TU) and a proposed follow-up project are aimed at the
development and dissemination of improved technology in support of increased
productivity. Two agricultural credit projects (paras 2.17-2.18) were
designed to support the strengthening of credit institutions and the expansion
of agricultural credit. Other projects in rural development, livestock, fruit
and grain marketing, and forestry have also contributed to the implementation
of the strategy. A proposed agro-industries project, intended to support the
processing of agricultural produce, would focus on restructuring existing
enterprises and developing and/or strengthening technical, financial and
marketing institutions in the private sector. Proposed extension and research
projects would focus on the institutional development of MAPRA and further
strengthening of the technology adaptation and delivery system.
2.16     Bank support for the agriculture sector has encompassed 22 operations
to date, of which 13 have been completed and nine are under implementation.
For irrigation projects, the most recently completed Project Performance Audit
Reports (PPARs) and Impact Evaluation Report considered them to be generally



-7-
successful, with high economic benefits, but indicated the need for
improvements in cost recovery, establishment of project implementation units,
and provision of domestic financing. As noted in PPARs, livestock projects
have been generally successful in the temperate western areas of the country
but less successful in the more difficult eastern areas. The more recent
projects were also adversely affected by changing price relationships
resuilting from the structural adjustment process, under which more realistic
exchange rates raised incentives for meat production relative to milk
production. The fruit and vegetable projects had some success in expanding
production of these crops, but the efforts to improve the marketing system
have not had much impact to date. The performance of other projects in the
portfolio has varied, although implementation has improved substantially in
recent years. Performance under the on-going ASAL (2585-TU) has been mixed,
with more rapid progress than expected on fertilizer pricing and distribution
but delays in strengthening sectoral planning/monitoring, implementing the
irrigation core program, and formulating management improvement programs for
two SEEs. Regarding recent setbacks on fertilizer and interest subsidies, the
Government har assured the Ban1 that these represent only temporary deviations
from long-te:-m policy intents. Measures have been taken in January/February
1988 to reduce subsidy levels. DODP became effective in June 1987, as
regulations for implementation of the new cost recovery law were issued and
project consultants hired. The prospects for success of AEAR under the new
organizational structure of MAFRA are thought to be good, although delays have
occurred because of disruption caused by the reorganization and the limited
availability of local funds.
2.17     The two previous credit projects have promoted the allocition of
credit to viable production and investment activities and have placed
increasing emphasis on the institutional development of TCZB.  The
Agricultural Credit and Agro-industries Project (Loan 1248-TU of May 1976)
supported a supervised farm credit scheme in selected areas, credit for
agro-industry, and a study of selected aspects of TCZB's operations and
management. The supervised credit was implemented approximately in accordance
with expectations, while the agro-industry credit component suffered
substantial delays as a result of the initial divided responsibility for
implementation (between MAFRA and TCZB) and subsequent sub-borrower
unwillingness to bear the foreign exchange risk (eventually assumed by the
Government). The institutional study was delayed but finally implemented, and
it formed part of the basis for the institutional development program being
supported under the Second Agricultural Credit Project (SACP) that became
effective in 1984.
2.18     SACP provided US$149.5 million to support short-term and medium- and
long-term credit for on-farm development in ten of the provinces where the
extension service is being strengthened under AEAR, short-term credit for the
Government's second crop and fallow reduction schemes, and credit in support
of IAEE (short- and medium- and long-term) and the Corum-Cankiri Rural
Development Project (Loan 1130-TU) (incremental short-term). It also
supported TCZB's action plan for institutional development and provided
US$950,000 for this purpose. The pattern of credit disbursements has been
different from expectations, with greater emphasis on the on-farm development



-8-
componentL' and delays in the issuance of project credit guidelines by TCZB
and thus in implementation of the credit program in 1985. However, in 1986
and 1987, TCZB's credit disbursements accelerated substantially and project
disbursements reached 98% of allocations by end of June 1988 and 1002 shortly
after the Closing Date of June 30, 1988. Funds have been reallocated among
various categories to take account of actual credit demand, and the closing
date was extended by six months to June 30, 1988 to achieve a pai passu
disbursement of the remaining funds in all categories. Delays also occurred
in the implementation of the institutional development program, primarily as a
result of legislative and managerial changes. However, major institutional
objectives have been achieved (para 4.06). The pr'posed project would build
on the experience of the first two projects by supporting a credit program
which would be an integral part of the operations of TCZ! (and the TKK) and
would address aspects of institutional development that are important for
enhancing the effectiveness and efficiency of TCZB (and the TKK), e.g.,
decentralizing lending an* strengthening financial management.
III. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
A. Financial Sector
3.01     The Central Bank, 45 deposit banks, and five development banks
constitute the country's well developed banking systeml' and account for
nearly 90b of total financial resources. Credit cooperatives, social security
institutions, and insurance companies comprise the remainder of financial
institutions. Since 1980 the sector has shown substantial growth. Total bank
assets grew from TL 1,730 billion in 1980 to TL 15,990 billion in 1985 or in
1985 constant terms, by 94X from TL 8,236 billion to TL 15,990 billion. The
credit institutions concerned with financing agriculture-related activities
include the Central Bank, TCZB, other deposit banks, and TKK. TCZB provides,
either directly or through TKK, virtually all of the formal credit to farmers
from financial intermediaries. Close to one-half of all farmers have no
access to institutional credit and depend on informal credit, but data on
informal credit are unavailable.
3.02     The Government is undertaking a reform of the financial sector aimed
at establishing an efficient and flexible system of resource mobilization and
allocation which would grow in real terms to meet the needs of the
increasingly complex economy. A major element in reform is to improve
1/   Credit demand has been affected by a variety of factors, including a
depressed investment climate because of inflation and price uncertainty,
which has affected medium- and long-term credit; delays in the
implementation of AEAR and IAEE; and various matters concerning the
second crop and fallow reduction schemes such as possible overestimates
of credit requirements, more limited applicability of the schemes than
anticipated, inappropriate timing of credit disbursements and repayment
dates, and excessive credit security requirements.
2/   TZCB is counted here among the deposit banks although it has also the
role of a development bank.



-9-
the efficiency of the banking system. The Bank supported the Government's
adjustment program during the period 1986-88 through the Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (FSAL, Loan 2714-TU). A second FSAL (Loan 2964-TU) has become
effective in June 1988. It has the following major objectives: (i) reforming
the Government's fiscal policy; (ii) strengthening the banking system,
including the introduction of regulations on loan classification, suspension
of interest accrual, and provisioning, the establishment of a mechanism to
restructure insolvent banks, and the development of action programs to
restructure state-owned banks; (iii) improving the interest rate structure,
including reducing the high non-preferential lending rates, reducing currency
substitution, and bringing preferential lending raten to positive levels in
real terms; and (iv) developing the fixed income securities and equities
market. The proposed project would complement the operations under the FSALs
by strengthening the agricultural credit institutions and the agricultural
credit delivery system.
B. The Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB)
Obiectives and Functions
3.03     TCZB, a Government-owned institution, is the oldest and largest bank
in Turkey with a network of 1,151 branches and aLout 26% of the total
resources of the deposit banks operating in the country. Its policy is to
allocate at least 80b of its lending to agriculture, although a smaller
proportion has been devoted to the sector in recent years. Included in
agricultural lending are loans to saleg cooperatives for the procurement of
agricultural commodities (para 3.14). TCZB is also empowered to undertake
commercial lending and other functions usually associated with a commercial
banking institution. However, a large part of TCZB's commercial lending is
related to agriculture such as lending to TMO for grain procurement (para
3.14). In addition, TCZB handles Governmental transactions for the Treasury
and the Central Bank. TCZB prepares and implements an annual operations and
investment program, which is approved by the Supreme Credit Board.1'
3.04     TCZB serves as an instrument of Government policy, allocating credit
in accordance with Government directives and charging preferential interest
rates on agricultutal credit. Significant progress has been made over recent
years in bringing average interest rates to positive real levels. Lending at
preferential rates has been made possible by an interest "rebate" on
agricultural credit administered by the Central Bank, borrowings from the
Central Bank (a declining share), Government and parastatal deposits kept as
demand deposits rather than time deposits, and infusions of capital by the
Government. It also has been supported in part by commercial lending at
non-preferential rates and the placement of funds in bank deposits and
high-yielding Government bonds. This program is expected to continue over the
medium term. TCZB will rely on compensation for interest subsidies and
1/ The Board is chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister, and its members
include the Ministers of Agriculture and Commerce, the Undersecretaries
of the Treasury and the State Planning Organization, and the Goveruor of
the Central Bank.



-10-
increased infusion of equity to improve its capitalization. Thus, TCZB's
financial status and performance results from a balance of policy vrariables
controlled by the Government. The viability of the institution rests
ultimately on the Government's willingness and ability to provide funds for
its continued operation. The proposed project is expected to contribute to
increasing TCZB's financial independence over time by bringing all
agricultural interest rates to positive levels in real terms by March 31, 1991
and setting them at levels high enough to cover administrative aud risk cost
and permit a reasonable profit margin by the end of 1991 (para 5.08).
Organization and Management
3.05     Management.  TCZB is administered by a Government-appointed Board of
Directors and a Credit Committee. The Board is chaired by the General
Manager, who is ir charge of TCZB's day-to-day operationst and is assisted by
six Assistant General Managers. At the beginning of 1988 a new Ceneral
Manager took over and appointed staff from outside TCZB to four of the
Assistant General Manager positions. TCZB's new management team has
introduced a whole range of institutional development measures which were
supported under SACP.
3.06     Organizational Structure.  lJntil 1988, the organizational structure
of TCZB was centralized, with inadequate delegation of decision-making
authority. Its head office organization had expanded to nearly 40
departments. There was considerable overlap and duplication in the functions
entrusted to various departments. In implementing the first phase of its
restructuring program, TCZB underwent a complete reorganization in 1988 in
order to streamline its operations (Chart 43133). Its entire senior
management was changed, including the appointment of three new managers with
foreign banking experience. The dispersion of inter-related units under
different Assistant Geueral Managers was corrected and the number of units
reduced. A decision has also been taken to decentralize loan approval
procedures by authorizing the main provincial branches to approve loan
applications from amaller branches within that province.
LendinR Policies and Procedures
3.07     Agricultural Credit Guidelines and Loan Approval Limits.
Agricultural lending procedures of TCZB are governed by Agricultural Credit
Guidelines issued in 1979. These guidelines are generally satisfactory. They
were revised in 1987 to incorporate more modern procedures appropriate for
providing adequate credit for all viable farm operations and investments in a
timely manner. The revised guidelines are expected to be approved by TZCB's
Board in 1989. In September 1985, the Government raised loan approval limits
to TL 200 million for the Credit Committee, and to TL 25 million for
headquarter units. The latter can delegate their authority to branches, and
the loan approval limit for some large provincial branches was raised to TL 25
million at the beginning of 1987. Steps have been taken to adjust the legal
limits annually to compensate for the effects of inflation (para 4.08).
3.08     Lending Rates and Inflation.  TCZB's agricultural lending rates are
determined by the Government. Any changes in rates apply both to new loans
and outstanding loan balances. At the beginning of 1985, the base rate of



-ll-
interest for farm credit was set at 30% for small loans (production loans up
to TL 5 million, or US$4,000 equivalent and loans for investments of up to TL
20 million, or US$16,000 equivalent). A higher rate of 342 for larger
production and investment loans and 35% for tractor loans was fixed in
September 1985.1' Effective rates to farmers are 1-1.5 percentage points
higher because of t -as and fees. Thus, TCZB's effective rates of 30-36.5$
for farm credit were above the inflation rate of about 282 for May 1986 over
May 1985, as measured by the wholesale price inAex. In 1987 inflation
accelerated considerably and reached 48.91 in TDecember 1987 and 69.62 in
December 1988. Since lending rates were not adjusted to take account of
inflation, they ceased to be positive at this time. Inflation peaked in
January 1989 and started to come down thereafter (61.82 in March 1989). To
make deposit rates more attractive and to bring subsidized agricultural
lending rates closer to positive levels in real terms, Government increased
interest rates twice, in February and November of 1988. The 221 rate for
livestock and fertilizer loans, introduced in December 1986, stands now at
341, the rate for other small loans at 43%, the rate for other larger loans at
501, the rates for agro-industry at 501 and 601, respectively, depending on
the amount of the investment, and the rate for sales cooperatives at 702.
Rates for commercial type lending are 751 for export credits and 85% for other
short-term lending. The weighted average interest rate for TCZB loans to
farmers in 1988 is estimated to be 41.2% including about 1.51 for fees and
taxes. To determine whether these rates are positive in real terms, they are
compared with an inflation index that takes account of past and expected
inflation, weighted equally (para 5.08). Based on the March 1989 inflation
figures and the Government's year-end inflation target of 501, the index wouil
currently be 55.91 so that the weighted average interest rate for loans to
farmers would be negative by about 14.71. It is expected that the weighted
average interest rate for all agricultural lending would become positive by
end-March 1990.
3.09     To compensate TCZB for the shortfall in interest income for
fertilizer and livestock loans, TCZB receives a 152 Government interest
subsidy on fertili?r. loans and 11% on livestock loans. On other types of
farmer credit funded with own funds, TCZB receives a 31 subsidy. Deposit
rates vary greatly in accordance with maturities. In October 1988, they were
38% for demand deposits, and ranged from 65% for one-month time deposits to
851 for one-year time deposits. The preferential agricultural lending rates
were offset in 1988 by higher lending rates to sales cooperatives,
agro-industries and to commerce.
Loan Processing
3.10     TCZB borrowers are required to make a minimum contribution to the
proposed operation or investment, which normally is 10S for small- and
medium-scale farmers and 30-402 for larger farmers. Production loan amounts
are based on credit norms for each crop which have proved to be generally
insufficient to cover credit needs. Investment loans other than for equipment
are appraised on the basis of the borrower's anticipated income and
1/ Credit cooperatives receive a discount of 0.5 percentage point on each
type of credit, but the rates to cooperative members are two percentage
points above the direct TCZB rates.



-12-
expenditure after development and repayment capacity. Beginning in 1987, TCZB
introduced crop budgets and investment models to improve the appraisal of
production and investment loans. Short-term loans are usually granted for
periods of 6-12 months, medium-term loans extend from 2-5 years, and long-term
loans from 6-20 years. Maturity periods, including grace periods for
investment credits, have been set rather arbitrarily but will be more closely
related to repayment capacity under the improved appraisal procedures. The
charter of TCZB and credit guidelines issued by TCZB Headquarters permit the
acceptance of personal guarantees, chattel mortgages, and mortgage of land
and/or buildings as collateral. However, branches have generally insisted on
real estate as security, which emphasis has prevented many farmers from
obtaining TCZB credit.
Supervision and Monitoring and Evaluation
3.11     The shortage of technical staff in TCZB has affected the quality of
loan supervision which at present is somewhat cursory. TCZB therefore intends
to maintain the necessary complement of qualified staff and introduce a
program of regular supervision of loans (short-term loans on a sample basis
and all investment credits) (para 5.09). Improved supervision will also
facilitate proper monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of loans, a task currently
not attempted. TCZB is establishing an M&E unit within the Project Analysis
Department at its headquarters which will be supported by 10 regional units.
The central and regional units will guide the M&E activities of technical
staff at branches.
Management Information System, Financial Planning and Accounting.
3.12     TCZB is in the process of upgrading its management information iystem
(MIS) to include information on distribution of agricultural loans by purpose,
loan benaficiaries by size of holding, repayment performance, and agewise
breakdown of overdues. The study of systems and procedures, undertaken by
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) consultants, has provided an important
input. The computerization program, being implemented through 1992, will
permit the rapid processing of data. TCZB has prepared a five-year financial
plan for the period 1988-92 which has been approved by the Supreme Credit
Board. The plan will be reviewed annually and the forecasts extended to cover
one more year. TCZB also has developed an improved system to prepare annual
budgets. However, this system does not allocate funds according to major
programs and activities, a capability which will be introduced tog3ther with
cost accounting. During 1986, TCZB introduced the uniform accounting
standards for all Turkish banks required under the Banking Law of May 1985.
The system will be further developed to meet TCZB's specific requirements and
will include a cost accounting capability.
Personnel
3.13     TCZB employs about 40,000 staff.  Some organizational units and
cadres are overstaffed, while others, in particular branches and cadres such
as technical services, are understaffed. TCZB's staff compensation levels
have been improved with the introduction of the contract system, but its staff
evaluation system needs to focus more sharply on job performance. The
emphasis of TCZB's current staff training program is on training new recruits



-13-
and lower level personnel, and the courses are general in nature. TCZB's
institutional development program contains actions to address each of these
areas (paras 4.14-4.16).
Operations
3.14     Lending.  In 1985 terms, farm credit disbursements declined from
TL 415 billion in 1977 to TL 334 billion in 1981 before climbing to TL 896
billion in 1987, an average annual increase over the 1977-87 period of 81
(Annex 1, Table 1). In contrast, disbursements of loans to sales cooperatives
and Government input supply agencies (mainly TZDK for fertilizer) decreased in
1985 terms from TL 758 billion in 1977 to TL 228 billion in 1987. This
reflects a Government decision to treat TZDK and sales cooperatives on a more
commercial basis. As a result, disbursements of total agricultural credit
(including agro-industry) declined in 1985 terms from TL 1,178 billion in 1977
to a low of TL 637 billion in 1982, although they subsequently grew to
TL 1,132 billion in 1987 as result of normal expansion. In terms of total
assets, the total agricultural portfolio decreased from 58Z in 1980 to 341 in
1988. The relative decrease of agricultural lending was caused by increases
in the more profitable commercial and bond portfolio, and in cash and bank
balances (para 3.19). TCZB's lending for agriculture, particularly for farm
credit, has been constrained by the low return. While increases in interest
rates to positive real levels reduce demand for farm credit, a significant
increase in net institutional farm credit in real terms resurte4 in 1986 and
1987 from the growth in production and investment, the reduction of input
subsidies, the increase of credit amounts to reasonable proportions of actual
production and investment costs, and the greater access of farmers to TCZB
credit. There was no growth in agricultural credit in real terms in 1988 due
to a squeeze on resources available for lending. The commercial loan
portfolio increased in 1985 terms from TL 208 billion in 1980 to TL 1,132
billion in 1987, and increased its share of total assets from 12a to 231
(including the portfolios of three insolvent banks taken over in 1983).
However, it contracted considerably to TL 662 billion (15% of total assets) in
1988 due to TCZB's efforts to improve the quality of its portfolio in line
with its restructuring policy (para 3.17).
3.15     Equity Investments.  TCZB's equity portfolio, consisting mostly of
shares in agro-industrial enterprises, is small and has all along constituted
less than 1l of total assets. In terms of nominal amount, however, it has
increased from TL 1.6 billion in 1980 to TL 43.5 billion in 1988. Many of the
present equity investments can be deemed as non-performing, as the enterprises
have incurred losses or paid no dividend consecutively for the past three
years or more. Therefore, TCZB intends to undertake a review of its equity
investment portfolio focussing initially on the agro-industry investments
(para 4.11) to determine its true market value and criteria for sale of
shares. In line with its intention to divest itself of all participations
except those in the insurance industry, TCZB put up the first of its
participations for sale in August 1988.
3.16     Foreign Exchange Operations.  TCZB's foreign exchange operations
consist of purchase and sale of foreign currencies, financing of exports and
imports through foreign currency credits, discount or acceptance of foreign
bills, and issue of import guarantees. Since 1981, TCZB also has been



-14-
accepting deposits in foreign currencies. Such deposits have grown rapidly
since 1983 to TL 1,820 million in 1988. TCZB's foreign currency credits have
increased comparatively at a much slower pace. TCZB's policy is to match
foreign exchange assets and lJabilities, and therefore it has placed most of
the foreign currency funds which exceed its foreign exchange loans in deposits
at correspondent banks and the Central Bank.
Financial Status and Performance
3.17     Restructuring.  In 1988, TCZB started a restructuring program in
accordance with guidelines issued by the Central Bank within the framework of
the Bank-supported financial sector adjustment operations (para 3.02). This
program consists of the preparation of a restructuring plan based on the
identification of problems and their causes. TCZB's restructuring plan,
prepared in 1988 and revised in April 1989, includes a strategic plan, a
capitalization plan and an operational plan. It is based on the findings of
the audit results for 1987 (audit report by Sworn Bank EPxaminers and partial
audit by external auditors) and the results of an internal portfolio review
(para 3.19) carried out to determine the magnitude of provisions for bad debts
needed in accordance with the Provisioning Decree issued in May 1988. TCZB's
management considered it more important to examine the most risky assets
(commercial portfolio and foreign exchange transactions) immediately following
the issuance of the guidelines by the Central Bank and start the restructuring
program on this basis rather than waiting for the results of complete
portfolio audit before taking any measures. TCZB plans to have the complete
audit in 1989 of the 1988 accounts. ; ;
3.18     Assets and Resources.  TCZB's total assets in 1985 terms generally
increased to a level of TL 2.6 trillion in 1977, then declined to TL 1.8
trillion in 1980 before climbing to TL 4,530 billion in 1988. As its recourse
to Central Bank borrowings has declined, its resources have come increasingly
from deposits. However, the composition of deposits has changed since 1985
when local deposits started to dedline in favor of foreign currency deposits.
Since TCZB has earned only a small profit in nominal terms, the magnitude of
its net worth has depended primarily on Government equity contributions and
has fluctuated at a low level relative to total assets. The confidence of its
depositors has been maintained through its backing by Government. TCZB's
total resouarces reached TL 13 trillion (US$6.5 billion) at the end of 1988, in
real terms about 1551 more than in 1980 and about 72% above the level of
1977. Until 1985, deposits have provided a growing share of resources,
increasing from 411 in 1980 to 711 in 1985. Conversely, the share provided by
Central Bank borrowings has declined from 40S to 52 over the same period.
However, in 1987 TCZB financed TMO's grain procurement program largely with
Central Bank borrowings. As a result, their share in TCZB's resources jumped
back to 151 while deposits declined to 611. Net worth increased from 31 of
the total in 1980 to 71 in 1981 as a result of Government contributions, then
fell again to 32 in 1985, was maintained at that level through 1987, but
increased to 51 in 1988 due to large profits and equity infusions by
Government. TCZB's real net worth has fluctuated with the cycle of Government
equity contributions and reached peaks in 1970, 1976, and 1981. The level in
1988 of 51 of total resources compares to about 81 for private commercial
banks in Turkey and will need to be raised further if TCZB is to adapt itself



-15-
to a market environment. The Government intends to provide additional equity
resources to TCZB (para 4.11). As a first step in the right direction, TZCB's
Board and the High Economic Council"' have decided to increase TZCB's
authorized capital from TL 200 billion to TL 500 billion. Additionally, it
has been decreed (Law No. 3380) that, starting from 1987, a portion of
agricultural taxes collected may be allocated to TCZB. TCZB's projections for
1988-92 show that the equity contributions expected as a result of this law
would increase the ratio of net worth to average total resources to about 6.5%
by 1990, which would be a more satisfactory level.
3.19     As noted above, the total agricultural credit portfolio has declined
in relation to total assets since 1980, while farm credit and the commercial
loan portfolio have grown. Large relative increases were encountered in cash
and bank balances, which rose from 15S of assets in 1980 to 25% in 1988, and
in the bond portfolio, which increased from 42 to 15b over the same period. A
rising share of resources has been allocated to these items because of the
high returns on time deposits and Government bonds. At the request of the
Bank, TCZB carried out in June/July 1988 a preliminary review of its loan
portfolio with the objective of: (i) classifying its loans outstanding
end-1987 in accordance with the requirements of the provisioning Decree
promulgated in May 1988; and (ii) determining also the performance status of
those loans which are exempted from the application of the Decree. The review
that was carried out by an internal task force of TCZB permits the conclusion
that TCZBwill have no difficulty to bring its provisions for bad debts to the
level required by the Decree at the end of 1988. Total arrears in
agricultual lending were TL 772 billion equivalent to 25% of TL 3,061 billion
outstanding it December 31, 1987. The agewise breakdown showed that of the
251 loans in arrears 5S were overdue for less than six months, 16% for more
than 6 but less than 12 months, 1% for more than 12 but less than 24 months,
and 31 for more than 2 years. Including the estimated cases of loss of
creditworthiness for which provisions of 151 are required, for agricultural
loans total provisions of TL 242 billion would have been required. The
corresxonding figure for commercial loans was calculated to be TL 40 billion,
leading to total provisions required of TL 281 billion as compared to
provisions actually made of TL 237 billion. The analysis revealed also that
the performance status of loans exempted from the application of the Decree,
in particular agricultural support loans, was unsatisfactory. As at
December 31, 1987, an amount of TL 762 billion was outstanding as claim
vis-a-vis the Government under such loans. Agreement on the settlement of
these claims has been reached (para 5.06).
3.20     Financial Performance.  TCZB has earned a small net income in nominal
terms for the past 20 years. In recent years, however, it has had to allocate
an increasing share of resources to deposits in other banks, Government bonds,
and commercial loans in order to offset low returns on agricultural credit.
To be able to earn a satisfactory return on agricultural credit in the future,
besides being positive in real terms, general agricultural interest rates
would have to be high enough to fully cover resource, administrative, and risk
costs. This objective would be achieved over the medium term (para 5.08) and
1/   Cabinet-level economic policy-making body.



-16-
wuitil it is reached Government would have to continue compensating TCZB for
subsidized lending. While the general subsidy to TCZB for lending to farmers
has been reduced progressively to 31, subsidies of 11 to 15% are required to
compensate TCZB for the reduced interest rates for livestock and fertilizer
(paras 3.08-3.09). A table with TCZB's financial ratios is in Annex 1,
Table 11.
C. Agricultural Credit Cooperatives (TKK)
Obiectives and Functions
3.21     The TKK system in Turkey, which operates under the overall contrcl of
MAFRA, consists of the Central Union, 16 regional unions, and 2,320 primary
cooperatives. The latter have a total membership of 1.6 million farmers. The
primary cooperatives provide short- and medium-term credit to members, who are
mostly small- and medium-scale farmers, and supply production inputs and
agricultural machinery and equipment to them. The Central Union formulates
operational policies, recruits and trains staff, arranges supply of
agricultural inputs, and exercises financial and administrative supervision.
The regional unions function as field arms of the CeAtral Union. In order to
strengthen the cooperative credit system, the new management of the Central
Union has taken several initiatives. A study of the TKK was undertaken by a
team of international and local consultants with financing from Project
Preparation Advance P-74-TU, and the recommendations on a comprehensive
development pian for the TKK are being reviewed by TKK and the Government.
The proposed project would continue the support for TCZB's program and would
strengthen- the credit program of the TKK. The Government also is undertaking
a study of the sales cooperatives, with funds provided under the ASAL, aimed
at improving their effectiveness and efficiency which may result in reducing
the drain on TCZB's resources and making better use of its funds.
Organization and Management
3.22     The Government-nominated Board of Directors of the Central Union has
been replaced in 1988 by a Board consisting of the Government-appointed
Chairman and General Manager, three directors representing MAFRA, TCZB and the
Ministry of Finance, and six directors elected by regional unions. The
regional unions are managed by boards of directors of seven members, and each
cooperative has a managing committee of five members. The organizational
structure of the Central Union is given in Chart 30748-1. The TKK employ about
4,750 personnel, which include about 260 staff posted in the Central Union and
310 in the 16 regional unions. Training of new recruits and junior level
staff is provided at the training center in Ankara.
Lending Policies and Operations
3.23     Cooperatives follow the guidelines prepared by TCZB and endorsed by
the Central Union for their lending operations. Crop production loans are
allowed for a maximum period of one year and equipment credits for periods of
1-5 years. For all loans, co-guarantees of three members are normally
accepted as security. Interest rates are two percentage points above those
charged by TCZB. Loans outstanding from the cooperatives to their members
increased in 1985 terms from TL 140 billion in 1980 to TL 291 billion in 1986,



-17-
or by 108b. Over one million farmers received loans in 1986. About 802 of
the loans disbursed annually are for agricultural produccion and the remainder
for purchase of small farm machinery and equipment. In recent years,
borrowings from TCZB have provided about 70% of the funds lent to TKR members,
and these borrowings have constituted nearly half of total farm credit
provided by TCZB. The total value of agricultural inputs supplied in 1985 by
TKK, mostly against production and equipment credits, was about TL 118
billion. For these inputs, the cooperatives have a total storage capacity of
827,000 tons, of which 593,000 tons capacity is owned by them.
Financial Position and Performance
3.24     The resources of the TKK system include borrowings from TCZB, which
constitute the major source of funds, the capital collected from members, and
the reserves and other funds built upon annual profits. The resources are
deployed mostly in loan operations. The gross assets of cooperatives
increased in 1985 terms from TL 167 billion in 1980 to TL 321 billion in
1986. During the same period the net worth in 1985 terms increased from TL 32
billion to TL 103 billion (Annex 2, Tables 1 and 3). The loan collection
ratio for the TKK declined from 83% in 1980 to 73% in 1984, and further to 65S
in 1985 and 62Z in 1986 due to widespread drought. TCZB reports that the
repayment performance of the TKK on borrowings from TCZB is good and that
cooperatives cover any shortfall from unpaid balances from members by their
own funds' (Apnex 2, Table 2). Improvements in loan appraisal and supervision
should raise collection performance, and a collection drive has been launched
with the assistance of TCZB. The financial performance of the TKK system has
been satisfactory. The Central Union, regional unions and most of the
cooperatives have been working at a profit. The proportion of profitable
cooperatives to total number of cooperatives increased from 48X in 1980 to 942
in 1985.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives and Rationale
4.01     The proposed project would support the strengthening of TCZB and the
credit operations of the TKK, the institutions which provide virtually all of
the country's agricultural credit. It would also aim at expanding
agricultural credit in 45 of the country's 67 provinces (Map IBRD 20320) to
meet the full requirements of farmers currently receiving credit and to reach
creditworthy farmers prev_ously without access to institutional credit, thus
facilitating the growth of agricultural production and incomes (para 4.20).
The project would contribute to strengthening TCZB's financial position
through supporting arrangements that would increase its equity, settling the
claims of TCZB to Government, and improving its ratio of net worth to total
assets. Through further analyzing its portfolio of overdue agricultural loans
and its equity portfolio, TCZB would become positioned to take the appropriate
measures concerning provisioning and write-offs. Thus, the Bank's involvement
in the proposed third project is needed: (i) to maintain the momentum in the
institutional development of TCZB including organizational and procedural
measures and improvements in TCZB's financial position through analysis of its



-18-
loan and equity portfolio, and to reach agreement with the Government on
equity contributions and a spread for TCZB that would cover all lending
related costs; and (ii) to help fill TCZB's resource gap in a three-year time
slice that is projected to be TL 2,525 billion (US$1.2 billion) in the years
1989-91.
B. Proiect Description
4.02     The proposed project is expected to be implemented over a three-year
period (1988-89 to 1990-91) and would encompass lending activities of both
TCZb and the TKK.  Retroactive financing would cover the period from July 1,
1988 to loan signature (para 4.28).
4.03     Institutional Development.  TCZB's institutional development program
was initiated under the Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2318-TU,
paras 2.17-2.18) and good progress was made toward achieving the institutional
objectives. For the period of the proposed project, the development program
would cover measures such as further organizational restructuring, improving
management information, rationalizing lending operations, and upgrading staff
resources to enable TCZB to enhance further the effectiveness and efficiency
of its credit delivery system. It would involve adoption by TCZB of a policy
statement; completion of its reorganization and decentralization programs;
refinement of lending policies and procedures; strengthening of financial
management, including the introduction of program budgeting and expansion of
cost accounting; and personnel development involving manpower planning,
performance evaluation,.compensation, and training (paras 4.05-4.16). TKK
credit operations also wouId be improved through their adoption of lending
policies and procedures for project credit similar to those to be utilized by
TCZB (paras 4.17-4.18).  The recently-completed study of the TKK has proposed
a comprehensive institutional development program which might be supported by
UNDP or a future Bank operation.
4.04     Credit Program.  The project's credit program would consist of
incremental short-term production credit and medium- and long-term investment
credit in 45 provinces (pares 4.20-4.21). In addition to providing credit
directly to farmers, TCZB would provide funds through cooperatives which meet
a set of viability criteria. Credit would be provided under lending policies
and procedures contained in agricultural credit guidelines and in project
credit guidelines to be adopted by TCZB and reflected in an agreement between
TCZB and the TKK.
C. Detailed Features
Institutional Development
4.05     A study for the initiation of TCZB's institutional development
program, financed under the Agricultural Credit and Agro-industries Project
(Loan 1248-TU) in 1980/81, was undertaken by international consultants (Touche
Ross) and is being implemented in accordance with an action plan prepared in
1982/83 by TCZB with the assistance of the Turkish Hacettepe Univeisity. It
encompasses changes in organization and lending policies and procedures,
introduction of a management information system, prepiration of a rolling



-19-
five-year financial plan, improvement of budgeting processes, refinement of
the accounting system, and an external triining program for selected
management and staff. Under SACP, FAO has assisted TCZB in undertaking a
study of systems and procedures (which will provide an input for the MIS and
for a revision of loan processing forms), a study of the accounting system
(including computerization), and the external training program.
4.06     TCZB has agreed that, as a continuation of this program, a  number of
measures would be taken before negotiations of the proposed project:
(i) adoption of a policy statement (Annex 3), (ii) delegation of loan review
authority to main branches in at least 10 provinces, (iii) an increase of the
loan approval authority of large provincial branches to the maximum legal
limit, (iv) submission of a proposal for the annual adjustment of legal loan
approval limits to compensate for inflation, (v) issuance of revised
agricultural credit guidelines, (vi) establishment of a system for preparing
and updating typical crop budgets and investment models, and
(vii) introduction of the typical crop budgets in at least 10 provinces. TCZB
confirmed that all these actions were taken except the adoption of revised
agricultural credit guidelines which would ta're place in the near future.
Continuation of the institutional development program discussed in more detail
in paras 4.07-4.16 below, would be described in a supplemental letter with
attached action matrix (Annex 4).
4.07     TCZB planned the reorganization of its head office structure with the
aim of increasing the efficiency of its operations and strengthening the
management kupervision of its branches by reducing the number of units to
tlhich branches are responsible. Following the appointment of new Assistant
General Managers, the headquarters departments were first rearranged to have
inter-related units report to one Assistant General Manager. A more extensive
reorganization to make TCZB a more functionally oriented institution took
place -4-1988. It has used the main recommendations of the study of systems
and procedures financed under SACP. To assist TCZB in the various actions
related to reorganization, introduction of an MIS, and the improvement of M&E,
program budgeting and cost accounting systems, 26 man-months of integrated
consultancy services would be financed under the project (paras 4.10,
4.12-4.13). Nine man-months of these would be used for a coordinator and
consultant on banking services and MIS including cost accounting and program
budgeting.
4.08     A key feature of TCZB's decentralization program is the delegation of
authority to main provincial branches to approve loan proposals from smaller
branches. If the experience in the initial 10 provinces is successful, such
authority would be extended to main branches in the total project area by
March 1989 and to main branches in the remainder of the country by end-1989.
In order to ensure that loans are approved at branch level to the maximum
extent appropriate, TCZB would annually adjust the branch loan approval limits
within the legal limits to compensate for inflation. TCZB has proposed to the
Turkish Bankers' Association that it recommend to the Government the annual
adjustment of the legal limits to prevent their erosion by inflation. TCZB
would also review the limits annually to accommodate the growing capability of
branches on a branch-by-branch basis.



-20-
4.09     New Appraisal and supervision practices have been adopted.  The
system of typical enterprise models (crop budgets and investment models) would
be extended to the project area at the beginning of 1989 and to the remannder
of the country at the beginning of 1990. The models would be utilized in the
appraisal of loan applications and in the supervision of production/investment
operations. A 10 sample of short-term production loan applications would be
reviewed in the field by agricultural technicians (vocational school
graduates), and all medium- and long-term investment loan applications by
professional staff (university graduates). TCZB already has sufficient
agricultural technicians to meet the requirement for production loans, and a
staffing plan to meet the requirement for investment loans in the project
provinces would be agreed at negotiations (para 5.09). In order to ensure
adequate mobility for loan appraisal, supervision, and evaluation, four-wheel
drive vehicles would be provided by TCZB from domestic sources at a ratio of
one for every three professional staff, or about 189 vehicles in total.
Principles for implemventation of project credit (Annex 6) were agreed at
negotiationb and would be incorporated in either the agricultural credit
guidelines or the project credit guidelines to be issued as a condition of
effectiveness (para 5.10).
4.10     TCZB is introducing a system for the monitoring and evaluation (S&E)
of a sample of production and investment activities which it finances
(directly and through the TKI.) in order to assess their impact and modify
future loan operations accordingly. In particular, the data would be used to
revise the technical and financial parameters of the enterprise models. The
organizational arrangements include the establishment of a unit in the Project
Analysis Department (PAD) to determine the methodology and superviie its
application. Smaller teams of specialists at the regional offices are to
guide the M&E activities of the professional staff and technicians at
branches, who would collect data during supervision visits to farms. The
initial regional teams were to be established by end-1988. To provide
necessary mobility for M&E staff, a four-wheel drive vehicle would be included
in the project for the PAD unit and each of the regional teams, or a total of
11 vehicles. A consultant would be retained for about 6 man-months to assist
in designing and implementing the M&E methodology.
4.11     In the area of financial management, TCZB has introduced a
medium-term (five-year) financial plan which will help it to adapt its
operations to the financial needs of the agriculture sector, anticipate likely
resource availabilities and requirements, and assess the implications of
expected resource costs. During project implementation, Government would make
capital contributions which would strengthen TCZB's equity position in
accordance with an agreed plan (para 5.06). TCZB would undertake two analyses
to provide the basis for refinements of current financial policies. The first
would be an analysis of non-performing agricultural loans and arrears to
produce recommendations on criteria for appropriate provisions for bad debts
and writing off loans. The second analysis would pertain to the equity
portfolio and would address issues such as the appropriate valuation of equity
investments, the need for provisions for potential losses, and criteria for
acquisition and disposal of shares. The first phase of the equity investment
analysis would focus on agro-industry, in accordance with arrangements
discussed in connection with the Bank's agro-industry study, and the second



-21-
phase would addreEs remaining equity investments. Terms of reference and
timetables for the analyses would be agreed with the Bank. The
recommendations made and the intended programs for dealing with the findings
of the two analyses would be reviewed by Government, TCZB and the Bank.
4.12     With respect to budgeting, TCZB has initiated the preparation of
budgets on the basis of requests submitted by branches. TCZB would further
enhance the system by introducing program budgeting, which would provide the
capability of allocating administrative resources in accordance with the
requirements of its operating programs and activities. Program budgeting
would complement the cost accounting system, which would record costs in
accordance with the programs and activities for which they are incurred.
Since program budgeting would be a new procedure for TCZB, the consultant on
banking services (para 4.07) would assist in designing and implementing the
system.
4.13     The FAO-assisted consultant study (para 4.05) has made proposals for
the establishment of a cost accounting capability which would permit TCZB to
determine the profitability of individual lending and other operations. The
institution of the cost accounting capability would need to be continued
during the proposed project, and implementation of some other refinements of
the accounting system (particularly with regard to the computerization of the
system) also would continue during this period. The consultant on banking
services (para 4.07) would assist TCZB with this work. Additionally, five
man-months in short-term consultancy would be available to TCZB to assist in
any highly specialized field of activity that may need improvement.
4.14     In January 1988, the law in force for all SEEs (Decree No. 233) was
modified to give more authority in personnel matters to the Executive Board of
SEEs, particularly in adopting personnel regulations for contract staff.
Accordingly, in July 1988 TCZB issued its own personnel regulations for
contract staff which outline a new and more attractive system of remuneration
for staff exercising the choice to transfer to contract status. Since then
almost all staff have elected contract status. TCZB's personnel system has
evolved in an ad hoc manner, in response to immediate needs and various
regulations under which the institution has operated.  There is a need for
TCZB to develop proposals, particularly regarding manpower planning,
performance evaluation, and staff compensation which fit overall development
requirements of the institution as a whole, implement actions within the scope
of its authority, and recommend actions on matters which require authorization
from other entities (e.g., from the Prime Ministry). TCZB also would
strengthen and expand its staff training program. Manpower planning would
include the determination of staff required for carrying out TCZB's
operations, redeployment of staff from surplus to deficit units, and
recruitment of persons with required skills which are not available among
existing staff. The process would include identification of training
requirements for redeployed and new staff and the formulation of proposals
for dealing with redundant staff.



-22-
4.15     TCZB's performance evaluation system needs to be revised to increase
its focus on job performance. In all cases, the evaluation should be
undertaken by superiors to whom staff are directly responsible and staff need
to be informed of the evaluations results in order to understand how to
improve their performance.. TCZB needs to formulate proposals on salaries and
benefits which are based on conditions in the market for staff, particularly
regarding compensation provided by competitors such as the Central Bank and
commercial banks. TCZB intends to underLake studies of manpower planning,
performance evaluation, and compensation and to prepare proposals for
appropriate modifications of these systems. Terms of reference for these
studies would be agreed with the Bank, and they are scheduled to be completed
by mid-1990. Six man-months of consultancy services would be provided for
this purpose.
4.16     TCZB would strengthen its staff training program through the
introduction of new courses and arrangements with MAFRA for technical
training. It is preparing new courses in farm production analysis (for
short-term lending operations), farm investment analysis (for medium- and
long-term lending), and monitoring and evaluation. It is arranging with MAFIA
for its technical staff to attend workshops which would enable them to remain
current about developments in agricultural technology. For the longer term,
TCZB intends to undertake a needs assessment, based on a skills gap analysis,
to define training requirements for all major groups of staff. It would then
modify its training program as appropriate to address those needs. In order
to develop a capalbility to undertake such an assessment, TCZB would provide
training in this field for some of its management and staff. The project
would include about 20 fellowships for specialized training and for the top
graduates of the above courses to further their knowledge at institutions
abroad. Another 10 fellowships each would be provided to train system
analysts of the Automation Department in special software applications in
TCZB's computerization program, and for training in general banking.  The
fellowships would be provided in accordance with a program to be prepared by
TCZB and agreed with the Bank.
4.17     The TKK have been implementing an institutional development program
under the guidance of the Board of Directors and General Manager. It includes
strengthening of the management information, accounting, internal auditing,
and training systems. in addition, a technical capability for application in
the lending operations and other activities of the TKK is being introduced for
the first time. The proposed project would contribute to the strengthening of
TKK credit operations through the adoption by TKK of policies and procedures
for project credit similar to those to be applied by TCZiB. These policies and
procedures would entail the use of enterprise models and the involvement of
technical staff in loan appraisal and supervision. Enterprise models would be
utilized for short-term production loans and for investment loans other than
for equipment. The crop budgets for short-term loans would be obtained from
TCZB, while the models for investments (e.g. orchard establishment, livestock
development, and land development) would be prepared by TKK agricultural
engineers in consultation with TCZB.



-23-
4.18     Short-term production loans and medium-term equipment loans would be
appraised and supervised by agricultural technicians stationed at central
cooperatives on a 5% sample basis, while agricultural engineers would appraise
and supervise medium- and long-term investment loans other than for
equipment. The engineers would also provide guidance to the technicians on
production and equipment loans. The TKK already bave sufficient agricultural
engineers, and a staffing plan for agricultural technicians would be agreed
between TCZB and the TKK. The above policies and procedures would be
incorporated in an agreement between the TKK and TCZB satisfactory to the
Bank, to be signed as a condition of disbursement for loans through the TKK
(para 5.02).
Credit Program
4.19     TCZB would provide project funds directly to farmers in accordance
with the agricultural and project credit guidelines (para 5.10) and indirectly
through the TKK in accordance with its agreement with the TKK (para 5.02).
The program would include credit for activities and areas covered under
previous agricultural credit, livestock, and rural development projects
supported by the Bank. New loans would be made only after existing loans are
fully drawn down. Furthermore, project credit would continue to complement
the improvement and dissemination of agricultural technology under the-
Bank-supported research and extension project. In order to focus on the
expansion of credit and the growth of agricultural production and
productivity, the project's credit program would be defined in terms of the
real increase in short-term credit disbursements and total disbursements of
medium- and long-term credit during the project period. Projections are based
on experience over the past seven years and the increasing demand resulting
from the factors mentioned in para 3.14.
4.20     The area to be included it, the credit program would be 45 provinces
covered by extension, rural development, and livestock projects supported by
the Bank. These provinces are considered to have a core extension service
that is improving and is expected to be capable of complementing project
credit (Annex 7 and map IBRD 20320) during project implementation. Agreements
woul be reached at negotiations to ensure adequate TCZB staffing (para 4.09)
in these 45 provinces. Adequate TKK staffing would be provided for in an
agreement between TCZB and TKK (para 5.02). In the case of the TKK, only
those individual cooperatives which meet standards for sound operation would
be eligible for participation (para 5.09). The proportion of cooperatives
within the project provinces which meet these standards is expected to
increase from about 32% in 1988 to about 45% in 1990.
4.21     The credit program would include all crop and livestock production
and investment activities.  Incremental short-term credit would  e provided
for production inputs such as land preparation, seed, fertilizer,
agrochemicals, animal feed, hired labor, and transportation, in accordance
with credit norms determined by the Government (currently ranging from 100% of
fertilizer cost to about 601 for hired labor). Investment credit would be
provided for farm mechanization, livestock, and horticulture. Livestock
operations would include sheep breeding and fattening, goat breeding, beef
fattening, dairying, and poultry (broilers and eggs). Investment inputs
financed would include machinery, equipment, civil works (e.g. barns, feed



-24-
storage facilities), planting material, and breeding stock. Farmer
contributions to investment cost required by TCZB currently range from 10 for
small farmers to 40% for investments. The TKK generally require a 25b
contribution from farmers.
D. Project Costs
4.22     Total project cost (of which credit comprises 99.61 and institutional
development the rest) is estimated at TL 3,350 billion or US$1,127 million
equivalent, of which the foreign exchange component would be about TL 1,822
billion (US$667 million) or 461. Taxes of about TL 335 billion
(US$123 million), or about 101, are included. Base cost is estimated at
prices up-dated to October 1988. The credit component is expressed in current
terms based on estimates for the three-year credit program of TCZB reflecting
historical lending patterns and adjusted for factors such as the phasing out
of the fertilizer subsidy and the introduction of new appraisal criteria.
Since the costs of activities to be financed by credit have ouly been
approximately estimated, and thus the actual lending program would vary in
accordance with market demand, neither physical nor price contingencies have
been calculated for this component. For the institutional development
component a physical contingency of 10% is included for equipment. Price
contingencies for this component on US$ base costs amount to US$0.2 million.
They bave been computed on the basis of 1.2% for 1988 (2 months only), 8.41
for 1989, 0.21 for 1990, and 1.71 for 1991 based on Bank projections regarding
the Manufacturing Unit Value Index for Turkey's main trading partners,
compounded annually (changes in Turkish exchange rates are expected to
compensate for the difference between domestic and foreign inflation).
Project costs are summarized in Table 4.1 and presented in detail in Annex 8.
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
% Foreign    Z Total
Local  Forein    Total   Local  Eglmens   Total   Exchanne   Base Costs
------(TL Billion)-------   ------(USt Million)-
A. Farnm Develooment Loans
Incremental Production  236.9    82.2    319.1    87.5   30.4    117.9      26          10
Investment          1,584.0  1.438.5  3,022.L   578.4    526.5  1.104.9    48           90
Subtotal            1,820.9  1,520.7  3,341.6   665.9    556.9  1,222.8     46         100
S. Institutional Develoement
Vehicles                0.7     3.6      4.3    0.4       2.1      2.5      83           -
Consultant Services    0.1      0.5      0.6    0.1       0.3      0.4      85           -
Fellowships                     0.4      0.4      _       0.3      0.      100           -
Subtotal Base Cost      0.8     4.6      5.4    0.5       2.7      3.2      84           -
Physical Contingencies   -      0.4      0.4      -       0.3      0.3      83           -
Price Contingencies    0.5      2.2      z.a     0.1      0.1 2I           46           -
Subtotal                1.3     7.2      8.5     0.6      3J       Li7      85           -
C. Total Project Cost    1,822.2  1,527.9  3,350.1   666.5    560.0  1,226.5   46          100
of which:
Total Base Cost     1,821.7  1,525.3  3,347.0   666.4    559.6  1,226.0     46         100
Contingencies           0.5     2.6      3.1    0.1       0.4      0.5      84           _



-25-
E. Financing
4.23     The project financing plan is given below.
Table 4.2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
rARMERS    TCZS La    TKK        DANK        Total
*                                                     For,
Amount 2   Asount  2   Amount X   Amt  2    Amount  X   Exch.
__==    :__ 2 _:: 2: 22   _
!. INVESTMENT COSTS
At FAR DEtVELOPMENT
INCRE!ENTAL PRODUCTION          23.6 20.0  64,5 54.7   6.8 5.7  23.' 19.6   117.9  9.6  30,4
INUESTINT                     322,9 29.2  537,4 48.6  18.4 1.)  "226.3 20.5  1,104.9 90.1 526.5
Sub-Total FARM DEVELOPMENT        346.5 28.3  601.8 49.2  25.1 2.14  249.4 20.4  1,222,8 ".7  5.9
S. INSTITUTIONAL EVELOPMENT
VEHICLES                               -   3,0 100.0         '          -     3.0  0.2  2.5
CONSLTANT SERVICES                 -   -   0.1 15.0      -   -   0.3 85.0    0,4  0.0  0,3
FELLOUSHIPS                        -   -     -   -       -   -   0.3 100.0    0,3  0.0  0.3
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT    -      3.0 83.0     -   -   0.6 17,0    3.7  0.3  3.1
---- -    - --   - ---   ----  - ---- --- -  -- -- - - --   --- -
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              346.5 28.2  604,9 49.3  25.1 2.0  '50.0 20.4  1.226,5 100.0 560'0
Total Disbursent                     346.5 28,  604.9 49.3  25.1 2.0  250.0 20.4  l.226.5 100.0 560.0
22__ :2-:=_ =2= *22  22222 222           2::5-_2::: 2e=2  222_
/a  A portion of the funds disbursed by TCZB is expected to be covered by a
loan from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund for Japan.
4.24     The proposed Bank loan of US$250 million equivalent would represent
202 of project cost and 45S of the estimated foreign exchange cost. It would
finance 221 of the resource gap projected by TCZB for its agricultural lending
in 1989-91. TCZB would onlend most of the Bank loan proceeds to farmers to
cover part of their production/investment costs under either direct credit
(estimated at US$203.3 million, 812), or under indirect credit through TKK
(estimated at US$46.1 million, 18X). TCZB would utilize the balance of loan
proceeds to cover 1001 of the foreign cost of training fellowships and 100% of
the cost of consultants (US$0.6 million, 12). The Bank loan would be for 17
years, including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.



-26-
4.25     The Government would be the borrower.  It would onlend the proceeds
of the Bank loan to TCZB and bear the foreign exchange risk. TCZB would pay
the interest charged on its loans (currently 34-702, depending on the size and
purpose of the credit), less a margin for TCZB of four percentage points,
applied to the amount of the loan in Turkish lira to the Government. The
difference between the payments to be received from TCZB and the Bank's
variable lending rate would be the prerium for the Government's foreign
exchange risk coverage. In 1987, a margin of 4X would have been enough to
cover staff cost. Since staff and administrative costs are expected to
decline in relative terms, however, the margin would leave some room to cover
risk costs from 1990 onwards. The arrangements regarding the foreign exchange
risk assumption would be set out in an agreement between the Government and
TCZB, satisfactory to the Bank, which would be signed as a condition of
effectiveness. An assurance on this matter was obtained at negotiations.
4.26     Given a weighted average interest rate of about 39.7S on farm credit
estimated for 1988 and the current Bank interest rate of 7.65b, TCZB would pay
the Government a premium of about 32.1S. As long as the foreign exchange rate
depreciates by more than 32.12, the coverage of the foreign exchange rate by
Government would constitute a subsidy to borrowing farmers. This subsidy
resulting from the current structure of agricultural interest rates is
expected to decline as Government adjusts minimum interest rates to achieve
positive real rates, no later than March 31, 1991.
F. Procurement
4.27     Procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in the
following table showing approximate amounts, including contingencies.
Table 4.3: PROCUREMEN1T METHODS
ICB       LCB            Other              Total Cost
(- - - - - - -US$ ulillion equivalent) - 
Farm credit            -           -            1,222.8             1,222.8
(249.4)            (249.4)
Equipment                                           3.0                 3.0
_   _                ~~~~(-)             (-)
Consultants            -                            0.4                 0.4
_          _                (0.3)              (0.3)
Fellowships            -          -                 0.3                 0.3
_          _                (0.3)              (0.3)
Total                  -           -            1,226.5             1,226.5
-                         (250.0)            (250.0)
Note: Figures without parentheses represent total project costs including
contingencies.  Figures in parentheses represent Bank loan financing.
Farm inputs financed by credit would be purchased individually by a large
number of farmers in small quantities at different times and locations through
established commercial channels. Therefore they are not suitable for bulk
procurement. Existing commercial markets for input supplies offer farmers a
wide range of items at competitive prices which generally reflect



-27-
international prices. There is an extensive network of private dealers which
sell and service a variety of farm machinery and equipment. Most of it is
produced locally, often under license from foreign manufacturers. Veh:icles
would be procured under reserved procurement procedures and would therefore
not be eligible for Bank financing. Recruitment of consultants would be in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines on the use of consultants. Fellowships
would be provided in accordance with agreed arrangements. Agreement Las been
obtained at negotiations on the above procurement procedures.
G. Disbursement
4.28     The proposed Bank loan of US$250 million equivalent is expected to be
disbursed over a period of four years. This projection is shorter than the
disbursement profile for all agricultural projects in Turkey because of the
experience with Loan 2318-TU for the Second Agricultural Credit Project which
was closed on June 30, 1988, i.e., six months later than envisaged. A summary
of the disbursement schedule is given below, while the detailed schedule is
shown in Annex 8, Table 5. Loans disbursed by TCZB between July 1, 1988 and
the loan signature date would be covered by retroactive financing of up to 10%
of the loan amount.
Table 4.4: DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Fiscal Year
1S90    1991    1992    1993    1994
(US$ million)-
Annual                     78      60      69      36        7
Cumulative                 78     138     207     243      250
4.29     The allocation of loan proceeds and disbursement procedures to be
applied are given below.
Table 4.5: DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES
Loan                  Amount                Disbursement
Category              (US$ million)            Procedure
1. Farm credit
a. Incremental short-term   23.1   35% of incremental TCZB disbursements /a
b. Medium- and long-term   226.3  451 of TCZB disbursements
2. Consultant services           0.3   100X of total expenditures
3. Fellowships                   0.3   1001 of foreign expenditure
Total                     250.0
/a The disbursement percentage would be applied to incremental disbursements
in constant terms. These would be determined by adjusting the
disbursements in the calendar quarter of the preceding year by the
wholesale price index of Turkey and deducting the amount of these
disbursements from the disbursements of the quarter for which reimbursement
is claimed.



-z8-
Disbursements for farm credit (Category 1, Table 4.5) would be made against
certified statements of expenditure and withdrawal applications for farm
credit would be for amounts equivalent to at least us$500,000. Documentation
for these statements would be retained by TCZB and the TKK for review by the
Bank and the external auditors. Disbursements for consultant services and
fellowships would be made against standard documentation. To facilitate
disbursement in the categories covering medium- and long-term farm credit,
consultant services and fellowships a special account (revolving fund) would
be established in the Central Bank of Turkey. Disbursements for incremental
short-term production credit would not be made from the special account to
enable the calculation of disbursements in consultant terms.  The initial
deposit of US$30 million is estimated to cover approximately four months of
Bank disbursements under those categories.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.01     While the Government of Turkey would be the Borrower of the Loan,
TCZB would be the principal project entity and would implement the project in
accordance with arrangements agreed with the Bank. Particular features of the
coordination, institutional development, credit including on-lending terms,
monitoring and evaluation, and accounting/auditing arrangements are described
below.
A. Coordination
5.02     Close coordination would be maintained among TCZB, the TKK, and
MAFRA. Proceeds of the Bank loan to be channelled through the TKK would be
provided to individual cooperatives by TCZB branches in accordance with an
agreement satisfactory to the Bank to be signed as a condition of disbursement
of loans through the TKK. This agreement would specify the project lending
policies and procedures which would be followed by the TKK, primarily
concerning the use of enterprise models and the involvement of technical
staff. The TCZB/MAFRA arrangements as described in paras 5.04-5.05 below
would be contained in a general protocol (Annex 14, Implementation Volume)
applicable to the project and which would be signed as a condition of
effectiveness. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (i) the
arrangements between TCZB and TKK and TCZB and MAFRA would be incorporated in
agreements or protocols satisfactory to the Bank, and (ii) these agreements or
protocols would not be changed in a way that would adversely affect the
project.
5.03     TCZB would allocate project funds to qualified individual TKK
cooperatives on the basis of recommendations of the Central Union. As the
typical crop budgets and investment models are prepared, TCZB would provide
copies to the TKK for use in granting project credit. A sample of TKK farmers
would be included in the evaluation of project impact at farm level to be
undertaken by TCZB, and results of the analyses would be provided to the TKK.
TCZB would allocate a number of slots in its courses for the training of TKK
loan officers and technicians.



-29-
5.04     In order to benefit from the expertise and experience of MAFRA, TCZB
would consult with the ministry on technical parameters and cost/price data
for use in the typical crop budgets/investment models and individual farm
plans, and would provide copies of the budgets/models to MAFRA as they are
prepared. TCZB would avail itself of data from MAFRA surveys in its
evaluation of project impact and would provide results of the analysis to the
ministry. To ensure that its technical staff keep abreast of current
developments in agricultural technology, TCZB would make arrangements for such
staff to participate in relevant workshops and training sessions for extension
persc' ael operated by MAFRA. As part of the effort to achieve close
coordination of credit and extension activities, TCZB would provide lists of
borrowers to MAFRA, and it would arrange periodiz meetings at national,
provincial, and local levels among officials of TCZB, the TKK, and MAFRA. In
cooperation with TCZB, TKK would make arrangements with MAFRA for the training
of its technical staff. To facilitate the provision of extension services to
borrowers, the TKK would provide lists of credit recipients to MAFRA.
5.05     On its part, MAFRA would provide to TCZB current farm-level technical
and financial data, as well as the results of surveys for purposes of
evaluating project impact. It would notify TCZB and the TKK of workshops and
training sessions which would be appropriate for technical staff of the credit
institutions and would allocate slots for these staff. Finally, MAFRA would
provide technical guidance to borrowers in matters such as the selection of
contact farmers, the establishment of demonstration plots, and the proper use
of pesticides as part of its regular extension program.
B. Institutional Development
5.06     The content of TCZB's institutional development program is specified
in an Action Plan adopted by TCZB's Board of Directors in December 1986. This
Action Plan with attached action matrix (Annex 4) was updated and agreed at
negotiations and will be signed as a supplemental letter. TCZB has confirmed
its agreement to retain consultants satisfactory to the Bank, on terms ard
conditions and in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Bank, to
assist in the-work program related to reorganization; introduction of an MIS;
improvement of the M&E system; completion of its cost accounting system; and
introduction of program budgeting, as described in Chapter IV. It has also
indicated the arrangements for, and the timing of, the manpower planning,
performance evaluation, and compensation studies which it intends to undertake
(paras 4.14-4.16). Futhermore, TCZB has stated its intention to undertake
analyses of its agricultural loans and its equity portfolio, in accordance
with timing and terms of reference agreed with the Bank. Government has
agreed to clear its debts to TCZB from price support programs (para 3.19) by
providing to TCZB negotiable bonds at a variable interest rate equivalent to
the average rate of which six-month Treasury bills have been sold over the
past year. Should TCZB's involvement in support price programs also be
required in the future, arrangements would be made, designed to ensure that
TCZB's future involvement in these programs or in programs similar to them
shall not adversely affect its lending operations or its financial viability.
Also, Government has committed itself to strengthening TCZB's equity base to
reach a ratio of net worth to average total resources of at least 61 by the
end of 1991. Accordingly, assurances were obtained at negotiations that:



-30-
(i) TCZB would carry out the above institutional development program; and
(ii) Government would: (a) by December 31, 1989, compensate TCZB for overdue
amounts under loans to the agricultural sales cooperatives made with
Government guarantees; (b) make suitable arrangements for financing any future
programs for the procurement of agricultural commodities to ensure that the
operation of such programs does not adversely affect TCZB's lending to farmers
or its financial viability; and (c) strengthen TCZB's equity position as
described above.
C. Credit Program
5.07     TCZB would provide direct credit to farmers under terms and
conditions specified in its agricultural and project credit guidelines (para
5.10). Indirect farm credit would be provided through the TKK under terms and
conditions specified in the agreement between TCZB and the TKK (para 5.02).
5.08     By March 31, 1991, the minimum rates charged on all of TCZB's lending
operations would be set at positive levels in real terms and would not be
allowed to drop below that level thereafter. Positive lending rates in real
terms are defined as interest rates which exceed an index, composed of the
change in the Whole Sale Price Index (WPI) during the previous 12 months, and
the projected change in the WPI during the next 12 months, both weighted
equally. Consultations on interest rates and financial structure would
continue to be held as part of the growing collaboration among the Government,
TCZB, and the Bank concerning the development of the financial sector. Action
to bring interest rates back to positive levels would be taken in stages and
would be controlled by a review mechanism under which Governmenit and TCZB
would at least once per year by June 30 review the adequacy of agricultural
interest rates and make recommendations for their adjustment, if necessary.
The results of such review would be made available to the Bank for comments.
Establishing the review mechanism would be a condition of effectiveness. 'The
Government of Turkey promised to take all necessary action before the Loan
documents would be signed. Steps to bring interest rates to positive levels
were taken in February snd November 1988. Further steps in this direction
were announced in May 1989 consisting of: (a) limiting access by farmers to
loans at the minimum rate of 34% per annum by (i) making such loans available
only for short-term loans for the procurement of fertilizer as seasonal input
and short- and medium-term loans for livestock fattening and/or breeding
activities, and for fisheries; (ii) limiting the amount of individual loans to
TL 5 million expressed in 1988 liras for short-term loans and to TL 20 million
expressed in 1988 liras for medium-term loans; (iii) limiting the availability
of such loans to one per season per borrower in the case of short-term loans
and one in three years (or whatever the duration of the respective medium-term
loans may be) in the case of medium-term loans; (iv) ensuring that the total
volume of such loans outstanding at the end of any year will not exceed the
value in real terms of such loans outstanding at the end of 1988; and (b)
ensure that loans for combine harvesters and tractors will carry an interest
rate per annum of not less than 552. Assurances were obtained the Government
would: (1) set all agricultural interest rates at positive levels in real
terms by March 31, 1991; (2) bring the weighted average interest rate for
input and investment loans to farmers and sales cooperatives and for loans to
agro-industry to positive real levels by March 31, 1990; (3) set agricultural



-31-
interest rates by December 31, 1991 at levels which would allow TCZB to cover
the cost of resources, administration and the lending risk and to make a
reasonable profit to remunerate its reserves; and (4) not lower agricultural
interest rates below the rates in effect at the date the agreements will be
signed unless agreed as result of the review described above.
5.09     To support its new appraisal and supervision practices (para 4.09),
and as provided in its staffing plan (Annex 4), TCZB intends to have one
agricultural technician for every 3,500 short-term loans and one professional
staff for every 300 investment loans in each of the project provinces by the
beginning of the project period, and one professional staff for every 200
investment loans by the second year of the project. TCZB would endeavor to
maintain the respective ratios thereafter. The new appraisal and supervision
practices introduced by TCZB would undoubtedly have a beneficial effect on
TCZB's and the TKK's loan recovery. In accordance with the agreement to be
signed with TCZB (para 5.02), the TKK would also achieve staffing levels of
one agricultural technician per 3,500 short-term loans and one agricultural
engineer per 300 medium-term non-equipment loans in each project province by
the beginning of the project period and would maintain these ratios
thereafter. In addition, the TKK each year through the Central Union would
make recommendations on the credit allocation for each cooperative and, at the
same time, would indicate which cooperatives within the province had satisfied
the following eligibility criteria:
(a) the cooperative collected in the previous year not less than 75S of
the total amount due (net of rescheduling);
(b) it worked at a profit during the previous, two years;
(c) its equity, consisting of paid-in capital, free reserves/funds and
undistributed profit, at the end of the previous year was at least
20 of the outstanding loans due from members-
(d) its borrowings from TCZB at the end of the prev:.ous year did not
exceed the amount of current loans outstanding from members;
(e) it was audited by MAFRA or the Central Union at least once during the
previous two years and no serious financial and/or management
irregularities reported; and
(f) its general body and management committee met, in accordance with the
law, in the previous year and approved the annual accounts.
Accordingly, assurances were obtained at negotiations that (i) TCZB and TKK
would maintain staffing ratios for technical staff as described above; and
(ii) TKK would indicate annually to TCZB which cooperatives meet the above
eligibility criteria.
5.10     TCZB and the Bank have reached preliminary agreement on principles
for implementation of the project credit program which are to be incorporated
in TCZB's agricultural credit guidelines or in the project credit guidelines.
In addition to the enterprise model system and the adequacy of staff, the



-32-
guidelines would address matters such as security requirements, subloan terms,
and aspects to be given particular attention during appraisal. They would
specify that real estate mortgages normally would not be required as security
for production or machinery/equipment loans. Short-term loans normally would
be granted for a period up to one year, while the repayment period and any
grace period for medium- and long-term loans would be based on the cash flow
of the investment activity and the sub-borrower's overall repayment capacity.
In the preparation of typical investment models and establishing appraisal
criteria for individual farm investments, TCZB would give special attention to
setting specific requirements for those activities for which there are
uncertainties in the input or output markets which could adversely affect the
viability of the investment.L' The execution of "Project Credit Guidelines"
and "Agricultural Credit Guidelines" would be conditions of effectiveness and
assurances were obtained at negotiations that no changes in the Project or the
Agricultural Credit Guidelines with material adverse effect on the project
would be introduced without the prior agreement of the Bank. An assurance was
also obtained that project credit would be provided for activities covered
under other ongoing projects only if funds included under these other
projects have been exhausted.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.11     Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) for the project would address the
progress and impact of the institutional development and credit programs.
Semiannual progress reports on the inseitutional development program and the
credit program would be prepared by TCZE (incorporating data from the TKK in
the latter) and provided to the Bank within two months from the end of each
period.  TCZB's central and regional M&E uni.s would focus on the impact on
farm production and income of activities financed under the project and would
give particular attention to the use of pesticides by farmer beneficiaries
which should be in compliance with the Bank's guidelines for the use of
pesticides. The results of these analyses would be utilized for purposes such
as the modification of crop budgets7and investment models, adjustment of
appraisal criteria, refinement of Government policy on the use of
agrochemicals (para 7.13), and preparation of the mid-term and project
completion reports. This work would utilize data from MAFRA's surveys for the
extension projects, as well as the data collected by TCZB. The scope and
methodology of the M&E work under the project would be determined in
consultation with the Bank. The M&E units would also prepare special studies
on institutional development as considered necessary. TCZB would prepare a
mid-term evaluation report and a project completion report, incorporating data
provided by the TSK. The content of the reports would be agreed with the
Bank, as would the timing of the mid-term report. The completion report would
ke submitted to the Bank within six months of the closing date. Accordingly,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that: (i) M&E work of scope and
methodology determined in consultation with the Bank would be undertaken;
(ii) the N&E unit would submit semi-annual progress reports and mid-term and
project completion reports to the Bank; and (iii) TCZB would not make
1/   Activities requiring special attention at present are tractor
mechanization, horticulture, beef fattening, milk production, and poultry
production.



-33-
sub-loans to individual farmers identified in sub-loan supervision or in M&E
studies as misusing pesticides until agreement is reached on corrective
measures in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for the selection and use of
pesticides.
E. Accounting and Auditing
5.12     TCZB and the TKK would maintain separate project accounts and produce
annual financial statements (income statement, balance sheet, and funds flow
statement) which would, together with the general accounts, be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Internal auditing of TCZB is
undertaken by its Board of Inspectors, which is being strengthened to expand
the frequency of its audits. By the first year of the project the frequency
oA br8a-ch auditing would be raised to once a year for large- and medium-size
brauches and once in two years for small branches. These measures are
included in TCZB's institutional development program (paras 4.07-4.16). The
external audit of TCZB has been undertaken by the Treasury's Board of Sworn
Bank Examiners, however, the emphasis has been on compliance with legislative
and administrative requirements. Under regulations issued by the Central
Bank, the certification of the annual financial statements of banks is
expected to be undertaken by independent non-governmental auditors as soon as
sufficient numbers of anditors of acceptable standard are available and
detailed guidelines have been issued by the Central Bank. TCZB employed
external auditors for a partial audit of its 1987 accounts and is expected to
have them undertake a full audit of the 1988 accounts.
5.13     The Inspection Directorate of the TKK Central Union also is being
strengthened to extend internal auditing to the Central Union accounts and to
achieve a frequency of individual cooperative audit of once in two years by
the end of the project period. Responsibility for the external audit of the
TKK recently was transferred from TCZB to MAFRA. The Technical Services and
Education Department of MAFIA, which has had responsibility for auditing
forest and village development cooperatives, is expanding its'staff to
undertake the audit of the TKK and would achieve a frequency of audit for each
cooperative participating in the project of once every two years by 1990.
5.14     The above arrangements for the internal and external auditing of TCZB
and the TKK are satisfactory. TCZB would send the Bank certified financial
statements and related audit reports with English translations within nine
months of the close of each financial year. Similar statements and reports
for the credit cooperatives participating in the project would be submitted to
TCZB under the terms of the TCZB/TKK agreement. The Government would send the
Bank audit reports on the special account, also within nine months of the
close of each financial year. Assurances on the above were obtained at
negotiations.



-34-
VI. PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
6.01     Production.  The farm investments and production inputs financed
under the project would enable farmers to intensify cultivation and animal
husbandry and thereby increase agricultural output. Short-term crop
production credit would assist farmers to purchase improved seed, fertilizers,
and pest control chemicals, as well as to finance land preparation and labor
costs, as elements of improved technical packages for crop production.
Medium/long-term credit for investments in livestock production would assist
farmers to provide low cost but adequate housing and stores for breeding,
feeding, and fattening operations, and improved genetic stock for higher
yields of milk, meat, and wool. Investments in modern farm equipment would
enable farmers to achieve early and better crop plowing and sowing, better
soil moisture infiltration and storage, and reduced cultivation costs.
6.02     Incremental output under the projcct is estimated on the basis of the
projected utilization of credit for the various production and investment
activities and the yield increases assumed in the crop budgets/investment
models prepared to analyze these activities (Annex 15, Implementation
Volume). The models are of illustrative nature and will have to be modified
to take account of prevailing circumstances in individual regions of the
country. Actual production by project farmers will of course vary in response
to changes in output prices and input costs.
6.03     Marketing.  Incremental output from the project would be absorbed
primarily by growing domestic consumption. Only limited;quantities are
expected to be exported, as opportunities arise. Rising population and
incoLles will continue to stimulate domestic consumption, which is generally
below European per capita levels except for wheat and meat. Turkey has
established export markets in Europe and the Middle East and, in general, is
expected to maintain them in spite of increasing competition. The situation
for individual commodities is summarized in Annex 9.
6.04     Chemical Inputs and Seeds.  Turkey currently imports about 20% of its
fertilizers. Fertilizer is produced domestically by both public and private
sector firms and farmers should encounter few problems in obtaining
fertilizers during the project period. Pesticides are mixed locally with
imported ingredients and sold to farmers by both public and private sector
firms licensed by MAFRA and are widely available. Encouraged by Government, a
private sector seed industry, with foreign seed companies' participation in 20
joint ventures, has become well-established in the past few years. The
private firms concentrate on the production and importation of hybrid seeds.
Since private marketing of wheat and barley seeds has been typically less
profitable than other seeds, these seeds will continue to be produced by
TIGEM. Thus, improved seed would be generally available to project farmers.
6.05     Machinery.  Farm machinery and implements are widely available, with
production and distribution primarily in the private sector, although Lwo SEES
(TZDK and TUMUSAN) play a significant role. Eleven firms produce tractors,
and some 1,100 firms produce other agricultural machinery and implements.
Since the average tractor density is high (one per 49 ha of farmland), the
possibilities for a tractor owner to sell tractor services are limited.



-35-
Therefore TCZB would give special emphasis to this aspect when considering
loan applications for tractors, to ensure that the tractors will be utilized
in a viable manner.
VII. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01     The project would result in substantial benefits for the implementing
agencies, the farmers receiving credit, and the economy. The major
institutionel development efforts supported under the project would produce
significant improvements in the mobilization and allocation of financial
Lesources for agriculture. Both mobilization and allocation would be affected
by the systemic changes being introduced by TCZB in terms of organizational
structure, allocation of decision-making authority, lending policies and
procedures, condition of the agricultural loan portfolio, program budgeting,
cost accounting, and personnel development. Bringing minimum agricultural
lending rates to positive real levels will allow TCZB to allocate a higher
proportion of its expanded resources to agricultural credit and provide a
larger proportion of expanded agricultural credit to smaller farmers.
Measures such as the enhancement of the appraisal/supervision/evaluation
process would result in the provision of adequate amounts of credit to farmers
for productive uses in a timely manner and would also contribute to improving
recovery. Analyses of typical crop budgets and investment models indicate
that farmers would earn attractive returns from activities financed with
project credit and that returns to the economy also would be substantial. In
addition, the economy would benefit from increased employment and higher
foreign exchange earnings/savings.
A. Financial Benefits and Returns
Farm Incomes
7.02     To test the project's effects on farmers' incomes and on Turkey's
economy, models have been developed for 10 crops, eight animal production
activities, and one tractor mechanization operation. The activities and sizes
selected represent Turkey's major agricultural outputs and productive
activities, as well as typical lending patterns by TCZB. With the project, by
utilizing credit to meet their needs, farmers would purchase improved seed,
apply appropriate types and amounts of fertilizer, use plant protection
chemicals, and hire additional labor to carry out farm activities in a more
timely manner. The technical coefficients applied in the models are derived
from MAFRA and TCZB recommendations, farmers' practices, project completion
reports, and mission observations. In the analysis of the effect on farmers'
incomes, gross value of production and cost of inputs have been valued in
constant mid-1986 farmgate prices. Unit costs/prices include a 101 value
added tax on all commercially purchased inputs, a 7% production tax on crop
sales, and a 31 production tax on sales of animal products.
7.03     Crop Budaets.  Estimated per hectare financial budgets for the 10
reprezentative crops under the production credit program indicate that the
ratio of incremental revenues to incremental costs ranges from 1.3 to 2.4,
indicating a favorable return to the farmer. TCZB would revise the crop
budgets prior to each season to check the viability of production packages,
determine appropriate credit amounts, and provide guidance to branch personnel.



-36-
7.04     Investment Models.  Producers' benefits from project investments are
suimarized in Annex 9, Table 4 and detailed in individual farm models
(Implementation Volume, Annex 15). The estimated financial rates of return
(FRRs) indicate that the typical investments to be assisted by project
financing are viable with rates of return above Turkey's opportunity cost of
capital (0CC), assumed to be 12b in real terms. TCZB would revise the
investment models annually to ensure the continued viability of activities and
provide guidance to branch personnel.
B. Economic Benefits and Returns
7.05     Assumptions.  Economic production budgets on a per hectare basis for
the 10 representative crops and the economic rate of return (ERR) and net
present value (NPV) for the farm investment models were prepared to assess the
project's impact on the economy. The ERRs range from 17 to 71X. The
assumptions underlying the analysis are set out in Aninex 9, Table 2.
7.06     Crop Budgets.  The economic budget estimates indicate that the
incremental benefits would significantly exceed the incremental production
costs for the 10 representative crops. The benefit/cost ratios would range
from 1.3 to 3.5. The economy would thus realize a net incremental benefit
from the additional output of each of the crops financed by shor;-term credit.
7.07     Investment Models.  The results of the investment.model.analyses are
summarized in Table 7.1 and discussed below (details are in Annex 15,
Implementation Volume).
Table 7.1: SUMMARY OF ERR's FOR INVESTMENT MODELS
/a      Net Present
Type of Activity        ERR         Switching Values             Value
(1)        R         I       OC     ('000 1986 TL)
Mechanization              50       -46       105      433         7,939
Beef Fattening             71       -13       390        15       11,110
Dairying                   25       -24        94        46       10,965
Broiler Production         37        -3        44         3        2,095
Egg Production             39        -5        81         6       15,011
Goat Breeding              19       -11        33        19        1,411
Sheep Breeding             17        -8        23        15        1,388
Sheep Fattening            47        -3        78         4          982
/a  Percentage change that would bring the ERR to the OCC of 12X.
7.08     The ERR estimates indicate that the 10 representative investments
would be economically viable. For most investments, the ERR exceeds the FRR
because the removal of transfer payments (especially the production tax on
gross revenue) outweighs the valuation of family labor. However, the ERrAs for
broiler, egg, and goat investments are lower than the FRRs because of the
impact of feed concentrate on operating cost. The concentrate has a high



-37-
import content (e.g. maize and soybean), and the economic price is
substantially higher than the subsidized domestic price. The ERR for
mechanization is based on replacement of equipment for ongoing operations and
the assumption th&t failure to replace would result in partially mechanized
(rental), low-output activity.
7.09     Sensitivity Anallsis.  The sensitivities of the ERR estimates are
reflected in the switching values for revenues (R), investment costs (I), and
operating costs (OC) which show the respective percentage decrease or iacrease
bringing the ERR estimate to the level of the opportunity cost of capital
(OCC) in real terms (12%) and the net present value estimate to zero at a
discount rate equal to the OCC. The switching values indicate that the ERR
estimates, except for mechanization, are relatively sensitive to variations in
operating costs and revenues because of generally high volumes of annual
inputs and outputs. However, normal variations in output prices over the
medium/long term would be accompanied by parallel adjustments in input prices
and operating costs, which would maintain the viability of the investments.
The ERR estimates are relatively insensitive to variations in investment
costs, with increases of more than 402 generally required to bring the ERR
down to the OCC, although the sheep and goat breeding ERRs ere more sensitive,
requiring an increase of 33S and 23X, respectively, to equate the ERR and
0CC.  The economic viability of the latter investment would be reviewed again
during the mid-term evaluation of the project.
Beneficiaries and Employment
7.10     The project would directly benefit about 170,000 farmers from the
expansion of the short-term production credit, and about 40,000 from the
expansion of investment credit. Since TCZB currently does not maintain
statistics on the size or income distribution of its borrowers,-  the
distribution of project benefits cannot be determined. However, in terms of
the typical farmers expected to participate in the project, all except cotton
farmers receiving incremental short-term credit would have incomes below the
relative poverty level (RPL) for Turkey, estimated at TL 227,500 per capita
(US$340 equivalent in mid-1986), or 30% of the per capita GNP. The typical
cotton farmer would have an income somewhat above the RPL. All typical
farmers receiving wedium- and long-term credit would have incomes below the
RPL without the project. With the project, incomes of beef and sheep
fattening farmers would still be below the RPL, while the incomes of all other
typical farmers would be above the RPL at full development.
7.11     As a result of the expansion of annual production, additional
employment would be created for hired labor during peak periods; such
increased employment would amount to about 1.0 million man-days annually (or
3,600 man-years at 275 days per year). Farm investments to be financed would
increase incomes for approximately 40,000 farmers. These investments would
also increase employment for the farm family and additional hired labor,
1/   These statistics would be developed in the MIS system being introduced
under the project.



-38-
amounting to about 1.8 million man-days annually (or 6,500 man-years).
Unquantifiable benefits would also accrue to secondary and tertiary industries
supplying goods and services which are widely scattered throughout the
country, as well as to food processing, transport and machinery repair
enterprises.
Foreign Exchange
7.12     The potential additional exports or reduction in imports of
commodities and livestock pyoducts, at full development, would generate
incremental foreign exchange earnings or savings which are roughly estimated
to be US$130 million equivalent annually. The volumes of earnings/savings and
the price assumptions are summarized in Annex 9, Table 3.
Environmental Impact
7.13     The primary environmental concern related to the project is that of
the use of agrochemicals, particularly pesticides, by farmer beneficiaries.
The manufacture and importation of agrochemicals is regulated by MAFRA through
the issuance of licenses, which are withheld for substances considered to have
significant harmful effects on users, the public, or the environment in
general. It belongs to the objectives of the extension service of MAFRA to
train farmers in pest control techniques, to encourage the appropriate use of
agrochemicals within a pest control program, in the selectioon and timing/rates
of application of agrochemicals, and in proper handling and application
procedures. The extension project currently being implemetted with Bank
support seeks to strengthen, inter alia, the capability of the extension
service to provide such guidance to farmers. However, much remains to be done
in this respect. Spot checks undertaken in the field during preparation and
appraisal of the proposed project suggest that the use of agrochemicals is
generally satisfactory. However, because knowledge is limited, this matter
would be given specific attention in the monitoring and evaluation of project
credit (para 5.11) and TCZB would not make sub-loans tQ farmers identified in
M&E studies or sub-loan supervision as utilizing pesticide selection, handling
and application procedures inconsistent with the Bank's guidelines until
agreements have been reached on corrective measures. The Bank would work with
the Government and TCZB to use the results of this effort in refining current
policy on the utilization of agrochemicals.
C. Project Risks
7.14     Continuation of high inflation and economic disequilibrium could
jeopardize the performance of the agriculture sector and reduce demand for
credit. The Government has committed itself to a package of reforms, which
are expected to reduce inflation and fiscal deficit. The Government and the
Bank are closely monitoring implementation of the reform program. Decreased
demand for agricultural output in domestic or foreign markets could result in
lower production and investment and perhaps affect credit repayments. The
negative impact on credit demand would be immediate and might also affect
future credit utilization, since the credit institutions generally do not lend
to delinquent borrowers. However, TCZB has completed a major exercise to
identify delinquent borrowers and clean up its portfolio. To date, TCZB has
not been seriously affected by adverse economic conditions, but its ultimate



-39-
viability depends on Government's willingness and ability to implement its
economic adjustment program and to provide equity contributions to TCZB that
would be sufficient to fend off potential difficulties.
7.15     A second major risk concerns delays or changes in the institutional
development program of TCZB which could impede expected improvements in the
effectiveness and efficiency of the credit delivery system, including the
allocation of credit between production and investment opportunities.
Progress in institutional development achieved so far has been such that it
would be difficult to stop the momentum that has developed. Furthermore, all
efforts will be made to maintain Government and TCZB commitment to
institutional improvement of TCZB. To achieve this objective intensive
discussions with Government and TCZB's management were undertaken in the
course of project preparation, appraisal and post-appraisal and would be
continued during project implementation.
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01     Agreement was obtained at negotiations on the following.
The Government would:
(a)   compensate TCZB by December 31, 1989 for overdue amounts under loans
to th!e agricultural sales cooperatives and make suitable arrangements
for financing further programs in a manner that does not adversely
affect TCZB's financial viability (para 5.06);
(b)   provide TCZB with additional equity resources (para 5.06);
(c)   (i) by March 31, 1990, bring the weighted average interest rate for
agricultural lending to positive levels in real terms; (ii) by
M6rch 31, 1991, set the minimum rates charged on all of TCZB's
lending operations at positive levels in real terms and maintain them
thereafter; and (iii) by December 31, 1991, set agricultural interest
rates at levels which would allow TCZB to cover all lending-related
costs (para 5.08);
(d)   cause MAFRA to audit the accounts and financial statements of the
TKR, achieving a frequency of audit for each cooperative
participating in the project of once every two years by 1990
(paras 5.13-5.14); and
(e)   submit to the Bank an audit report on the special account within nine
months of the close of each financial year (para 5.14).
TCZB would:
(a)   conclude an agreement satisfactory to the Bank for the provision of
project credit through the TKK (para 5.02);



-40-
(b)   undertake the' institutional development measures described in
paras 4.07-4.16-and incorporated in a supplemental letter with
attached action matrix (para 5.06);
(c)   undertake analyses of agricultural loan arrears and equity
investments in accordance with terms of reference agreed with the
Bank, review the findings and recomnondations and prepare an action
plan for their implementation (pare 3.06);
(d)   undertake personnel development studies in accordance with terms of
reference agreed with the Bank (para 5.n6);
(e)   employ consultants in accordance with Bank guidelines and a schedule
agreed with the Bank to assist in reorganization, introduction of
MIS, and improvement of M&E, program budgeting, and cost accounting
(para 5.06);
(f)   undertake project monitoring and evaluation according to such scope
and methodology as determined in consultation with the Bank
(para 5.11); and
(g) not make sub-loans to farmers identified in the monitoring and
evaluation process or in sub-loan supervision as misusing pesticides
until agreements have been reached on corrective measures (para 5.11).
(h)   arrange for TKK's participation in the project credit program in
accordance with an agreement satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.02).
8.02     Conditions of Effectiveness would be:
(a)   The signing of an agreement satisfactory to the Bank between
Government and TCZB on foreign exchange risk arrangements (para 4.25);
(b)   the signing of a protocol satisfactory to the Bank between TCZB and
MAPRA (pars 5.02);
(c)   the issuance by TCZB of agricultural credit guidelines and project
credit guidelines (para 5.10) both acceptable to the Bank; and
(d)   the institution of a mechanism for the review by Government and TCZB
of the appropriateness of agricultural interest rates at least once
per year, and their adjustment, if necessary (para 5.08).
8.03     Signing of an agreement satisfactory to the Bank between TCZB and the
TKK would be a condition of disbursement for loans through the TKK (para 5.02).
8.04     Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$250 million equivalent to the Government of
Turkey for a term of 17 years, including a five-year grace period. The
closing date would be December 31, 1992.



-41-
AN X 1
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TCZB Financial Data
9
Table 1 - Summary of Agricultural Loan Disbursements 1976-87
Table 2  -  Agricultural Loan Disbursements 1980-87
Table 3 - Agricultural Credit Disbursements 1980-87 (1985 TL billion)
Table 4  -  Comparative Balance Sheets 1976-8
Table 5  -  Changes in Net Worth 1976-88
Table 6 - Comparative Income Statements 1976-88
Table 7  -  Comparative Balance Sheets 1976-88 (1985 TL billion)
Table 8  - Changes in Net Worth 1976-8 (1985 TL billion)
Table 9  -  Comparative Income Statements 1976-88 (1985 TL billion)
Table 10 -  Loan Collection Performance 1980-8
Table 11 - Key Financial Indicators 1980-88



ThID AGRICULtURAL CREOIT PRIJECT
Summarv yf Aricultural Loan Dishursmmnts. 1976-87
(expressed in 19865 TL billion)
inzi  im  liza 1             m    im   im  lm  1m  1m  9m  1m   ma
Direct Loans by TCZB                 223       221      197       176       172      169       240      238       235      265       405       556
Indirect Loans Through TKK           Ii        1f       m         l        m         1i6       187      1.        21Q       1a       221      m
TOTAL FARM CREDIT                    407       415      370       392       345      334       427      450       445      483       683       896
Agoindustry Credits                           -_        -s    _ .Z   2                 a    8            1U       1.       .2         2        __
Subtotal                        407      420       375       394      348       342      433       461      463       107       706      903
Sales Cooperative Credit             670       722      567       609      453       462       201      243       164       183      369       228
Govt. Supply Agencies                134    ---6         96       21a        80      126         3        11             -         -   -         -.
TOTAL                              1.211    1,178    1,038    1,221        881       930       637      71S       627      690    1,075    1.131
TOTAL AS X GAP '                    22.3      21.7     21.3      26.S     20.0      20.1      13.6     15.8      13.2      15.4     21.2    21.3
ANNUAL GROMIn (X)                    -        -2.8    -11.9    +17.6    -24.6       +5.6    -31.6    +12.2    -12.3    +10.9    +5S.8   +S.2
Li Gross Agricultural Donmstic Product.
'-g-



ANNEX I
Table 2
Page 1 of 2
TUREY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TCZB: Agricultural Loan Disbursementg. 198k-87
(in 1985 Constant TL Million)
- 1980------- 1982 -----                            - 1984
TIXe of Credts                   No. of    Amount        No. of    Amount       No. of    Amount
Loans    Disbursed    Loans    Disbursed    Loans    Disbursed
SHORT-TERM CREDITS
Field crops                        624.044    40,365       623,499    S7,960       517.905    59,854
Tree, orchard, forestry            105,195    10,419       107,060    13,308       107,228    16,773
Livestock                          141,292    15,417       175,869    26,646       245.603    40,08S
Fishery credits                         756       514        1,306        962        1,689        107
TOPRAKSU credits Li                       -          -           37        50           26         78
Other                              2060.7Q   18440        273.2L1   A.LM241      257,250    34.836
IQL^l                            1,078i.194    8S.1SS   1.181.022   140,167   1,129.?01   152.533
MEDIUM- AND LONG-TERM CREDITS
Agricultural machinery and
equipment                         25.773    21,363        21,586    30,744        25,072    27,012
Livestock                           86.070    47.629        48,055    44.660        46,053    36,445
Field crops                          3,095      2,275        1,998      3,79S        1,506      1,376
Tree orchard                         3,119      7,906        2,899      5,891        4,031      5,485
Fishery credits                         390       482          838      2,930        1,025      2,764
TOPRAKSU credits La                   3.966     2,984        5,866      6,369        7,242      5.513
other                               6.482    4.194          S.327 n     .655         3.566    3.770
Total                     ~~~~~~~~128.895    86i-E3X  8s.5E9   100.044     8e9,25    a2.3fis
AGRO-INDUSTY CREDITS
Food  ndustry                            19     2.166            7      5,918          133    12,580
Thread weaving and leather                3        96             3        58           13      4,778
Agricultural equipment and
machinery                               1        52            6         94            2        171
Other                                    ]A       191            4      --w             A          2
Intia                                    3f Liiii               2Q      6.292          JU      17557
COOPERATIVE CREDITS
Agricultural credit cooperatives         -    173,454           -    186,666            -    209,678
Agricultural sale cooperatives           -    452,824            -    201.314           -    164.489
Agricultural supply organizations        -     80.315           _       2. a49          _       -
Total                                   -_-  70f.i93                 _390829                 374.1iZ
GRAND TOTAL                        1.20712t8  8M1,0M6   1.2fiA681   63Z-332  1L21853so   626.622
NA = Not available because of introduction of revised uniform accounting plan for all banks in
1986.
LI General Directorate of Land and Water Conservation in HAJRA.



-44-                                   ANNEX_1
Table 2
Page 2 of 2
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TC2B: Agricultural Loan Disbursements. 10a8-87
(in 1985 Constant TL Million)
-- 1985 -----                 1986 ------  ----- 1987 --
TIXe of Credst                  No. of    Amount       No. of    Amount       No. of    Amount
Loans    Disbursed    Loans    Disbursed    Lgans    Disbursed
SHORT-TERN CREDITS
Field crops                       441,617    S5,982         NA         NA          NA          NA
Tree, orchard, forestry            95,421    19.081         NA         NA          NA          NA
Livestock                         249,835    59,961         NA         NA          NA          NA
Fishery credits                       480        922        NA         NA          NA          NA
TOPRAKSU credits LI                    13         79        NA         NA          NA          NA
Other                             467.415   i61,54Z         MA         MA          NA          MA
IQLal                           1,2S4.781   197,529   1.16lS.379   2a2-s6    1 293,712   390,0SE
MEDIUM- AND LONG-TERM CREDITS
AgricultUral machinery and
equipment                        17,170    21,262         NA         NA          NA          NA
Livestock                          37,937    27,950         NA         NA          NA          NA
Field crops                           640        347        NA         NA          NA          NA
Tree orchard                        7,603      7,952        NA         NA          NA          NA
Fishery credits                       683      2,282        NA         NA          NA          NA
TOPRAKSU credits La                 6,214     4,572         NA         NA          NA          NA
Other                              4.,102    2.L82          MA         MA        _NA           MA
Total                              74-349    fiZ.121      ZA3406   122.006       97.084   Ifi.188
AGRO-INDUSTRY CREDITS
Food industry                          30    17,5t5  *        22       NA             17     3,133
Thread weaving and leather              1        264           5       NA              1       189
Agricultural equipment and
machinery                             -          -            1      NA              1       164
other                                  iQ      f.657          13       NA             A      2.231
Total                                  51    24436            41    23L0l1                   S L.717
COOPERATIVE CREDITS
Agricultural credit cooperatives       -    218,535           -    277,832            -    339,649
Agricultural sale cooperatives         -    1b3,288           -    368,650            -    228,248
Agricultural supply organizations      _        -             -        - -                    -
Total                                  -    401.23                  6 46,82          -    5a897
GRAND TOTAL                       1,329.472   695S.19    1,236.822 L Q074.05A   1J39082af LL29.a57
NA = Not available because of introduction of revised uniform accounting plan for all banks in
1986.
LI General Directorate of Land and Water Conservation in MAFRA.



T-fl
TN=s  L1       R   lEIT 711DJS
:   Aar4eul I ' Lan "                       8
(in Current n Milian)
-   19         0--t   - 12                   -1984                  -- ----  -----19      -- 1986                  1997
TVo of C*ndit                    ae. of   _at          No. of   Aeout         oo. f   Asount        no. of   Aount        Mo. of       amount    fo. of       ount
pos       M  *        L2=_ Otrd    L             t  il*           LD5    mburd   LDmL               iSbnd   L s             burd
Field creps                        624,054     8,480     623,499    20,849       17,985    42.75    441.617    ss.982        NA           NA         IA         NA
Tree. ochard. forestry             105.195     2.189      107.0o      4,787     107,228    11.981      95.421    19.081         A           A         MA          OA
Livestock                          141.292     5.229      175.8s      9.585     245,603    28.632     249.635    59.961        NA           NA         NA         oA
Fishery credits                        756       108        1.20        26        1.649       648         480       922        NA           NA        tlA         OA
TOMWKS credits a                         -                     37        18          26        56          Is        79        aA           NA         NA         *A
Ocar                              _Z-           az        27&2,fi    14m2 1     28Z2M      1m          ML-415   filZ A       ILN         -  INA        KA         NA
htm                              L*ZLJM        17J2    L1181022    SC.42BlAE  22ai   10            LJ2S4I7Z1   19ZJII   J-1-             366211  1-2Lf712         7.27
Agricultural oaetnc  y and
eOqutt 2A7m                                  4.4a8      21.586    11.059       25.072    19.294      17.170    21.262        KA           NA        WA          KA
Livestock                           86.070    10.006       48.OS5    16.05       46.051    26.032      37.9J7    27.9S'        NA           NA        WA          NA
Field crops                          3.091       478        1.998     1.3S5       1,t56       983         640       147        WA            A        IIA        IIA
Tree oremrd                          3.119     1,661        2.899     2,119       4.031     3.918       7.602     7.952        WA           NA         NA         WA
FishWy credits                         390       101         838      1.054       1,025     1.974         68J    2.282         WA           WA        WA          WA
TOFU  credits a                      2.966       627       S,8S6      2.291       7.242     3.928       6.214     4.572        WA           WA        WA          OA
Ou                   rJ8                          "I        5,2       1,0 n       2.       1 2S n       4.100     2.82 S    NA               Na A      m           At
Ttlo                               IZ .89      1a8J42     88.5S9    SS.QS7       U,482S   AL.8         74.149   67. 120      73.406       ISR.120   97.08       284.341
Ote                                               m              ~                  a          m        AU LW
food e _ t y                            19       45            77     2,128         133     8.986          3o    17,515          22        7.293         17       5.359
Thread weavin and leathetr               2         20                    21          13    3,413            1       2S4           5        9.243          1         323
Agricultural eopient and
echtnery                                I        11           6        34           2       122           -         -            1          294         1         280
Other                                   lfi                               o A  80   -A        20 20               6 6S7               12U  12.           11       LA816
Xual                                    32         32Q    2.26 LII                         12.S41          5     24.4            41        23L.3                  977l8
cOQP1!rAtSE CWEI=
Agricultural credit cooperatives        -     36.440           -    67.146           -    149.769          -   218.535            -       360.470        -      581.044
Agricultural sale cooperatives          -    9f,131            -     72.415          -    117.492          -    141.288           -       477.71         -      3.468
Agicoltural supply organitations              -loam     _       -  16 _2S           -      -              -_
Total                                  -      14a.444       ,_.   IlA-                    267.21_    4-1.823                     _SLE4                   -       71.12
6R  fA                             1.207.128   18S.012   1.2fi2 8S   229-256      2!QS    447582   i.i2mm   S91.048    jjm-a 22    1211fa  I-.28  1."2.866p
L    After Introduction of unwterm acountin  plan  _ noeos  In se  categories'm  longer available.                                                                                 II!
a   General O0rectoto of Land and Wter Conservation In .RA .



TURIEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREOIT PROJECT
TCZB: Camarative Balance Sheets (1976-19891e
(amounts in TL billion)
1 9 7 6        1 9 7 7         1 98            1 9 7 9         1 9 8 0          1 9 B 1
AMount          Amount   Z     AMount   X      AMount   Z      Amount          Amount   X
Cash and banks                     10.8   13       17.1   16       22.5   17      33.0   16       54.6   15       78.6   13
Bond portfolio                      0.7     1       2.6     2       2 5     2      3.2    2       17.7     5      24.3     4
Agricultural Credit
Direct credit                    10.7   13       13.5   13       17.4   13      24.1   12       44.0   12       72.1    12
TKK                               4.1     5       5.2     5      7.5     6      10.1     S      21.9    6       34.7   12
Sales cooperatives               22.5    28      27.9   26      24.4   18       44.7   22       72.8   20    141.4   23
SEEs (mainly TZDK)                8.1    10       7.S     7      11.4    9      36.5   18       55.3    1S      87.1    14
Arrears Li                        9.8    12      13.9   13      20.8   16       18.2    9       23.0     6      27.6    4
Total                           5S.2   68        68.0    64     81.5   61       133.6   67    217.0   56    362.9   59
Comnercial Credit
Notes receivable                  1.4    2        1.4     1      2.0     1       3.4    2        2.4     1       3.5     1
Loans                             2.7     3      4.5     4       5.2    4        6.3     3      11.2     3      18.4    3
Credit lines                      4.2     5       5.9    6       7.1     S       9.4    5       28.8     a      61 7    10
Arrears                           0.3     0       0.4    0       3.6     3       1.8     1       1.4     0       4.9     1
Total                             8.6   11       12.2   11      17.9   13       20.9   10       43.8    12      88.5   14
Equity investments                  0.6     1      0.6     1       0.7     1       1.2     1       1.6    0        3.2     1
Fixed assets L&                    0.7      1       1.0    1       1.3     1       1.7     1       2.3     1       3.2     1
Other assets                        4.3    5       4.9     s       7.4    6        7.1     4      36.0   10       59.5    10
_____________ -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                              80.9   100     106.4  100    133.8  100    200.7   100    373.0   100    620.2   100
Liabilities
Local deposits                     39.4   49      49.4   46       65.3    49      99.7   S0    151.8   41    290.6   47
Foreign currency deposits          0.0     0       0.0     0       0.0     0       0.0     0       0.0     0       0.3    0
Borrowings from CBT                24.3    30     33.9   32       35.7   27       65.5   33    150.8   40    195.1   31
Foreign borrowings                 0.0      3      0.0     0  .   0.0      0       0.0     0       0.0     0       7.7     1
Other liabilities                  14.0    17      20.2   19      29.2    22      30.1    1S      S9.3   16       96.2    14
i_____________________________,------------------------------- __________________________
Total                              77.7   96      103.5   97      130.2   97    195.3   97    361.9   97    579.9   94
Met Worth
Paid-in capital                     1.5    2        1.S    1       1.S     1       3.3    2        3.6     1      1S.0     2
Reserves                           0.S      1      0.S     0       0.6     0       1.6     1       1.7     0       3.3     1
Met income for year                 1.2     1      0.9      1       1.S    1       O.S    0        5.8     2      22.0     4
----------------------------------------------------------------------   __----- __------------
Total                               3.2    4        2.9     3      3.6     3       S.4     3      11.1     3      40.3     6
Total Liabilities and Net Worth      80.9   100     106.4  100      133.8   100    200.7  100    373.0   100    620.2   100              W
----- =   =-===--__=--=====- _=_==-3-======_-___-_==----==- __--               ======-0S 
La  Excludes arrears under one year on direct credit and arrears on TKK and SEE credit.
L& Net of depreciation.



TURKEY
Thu  *cmiiitie cfOf  PROJECT
TCiNt! Cmmrsaativa Ralanca Shrets (1976-19801
(OMunt in Ubillifon)
1 9 8 2         I 9 * 3         1 9 8 4         1 9 85          1 9 8 6          1 9 8 7          1 9 a 8
Amount   I      MOunt    S kutt                  ount    X Amount A             Aoount    X      Amount    2
Cash ond banks                    155.9   18    286.7   19        636.9   27      853.3   25   1.200.1   22   1,S84.4    19   3.241.5    25
Bond portfolio                     42.5     5      35.0     2     270.7   It    398.9   12    7M2.6   14  1.001.6    12   1,960.9   Is
Agricultural Credit
Direct credit                   125.1   15      181.9   12    274.0   12        428.0   13 )  923.9   17   1.573.3   18           NA
TIK                              50.3     6      n.8      5     107.0     4     169.0     5 )  257.2      5      475.1     6      NA
Sales cooperatives              15.3   18    185.0   12    142.1         6     342.2   10 )  574.5   10    680.2          8      NA
SEEs (vainly TZCK)               20.0     2      64.6     4       0.0     0       0.0     0       0.0      0      30.0     0      *A
Arrears                          24.8     3      49.9     3      63.5     3      92.1     3      37.8      1      57.5     1       0 L
Total                           371.8    43     553.9    37     586.6    2S   1,031.3    30   1.793.4   33  2,816.1    33  4,459.6    34
Coemrcial Cred1t
notes receivacle                  5.4     1       5.7     0       7.5     0      13.0     0      26.1      0      33.8     0      NA
Loans                            34.2     4      7S.6     5      97.3     4     238.2     7 )  836.4   15   1,882.8   22          NA
Credit lines                     U.7      7      25.7     2      53.6     2     186.7     5 )    -         -                      NA
Arrears                           4.9     1      57.5     4      81.6     3     108.0     3      41.2      1      20.9     0       0 Li
Total                           103.2   12      164.5   11    240.0   10    545.9   16    903.7   16   1,9)7.5    22   1,906.3    1S
Equity Investments                  3.7     0      10.2     1      12.3     1      20.3      1      21.8     0      46.8     1      42.S    a
Fixed assets n                      4.6     1      20.2     1      34.2     1      57.3     2      Vt.6 LI 2       132.3     2     252.7     2
Other assets                      173.5   20      424.7   28      601.5   25      498.7   1S    708.6    13    964.2    11   1.186.3         9
Total                             855.2   100   1,495.2   100   2,382.2   100   3,405.7   100   5.473.5   100  8,482.9   100  13,050.8  100
Local dePosits                    535.4   63      811.7    54   1,321.2   5S   2,193.7   64   3.07n.o    E6   4.021.3    47   6.569.9    SO
Foreign currency deposits           6.4     1       1.0     0     102.8     4     254.0     7    649.7   t2  1,138.2   14   1,819.8   14
Borrowings from CIT                74.0     9     162.0   11       39.2     2     159.4     5      265.7     5   1,295.2   1S   1,480.0   11
Foreign borrowings                  8.6     I      12.1     1      16.9     1      S5.9     2      100.1    2      340.7    4      278.1     2
Other liabilities                 184.8   22      452.9   30      834.1   35    647.4    19   1,228.5 i4 22   1,450.9   17   2.319.1  1i
Total                             809.2    95   1,439.7    96   2,314.2    97   3,310.4    97   5,321.0    97   8,246.3    97  12,466.9    95
Met Worth3
Paid-in capital                    15.2     2      31.4     2      33.2     1      33.6      1     66.6      1     100.9     1     191.4     2
Reserves                           19.1     1      21.0     1      28.7     1      49.3      1      70.3     1     110.0     2     220.4     2
Not income for year                11.9     1       3.1     0       6.1     0      12.4     0       15.6     0      25.7           172.1     1
Total                              46.0     5      SS.5     4      68.0     3      9S.3      3     152.5     3     236.6     3     583.9     5
Total Liabilities and Net Worth     855.2   100   1,495.2   100   2,382.2   100   3,405.7   100   5,473.5   100   8,482.9   100  13050.8   100
Adjustment oade by Sworn Bank
Examiners                           -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -    S19.7 Lj 6         -
Adjusted Total Assets/Liabilities   SS.2  100   1,495.2  100   2,382.2   100   3,405.7  100   S,473.5   100   7,963.2   100  13.050.8  100
Contra Accounts                      NA             892.3   60   1,513.5   64   2,426.5    71   3,687.3    67  10,895.3   128  28.892.1   221
,a Excludes arrears undOr one year on direct credit and arrears on TMK and SEE credit.
a   oet or depreciation.
LI  Includes special provision, accrued Interest, sundry debtors, and other assets.
!i Includes provisions. accrued interest, foreign cesoercial credits. and other liabilities.                                                     *   lib
Li   U 642 billion of arrears taken out of portfolio after full provision was made.                                                              m
LfIncludes other assets of U 465 billion.                                                                                                        t4 go
o 



-48-
ANNEX 1
Table 5
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TCZB: ChanRes in Net Worth (1976-1988)
(TL billion)
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Beginning balance         2.0      3.2     2.9      3.6     5.4    11.1
Net income                1.2      0.9     1.5      0.5     5.8    22.0
Capital adjustment4L-    0.0    -1.2    -0.8    -1.3    -0.1         7.2
Ending balance            3.2      2.9     3.6      5.4    11.1    40.3
1892    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Beginning balance        40.3    46.0    55.5    68.0    95.3   152.9   236.9
Net income               11.9      3.1     6.1    12.4    15.6    25.7   172.1
Capital adjustment4L    -6.2       6.4     6.4    14.9    41.6    58.4   174.9
*         Ending balance           46.0    55.5    68.0    95.3   152.9   236.6   583.9
Ll   Net adjustment resulting from devaluation of net monetary assets,
devaluation of fixed assets (revalued since 1982 but at 10 percentage
points less than the inflation rate), income tax, write-offs, and
increases in paid-in capital.



_ 49.                                               SQANNEX  I
Table  6
'URKEY                              Page  1 of 2
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TCZt:  Comparative Incooe Statements  (1976-1988)
_                    ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,......,.............................. ..................... .
aa,osints in TL billion)
l 916    1977    19751    1979    1980
Asount   2    Amount   Z    Amount   I    Aou,nt   I    Amount   I
VICUNE
Interest & co@,ij.fti
Agricaltural credit
Direct credit                         1.0   IS       1.4   16       1.9   15       3.2   17       9.0   20
TKIK                                  0.3    5       0.4    5       0.5    4       0.9    4       2       5
Sales cooperatives                    2.3   35       2.9   32       4.2   34       4.1   25      10.1   22
SEEs fmainly TZDK)                    0.9   12       0.9   tO       1.3   11       3.7   20       3.3    7
Arrears la                            0.0    0       0.0    0       0.0    0       0.0    0       0.0    0
Total                                 4.4   67       5.5   63       7.9   64      12.4   66      24.7   55
Ccusercial credit
Notes receivable                      0.1    2       0.1    1       0.2    2       0.2    1       0.5    I
Loans                                 0.4    6       0.6    7       1.0    9       1.4    7       4.2    9
Credit lines                          0.3    5       0.5    6       0.6    5       1.0    5       9.9   20
Arrears la                            0.0    0       0.e    0       0.0    0       0.0    0       0.2    0
Total                                 0.9   12       1.2   14       1.9   15       2.6   14      13.9   31
hon  portfolio                          0.1    2       0.2    2       0.3    2       0.5    3        0.?    2
Other incoee                            0.9   12       1.0   It        1.3   It       1.8   1O       3.0    7
Total                                   6.1   92       7.9   91       11.3   92     17.3   93      42.2   94
Profit froe foreign exchange
transactions /b                         0.3    5       0.6    7       0.9    7       0.9    5        1.o    4
3tner incoah                               0.2           0.2    2       0.2    2       0.5    3        1.2
Total                                     6.6  1O0       8.7   00       12.3  100      18.7  100     45.0  04
EXPENSES
Staf0  copensaFtion                        1.5   23      2.2   25        3.4   29       7.4 M 0       !'.1   2
Interet on deposits                        1.8   27      '.1   24       2.7   22       5.5   29       7.7   17
Interest on CIT borrowings                :.1   17       1.7   20       2.3   19       3.2   17      1.7 J
Other expenses                             1.0   is       1.8   21      2.4   20        2.1   11       7.J  1'
Total                                      5.4   92       7.8   90      10.8   88      18.2   97     '^9.2   87
NET INcONE                                   1.2   1o       0.9   10       1.5   12       0.5    3       5.8   13
....    .....__.. _.._._....._.._._
14 Repreients actual col' ctimn of interest. Interest is not accrued on arrowas.
lb Not of expenses.
7Ct3tNE  5:13/7?



nmi
THIRD AGRICULIRftAL CREDIT PROJECT
TCZB:  Comarative Income Statemnts 11976-1988
(amounts in TL billion)
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__-------------------------------------------------------
1 9 8 1      1 9 8 2       1 9 8 3      1 9 8 4       1 9 8S         1 9 8 6        1 9 8 7        1 988
Amount  X   Amount  Z    Amount         AMount        Amount         Amount         AMount         AMount   I
Interest 8 commssions
Agricultural credit
Direct credit         23.S    23   36.8   26   50.0    25   81.7    22  126.7   18   184.6   16   226.5 )  12
TKK                    5.2     5    7.6     5    11.4    6    23.0    6    39.8    6    56.8    S         83.9 )  5   893.012 25              6
Sales cooperatives    21.6   21  39.6   28   46.0    23   53.4    14  128.6   19   225.1    20   354.2 ) 20
SEEs (mainly TZDK)    17.7    17   1.1      1    1.5      1    0.0      0    0.0     0      0.0    0       -
Arrears LI             0.0     0    0.0     0    0.0      0    9.2      2    30.2    4    AM.       6    82.4 11  S   479.1   13
Total                68.0    67  85.1    60   108.9   54   167.3    44  325.3   47    538.7   47   747.0   42  1,372.1   38
Commercial credit
Notes receivable       0.7     1   0.8      1    1.0    0       1.S    0      1.9    0      7.3     1
Loans                  7.5     7   12.3    9    20.7    10   41.3   11   37.6    6)  208.811  18   417.1 L2 23   670.111 19
Credit lines           8.1     8   14.8   10   18.2    9        8.0     2   61.;    9)
Arrears LI             0.3     0    0.5     0    0.7      0     1.8    0     7.8    1)                    51.6 1I 3   300.0    8
Total                 16.6   16  28.4   20   40.6    20   32.6    14  108.8   16   216.1    19   468.7   26   970.1   27
Bond portfolio           4.3     4   9.4      7   21.1    10   74.7   20   148.0   21   249.3    22    288.0   16   60S.1   17
Other income             S.0     5   9.2      6    22.9   11   70.3    19   94.3    14   118.8    10   271.6   1S   S88.3   16
Total                   93.9   93  132.1    93   193.5   96   364.9   96  676.4    98   1119.9   98  1.775.3   99 3,535.6  99
Profit from foreign
exchange transactions LI S.9    6    7.9    6       4.6    2    4.5       1    5.1      ,    10.6      1     7.4    0       3.8   0
Other incofe               1.6     2   2.2      2    3.1     2    8.9    2    8.8         1    17.0      1    18.9     1    46.9    1
Total                    101.4  100  142.2  100  201:2  100  378.8  100  690.3  100   1147.5  100  1,801.6  100 3,586.3  100
EXPENSES
Staff coopensation        14.1   14  19.2   14   24.7   12   33.9    9    46.3           7    67.0      6    109.8     6   240.1    7
Interest on deposits     28.4   28   ".S    56   144.1    72  293.5.   78  S50.3   80   822.7   72   966.8    54  1,658.0  46
Interest on CST
borrowings              23.7   23  21.7    1S   15.5       8    11.9     3    21.0     3      NA LI  -      NA LI   -      MALI  NA
Other expenses            13.2   13   9.9       7    13.8     7   32.9    9    60.3    9    230.9   20   475.2   26  1,213.5   34
------------------------------------------------------------------___-----_____--------------------------__________------------
Total                     ".4   78  130.3   92   198.1    98  372.2    98  677.9    98   1120.6  918  1,551.8   86  3.111.6  87
Provisions                   -    -       -     -       -    -       -    -         -    -      11.3    1   224.1    12   302.6   8
NET INCOME                  22.0    22   11.9    8      3.1    2    6.1      2    12.4     2     15.6     1    2S.7      2    172.1    5
LI Represents actual collection of interest.  Interest is not accrued on arrears of more than one year up to 1987. From 1986 no
accrual oh loans under administrative and legal follow-up.
2  Breakdown fot available.                                                                                                                 *
LI   et of expenses.                                                                                                                           *
LI  Included in Itto *Other expenses-.



-51-                                                ANNEX 1
Table 7
TURKEY                              Page  1 of 2
THIRD ASRICULTURKL CREDIT PROJECT
TCZIB: Coupaatve B9alance Sheets (1976-1988)
~~~...... ......... ,____.......... ....
(aeounts in 1985 TL billion)
1976    1977    1978    1979    1990
Amount   2    Auount          Asount   2    Asount   2    Aoount   2
..... . ....... .. . ....  . ....    ..... . ...... . .. .  .      ...... _. ..................... 
ASSETS
Cash and banks                        MA.4  1l    422.1   16    363.9  1I    325.6   16    259.9   15
Bcnd portfolio                         21.4    1      64.,    2      40.4    2      31.6    2      84.3     5
Airicultural credit
Direct :rodit                       32. 3   13    133.2   13    291.4   13    237.8   12    209.5   12
'YK                                '35.4    5    129.4    5    121.3    6         99.6    5    104.3    6
Sales tccperatzvle                   L.;   29    690.7   26    394.6   18    441.0   22    346.6   '0
3EEs ieainl  TZDK)                 247.8   10    185.l    !    194.4    9    360.1   IS    263.3   15
Arroas /i                          299.9   12    343.1   13    336.4   16    179.6    9    109.5    6
otal                             !S89.7   68   1678.6   64   1318.0   61   1319.1   67   1033.1   59
C3aercial credit
!otes receivanle                     42.     2      34.6    1      32.3    1      33.5    2      11.4    1
Lcans                                92.4    ?    1ll.!    4       94.1    4      62.2    3      53.3    :
Credit  tiles                       128.5    5    145.6           I 114.8    5    92.7    5    137.1    8
Arreirs                               9.2    0       9.9    0      59.2    3      17.8    1       6.7    0
T:tal                              :6;.!   it    301.2   11    299.5   13    206.2   10    209.5   !.
Equity ipvestnents                     19.4    1      14.8    I      11.:    1      11.8    1        7.6    3
Fixed assets 'b                        21.4    1      24.7    1      21.0    1      16.8    '      11.0    1
Otner islets                          141.5    5    121.0    5    !19.7    6        70.0    4    171.4   10
,otal                               2474.9  100   2626.5  100   2163.8  100   1990.1  100   17M          :*)0
.csi  eg.sits                        1205.'   49   121.    46   1056.0   49    903.6   50    722.7   41
'crei;n c;rrency depesits               0.0    0       0.0    0       0.0    0       0.0    0        Xo     )
3orrmuiags fros CBT                   M43.4   '0    836.8   32    577.3    7        46.2   !3    71?.9   40
Foreign torrominqs                      0.0    3       ).0    0       0.0    0       0.0    0       0.0    0
Other 1:abilities                     423.3   17    498.    19    472.2   22    297.0   15   292.3   16
.... .. ..... _._....._.__. .. _......................
otal                               ::!'.O   96   2554.9   97   2105.6   97   1926.8   97 I23.0   97
NET AgRrT
*iid-in capital                        45.9    2      37.0    1      24.3    1      32.6    2       17.1    1
Reserves                               15.3    1      12.3    0       9.7    0      15.8    1        9.1    0
Net income for ,ear                    36.7    1      22.2    1      24.3    1       4.9    0      27.6    2
Total                                  97.9    4      71.6    3      58.2    3      53.3    3      52.9    ;
Total Liabilities anj Net Worth        2474.9  100   26426.5  100   2163.9  100   1980.1  100   1775.8  100
-----------------as------- uu::2322a88z3,a us3*aa          ss3s,ss3sss3s,ua:
... ... -. -....... -------.
.a  Excludes arreas under one yea  on direct :redit and arrears on TKK and SEE credit.
;5 Net of deprciatian.
C:eB      5i!'J34



THNuD AC!UCUL1U3AL CUI ..ROJEfCT
L Canoarative Bal ance Sheets I1976-19881
(amounts in 1965 Tn billion)
1 9 8 1         1 9 a 2          19 8 3         1 9 8 4          1 9 8            1 9 8 6          1 9 8 7       1 9 85 
Amount    Z     Amount    X      AMunt    z      Amount           Amount   Z      AMount   Z       Amount   I   Amount      I
Cash abn  banks                  273.7   13     433.4    18      610.0    19     891.4    27      653.3    25     926.1    22      926.0    19   1.125.2    25
Bond portfolio                    84.6    4     118.1      5      74.5     2     378.8    11      398.9    12    596.1    14       585.4    12     680.6    15
Agricultural Credit
Direct credit                  251.0   12     347.8    1S      387.0    12     383.5    12      428.0    13 )                    919.5    18      MA      NA
TKK                            120.8    6     139.8     6      154.3     5     149.7     4      169.0     5 )  1346.7    32      277.7     6      NA       MA
Sales cooperatives             492.3   23     421.4    18      393.6    12     198.9     6      342.2    10 )                    397.5     8      NA      NA
SEEs (mainly T2DK)             303.3   14      85.6     2      137.5     4       0.0     0        0.0     0       0.0     0       17.5     0      NA      MA
Arrears Lt                      96.1    4      68.9     3      106.2     3      88.9      3      92.1     3      29.2      1      33.6     1       0        0
Total                         1263.6   59    1033.5    43    1178.5    37      821.0    25    1031.3    30    1375.9    33   1.645.9    33   1.547.9    34
Commercial Credit
Note-s receivable               12.2    1      15.0      1      12.1     0      10.5     0       13.0     0      20.1     0       19.8     0      NA      MA
Loans                           64.1    3      95.1     4      160.9     5     136.2     4      238.2     7 )  645.5    15   1.100.4    22        MA      KA
Credit lines                   214.8  10      163.2      7      54.7     2      75.0     2      186.7     5 )                      0.0     0      NA       MA
Arrears                         17.1    1      13.6      1     122.3     4     114.2      3     108.0     3      31.8      1      12.2     0       0       0
Total                          308.2  14      286.9    12      350.0   11      335.9    10      S45.9    16     S97.4    16   1,132.4    22      661.7    15
Equity investments                11.1    1      10.3     0       21.7     1      17.2      1      20.3     1      16.8     0       27.4     1      15.1      0
Fixed assets LI                   11.1    1      12.8      1      43.0     1      47.9     1       57.3     2      64.5     2       77.3     2      87.7     2
Other assets                     207.2   10     482.3    20      903.6    28     841.8   25       498.7    15     546.62   13      563.5   11      411.8     9
-------------------------------------------------------------------------_.--__-------------------------------------------------
Total                           2159.5  100    2377.3  100    3181.4   100    3333.9   100    3405.7   100    4223.4   100   4.957.9   100   4.530.0   100
Liabilities
Local deposits                  1011.9   47    1488.3    63    1727.1    54    1849.0    55    2193.7    64    2374.3    56   2.350.3    47   2,280.4    50
Foreign currency deposits          1.0    0      17.8      1       2.1     0     143.9     4      254.0     7     501.3    12      665.2    14     631.7    14
Borrowings from CBT              679.3   31     205.7      9     344.7    11      54.9      2     159.4     5     205        5     7S7.0    15     513.7    11
Foreign borrowings                26.8    1      23.9      1      25.7     1      23.7      1      55.9     2      77.2     2      19".1     4      96.5      2
Other liabilities                300.1   14     513.7    22      963.6    30    1167.3    38      647.4    19     947.9    22      848.0    17     805.0-   18
Total                           2019.2   94    2249.4    95    3063.3    96    3238.8    97    3310.4    97    4105.7    97   4.819.6    97   4,327.3    95
Not Worth
Paid-in capital                   52.2    2      41.7      2      66.8     2      46.5      1      33.6     1      51.4      1      59.0     1      66.4      2
Reserves                          11.5    1      53.1     2       44.7     1      40.2      1      49.3     1      54.3      1      64.3     2      76.5      2
Wet income for year               76.6    4      33..      1       6.6     0       8.5      0      12.4     0      12        0      15.0     0      59.8      1
Total                            140.3    6     127.9      S     118.1     4      95.2      3      95.3     3     117.7      3     138.3     3     202.7      5
lot.  Liabilities and Net Worth  2159.5  100    2377.3   100    3181.4   100    3333.9   100    3405.7   100    4223.4   100   4,957.9   100   4,830.0   100
Excludes arrears under one year on direct credit and arrears on TKK and SEE credit.
w  Not of depreciation.                                                                                                                                OOcrIt
1  Includes special provision, accrued interest, sundry debtors, and other assets.
4  Includes provisions, accrued interest, foreign commrcial crqdits. and other liabilities.                                                                  w
.  .                                              O_ H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.a.



-53-
AMN 1
Table 8
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TCZB: Chanses in Net Worth (1976-1988)
(1985 TL billion)'A
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Beginning balance        61.2    97.9    71.6    58.2    53.3    52.8
Not income               36.7    22.2    24.3      4.9    27.6    76.6
Capital adjustment4l      0.0   -48.5   -37.7    -9.8   -28.1    10.9
Ending balance           97.9    71.6    58.2    53.3    52.8   140.3
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986      1987    1988
Beginning balance       140.3   127.9   118.1    95.2    95.3   118.0    138.2
Net income               33.1     6.6     8.5    12.4    12.0    15.0       59.7
Capital adjustmentl   -45.5   -16.4   -31.4   -12.3    10.7        5.2      4.8
Ending balance          127.9   118.1    95.2    95.3   118.0   138.2    202.7
lA  Net adjustment resulting from devaluation of net monetary assets,
devaluation of fixed assets (revalued since 1982 but at 10 percentage
points less than the inflation rate), income tax, write-offs, and
increases in paid-in capital.
/2   Deflated at average annual inflation rate of 29.6S in 1986, 42.1% in 1987
and 68.31 in 1988.



-54-                                          AANNEX  1
Tab le 9
?URKEY                               Page  1 of  2
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CZB:  Conparative Inco"e Statements (1976-1988)
tasaonts in 1995 TL billon)
1976           1977           1979            1979           1980
Amount   7    Asount   I    Asount   I    Amount   I    Atount   7
INCCOME
interest I commissions
Agricultural credit
Direct credit                         30.6   15      34.6   16       30.7   15      31.6   17      42.8   20
TKK                                    9.2    5       9.9    5        9.1    4       7.9    4      11.0    5
Sales cooperatives                    70.4   35      69.1   32      67.9   14       46.4   2S      49.1   22
SEEs ~sainly TZDK)                    24.5   12      22.2   10       21.0   11      36.5   20      15.7    7
Arrears /a                             0.0    0       0.0    0        0.0    0       0.0    0       0.0    0
Total                                134.6   67    135.8   63    127.9   64    122.3   66    117.6   55
Commercial credit
Notes rece:vable                       3.1    2       2.5    1        3.2    2       2.0    1       2.4    1
Loans                                 12.2    6      14.8    7       16.2    8      13.9    7      20.0    9
Credit lines                           ;.2    5      12.3    6        9.7    5       9.9    5      42.4   20
Arrears ia                             0.0    0       0.0    0        0.0    0       0.0    0       '.0    0
ataO                                  24.5   12      29.6   14       29.1   15      25.7   14      65.7   31
Sond portfolio                           3.1    2        4.9    2       4.9    2       4.9    3       3.3    2
Other income                            24.5   12       24.7   !1      21.0   11      17.8   10       14.3    ?
Total                                  186.6   92    195.0   91    192.7   92    170.7   93    200.9   94
Profit from fore:gn eychange
transactions !b                          9.2    5       14.8    7      12.9    7       9.9    5        7.6    4
ItWer incone                               6.1    3        4.9    2       3.2            4.9    3        5.?
Total                                    201.9  100    214.8  100    199.9  100    194.5  100    214.2  1')
ELPENSE;
Staff cospensation                        45.9   2T       54.3   25      55.0   29      73.0   40       57.6   27
Interest on deposits                      55.1   27       51.8   24      43.7   22      54.3   29       .6.7   17
nterest on COT borrowings                 33.7 ?  1      42.0   20       37.2   19      31.6   1?      55.7   26
other expenses                            30.6   15       44.4   21      39.8   20      20.7   It       '.7 ?    7
Total                                      5 .2'  82    192.5   90    174.7   89    179.6   97    189.6   3?
NET INCOME                                   36.7   18      22.2   10      24.3   12        4.9    .      27.6    3
zuzm2=:2z2=2a:222*a8:2 2aa3s3sa232aui2uz3s
/a  Reprnsents actual :ollection of interest.  Interest is not accrued on arrears.
lb Not of expenses.
MAU9:E1 5/13i7



TURF
T9RpD AG4tCuTURAL CREDIT PRO3ECT
TCZ8: C        im arato Inem Statements E1979-1022
(asounts in 1985 n  billion)
19a1           1982            1283           1984            192S             1486"             19Sz              1988
Amount  U      Amount   X      Amount         A Mount         A mount         A mount    X       Amount    S       Amount      U
Interest & coxzissions
Agricultural credit
Direct credit              81.8   23     102.3   26      106.4   25     114.3   22      126.7   18      142.5      16      132.4 )  12
TKK                        18.1    5      21.1    5       24.3    6      32.2  .:- 6^    39.8    6       43.8      5        49.0)   5        310.04Q   25
Sales cooperatives         75.2   21     110.1   28       97.9   23      74.7   14      128.6   19      173.7     20       207.0 ) 20
SEEs (mainly TZDK)        61.6   17        3.1    1        3.2    1       0.0, .0         0.0    0        0        0         0.      0         0
Arrears LI                  0.0  .0        0.0    0        0.0    0      12.9    2       30.22   4       53.4      6        48.2     5       166.3    13
Total                     236.8   67     236.6   60      231.7   54     234.1   44      325.3   47      413.4     47       436.6    42       476.3    38
Ctmarcial credit
Notes receivable            2.4    1       2.2    1        2.1    0       2.1    0        1.9    0        5.6       1
Loans                     26.1    7       34.2    9       44.0   10      57.8   11       37.6    6)     161.1 42  18       243.8    23       232.6LI  19
Credit lines               28.2    8      41.1   10       38.7    9      11.2    2       61.5    9)
Arrears LI                  1.0    0       1.4    0        1.5    0       2.5    0        7.8    1)                         30.1     3       104.1      8
Total                      57.8   16      78.9  20        86.4  20       73.6  14       108.8  16       166.7      19      273.9    26       336.7    27
Bond portfolio             1S.0    4      26.1    7       44.9   10     104.5  20       148.0  21       192.3     22       168.3    16       210.0    17
Other income               17.4    5      25.6    6       48.7   11      9b.4   19       94.3   14        9.7      10      158.7    1S       204.2    16
Total                     327.0  93      367.2   93      411.7   96     510.7   96      676.4   98      864.1     98    1,037.6    99      1,227.2    "    "
Profit from foreign
exchange transactions 41  20.5    6       22.0    6        9.8    2       6.3    1        5.1    1        8.2       1        4.3     0         1.3      0
Other in:ome                  s.6    2       6.1  -          6.6  _ 2L     1                8Z8    I_Z1.  1               .iL  1       I1l   1  46.L     I
Total                       353.1  100     39S.3  100      428.1  100     529.4  100      690.3  100      885.4    100    1,053.0   100      1,244.8   100
Staff compensation           49.1   14      53.4   14       52.6   12      47.4    9       41 3    7       51.7      6        64.2     6        83.3      7
Interest on deposits         98.9   28     221.0   56      306.6   72     410.8   78      550.3   80      634.8     72       565.1    54       575.5    46
Interest on CIT
borrowings                82.5   23       60.3   15       33.0    8      16.?    3       21.0            N  LI4    -        KA LI    -         A L4    A
Other expenses               46.0   13      27.5    7       29.4    7      46.0    9       60.3    9      178.2      20      277.7   26        421.2    34
Total                       276.5   78     362.2   92      421.5   98     520.9   98      677.9   98      884.7     98       907.0    86     1,080.0    87
Provisions                     -     -        -      -        -     -        -     -         -     -        8.7       1      131.0    12       10.-1      8
EtT INCOPt                     76.6   22      33.1    8        6.6    2       8.5    2       12.4    2       12.0       1       15.0     2        59.7      5
41  Represents actual collection of interest.  Interest is not accrued on arrears.
'  Breakdown not available.
net of expenses.
Included in item *Other expenses".                                                                                                                  ' S..
0o
Na



TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TCZB - Loan Collection Performance 1980-86
Collection Ratios
1980      1981      1982       1983      1984       1985 /1   1986 /2
Direct Loans to Farmers
(a) Normal credits                  82.0      81.0       74.9      76.7       77.3      74.6       78.1
(b) Controlled credits              86.0      81.0       71.8      70.2       69.1      63.7      68.4
Of above:
- Supervised credit
short-term                  NA        87.4       82.5      77.9      75.6       72.6      75.5
- Supervised investment
credit                      NA        81.3       71.4      70.1      68.4       61.9      65.5
(c) Encouragement and
Development Credits           59.b      66.0       64.3      64.4       64.2      74.8      73.6
-. a. ,
Loans to Credit Cooperatives       100.0      100.0     100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0
Loans to Sales Cooperatives /3      80.0      83.0       85.2      71.7       81.5      62.8       62.5
Loans to Supply Agency             100.0      100.0     100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0
L1 Widespread drought in 1985 had negative effect on collection.
/2 Due to introduction of new appraisal and supervision procedures recovery rates are
expected to improve during project implementation.
/3  Losses encountered through lending to sales cooperatives are covered by Government
guarantees.
Source:  TCZB, Accounting Department



THIRD AULTURAL CREOIT PROJECT
Tr7B - Key Finapnial indicators, 19B0-1988
1980      i981                 Jilfil 13il                    lilA      1162        iI
Net Income/Net Worth (Z)                     52.0      55.0       25.9       5.7       9.0       13.0      10.2       10.8       29.5
Net Worth (TL billion)                       11.1      40.3      46.0       55.5      68.0       95.3     152.5      236.6      583.9
get Worth in Real Teoms (1985 TL)            52.8     140.2      127.9     118.2      95.2       95.3     117.7      138.3      202.7
'Total Assets (TL billion)                  373.0     620.2     855.1   1, 495.2   2,382.1   3,405.7   5,473.5   8,482.9   13,050.8
Average Total Assets (TL billion)           286.9     496.6      737.7   1,175.2   1.938.7   2,893.9   4,439.6   6,978.2   10,766.9
Total Assets in Real Terpt (1985 TL)    1,77S.5   2,158.3   2,377.5   3,184.1   3,335.1   3,405.7   4,223.4   4,957.9    4,530.0
Net Worth/Total Assets (Mj                    3.0       6.5        3.5       3.7       2.9        2.8       2.8        2.8        4.5
Net Worth/Average Total Assets (%)            3.9       8.1        6.2       4.7       3.5        3.3       3.4        3.4        5.4
Staff Expenses/Total Income (X)              27.0      13.0       13.0      12.0       9.0        7.0       5.8        6.1        6.7
Staff Expenses/ATA" (%)                       4.2       2.8        2.6       2.1        1.7       1.6       1.5        1.6        2.2
Financial Expenses/ATA (M)                    6.7      10.5      13.7       13.6      15.7       19.7      18.5       13.9       15.4
Total Expenses/ATA                           13.7      16.0       17.7      16.9       19.2      23.4      25.5       22.2       28.9              g
Total Income/ATA (O                          15.7      20.4       19.3      17.1      19.S       23.9      25.9       26.8       33.3
Net Income/ATA                                2.0       4.4        1.6       0.3       0.3        0.4       0.4        0.4        1.6
Interest Earned/Interest Paid (Ratio)         2.0       1.8        1.3       1.2        1.2       1.2       1.2        1.6        1.8
Arrears/Net Loans Outstanding (X)            10.3       7.8        6.7      17.6      21.3       14.5       3.0        5.2        0 Li
Return on Gross Assets (Z)                    1.5       3.5        1.4       0.2       0.3        0.4       0.3        0.3        1.3
Short-Term Liquidity 2                        0.5       0.3        0.6       0.6       0.5        1.0       N.A.       N.A.      N.A.
Current Ratio  '                              0.7       0.8        0.8       0.8       0.9        0.8       0.9        0.9       N.A.
Li  ATA: Average Total Assets.
a&  Cash and balances with other banks divided by demand liabilities.
LI  Based on an estimate of current assets and liabilities expected to be realized or liquidated in
the next 12 months.
Li  Arrears of TL 542 billion have been fully provided for and excluded from the assets.
Source: TCZB
$4



-58-
ANNEX 2
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TKK Financial Data
Table 1 - Loans Outstanding to Members of Agricultural Credit
Cooperatives, 1980-86
Table 2 - Loan Collection of Agricultural Credit Cooperatives, 1980-85
Table 3 - Combined Balance Sheets of Agricultural Credit Cooperatives,
1980-86
Table 4 - Combined Income and Expenditure Statements of Agricultural
Credit Cooperatives, 1983-86
Table 5 - Key Financial Ratios of Agricultural Credit Cooperatives,
1980-86



-59-                        ANNEX 2
Table 1
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loans Outstanding to Members of Agricultural
Credit Cooperatives, 1980-86
Number of      Loans Outstanding                    Average Loan
Borrowing         at End of Year              Outstanding per Member
Year     Members      Current           1985          Current           1985
('000)     TL Million       TL Million    TL Thousand       TL Thousand
1980      1,077       29,386          139,877             27              130
1981      1,071       44,473          154,766             42              144
1982      1,002       69,409          192,957             69              193
1983      1,135      102,287          217,871             90              192.
1984      1,054      165,619          231,867            157              220
1985      1,101      256,206          256,206            233              233
1986      1,141      377,691          291,428            331              255
Increase over 1980 position (2)
5.9      1,185.3            108.4       1,125.9              96.2
Source: TCZB, Cooperative Department



-60-
ANNEX 2
Table 2
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(TL million)
A. Loan Collection Performance of Agricultural Credit Cooperatives
1980-85 /1
Loans Due for Payment     Loans Collected      Loan Collection
Year        during the Year        during the Year      __ 2
1980            19,245                  15,953              82.9
1981            36,127                  27,603              76.4
1982            62,682                  45,396              72.4
1983            96,110                  68,960              71.7
1984           151,800                 110,034              72.5
1985 /2        247,998                 161,085              64.9
1986           348,022                 215,449              61.9
B.  Loans Collected during 1984 and 1985 in Percentage Terms
by Regional Union Area
Sr. No.    Region     Loan Collection (2)  Sr. No.    Region       Loan Collection (1)
1984      1985 /2                           1984       1985
1     Tekirdag        79.7      77.5       9       Kayseri         67.9      52.7
2     Balikesir       79.4      68.0      10       Sivas           75.1      67.0
3     Sakarya         72.3      62.5      11       Samsun          74.1      61.6
4      Izmir          80.9      78.1      12       Trabzon         73.3      61.8
5     Kutahya         79.6      72.5      13       Erzurum         63.9      57.1
6     Antalya         76.0      71.8      14       Malatya         72.2      54.7
7     Konya           62.3      50.0      15       Gaziantep       52.4      44.9
8     Ankara          63.6      56.4      16       Hersin          58.7      48.3
/1 Excludes rescheduled debts. Due to new appraisal and supervision procedures
collection rates are expected to improve during project implementation.
/2 Widespread drought in 1985 had negative effect on collection.
Source: TIK Central Union.



TURKE
Combined Balance Sheets of Aaricultural Credit Cooneratives. l980-"6I
As at oeemb.r 3S
19*0               10*1                192n                1981                I9                  19*1                1985
(Tn million) (I)   (TL million)  (O)  (TL million)  (Z)  (TI m llon)  (X)  (T. millon)  (X)  (TI. million)  (S)  (TL million)    )
-Cash  nd bank balances          162     -           266      -          267      -          610      1          901      1          449      -        1.587      -
Loans to MOMbOr8z           25,689    73        42,596     80       69,288     86      102,207     87      165,502     87     2S6,182      91     377,690      89
Short-term receivables       3,021      9        3.2765      7       5,493      7        7,741      6       11.697      6        1,575      1        S,10      1
Stocks on hand               5.876    17         6,311      12       5.174      6        5.656      5       10,729      6       11,725      4       17.886      4
Long-tem receivables             -      -            -       -           -      -            -      -            -      -        4,346      1        6.656      2
Rescheduled debts                180      -          143       -         121       -          30       -         117      -           25      -            -      -
Fixed assets (net)             211      1          319       1         432      1          590      1          747      -        1,777      1       2,384       2
- Other assets                        -_               -                -         -            -                   -     _            02    --      _ 4,47S    -
TOTAL                    35,139   100        S3,400    100       80,77S    100      116,844    100      189.693    100     280,381    100      415.785    100
1985 TL                 167,262             18S,832            224,55S             248,878             265,570             280,381             320,820
UIABILMS
- Short-term borrowings
from TCZB                   21.785    62        34.641     65       50.253     62       72,450     62      106,753     57      145,024     52     235.257      55
- Short-term  payables         6.600    19         8,961     17       14,492     16      17,2S6      15      34,217      18      3S,156      12      20.791       5
- Short-term dues to
unions                         -      -            -      -          310      -            -      -          481      -          239      -            -      -
- Other liabilities'/              -      -            9       -         101      -            -      -            -      -            3            -             -
Other borrowings
from TCZB                     9.   4_                                                                                        423B7 6 _ 5  -  _  . 4  _  23.EZI  _  33.I22  a
TOTAL                    28,482    81        43,679     82       65,201     80      89.706       n      141.485     7S     201.998      72     289,320      68
NET WORTH                      6.657    19         9.721      1S      15,574      20      27.138      23      48,208     25       78,383     28      126,465
Represented by:
Paid-in capital           2,628     7         4,443      8        7,366      9        9.832      8       16.374      9       19.419      7       28,772      7
Reserve fund                930     3         1,342      3        1.774      2        2,686      2        4.S62      2        4.996      2        S,074      1
Special fund              3,192     9         3.866       7       5,107      7        7,737      7       10,575      6       12,760      5       24.950      6
Other funds                   -      -            -       -           -      -        2,514      2        4,280      2        6,769      2       -1.026      2
Retained profits            (9 22   _            70      -        1.12Z     .Z        4,A69 4I            12.417     6      34.439      12      6a.69s    li
TOTAL                     6,657    19         9,721      18      15,574     20       27.138     23       4^,,208    2S       78,383     28      126,465     32
1985 TIL                 31.6B7              33,829              43,296              57,804             67.491              78,383              103.408
*   iSnbined position of cooperatives which submitted annual balance sheets.
g reakup of operational and investment credits not readily available.
,    Represents difference between assets and liabilities which could not be reconciled.
.e   TKK Central Union



TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Combined Income and Expenditure Statements of
Atricultural Credit Cooperatives. 1983-86'
For the !e.r Ending
1983    (X)        1984      (2)      1985      (X)     1986      (X)
(TL million)       (TL Million)       (TL million)      (TL million)
Income
Interest received       18,915     87       38,695      90     69,119     94   101,837       94
Commission on sales      1,682       8       39374       8      3,595      5      5,567       5
Other income             1,171       5         652       2        468      1        983       1
LO8s                         -      -            -       -          -      -        170       0
Total                   21,768    100       42,721     100     73,182    100   108,557      100
Other Expenditures
Selling expenses             -      -          353       1         99      -        572       1
Salaries and other
staff benefits         3,369     16        3,343       8      6,731      9      7,622       7
Interest paid          ;.1,465     53       23,230      54     40,122     55    59,659       55
Other expenses          22,565      12       3,377       8      3,585      5      6.705       6
Total                   17.399      81      30.303      71     50,537     69    74SSS8       69
Net Profit                   4,369      19      12,418      29     22,645      31    33,999      31
. Data prior to 1983 are not available.
Source:  TMK Central Union



-63-AW                                    2
ANINEX 2
Table 5
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Key Financial Ratios of Asricultural Credit Cooperatives
(1980-86)
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Net return on income/l         (2)       NA     NA      NA     20      29     31      31
Return on capital
employed-                   ()          _      _       _     16      26     29     25
Staff costs/Total income       (2)        -      -       -     15      18      9       7
Assets turnover3               (2)        -      -       -     18      23     26      26
Current ratioz4                (times)    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.3    1.3    1.3   NA
Short-term liquidity
ratio4l                     (times)    1.0    1.1    1.2    1.2    1.3    1.3   NA
Equity/Total assetsX          (X)        10     11      13     14      19     21     24
Net worth/Total assets         (X)       19     18      20     23      25     28     32
Interest earned/interest
paid                        (X)         -      -       -    165    167    172    171
NA * Not available
41   Based on net profit and gross income.
4-   Based on net profits and net worth.
`    Based on gross income and total assets.
4    Based on current assets and current liabilities (approximate figures).
'5   Based on quick current assets and short-term current liabilities
(approximate figures).
8    Based on paid up capital plus reserves plus retained profits as compared
to total assets.



-64-
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 6
TURKEY
TRIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Draft TCZB Policy Statement
This policy statement is a summary of the main principles which guide
the operations of TCZB.
I. Statement of General Policies
1.       The main function of TCZB is to operate as a development bank for the
agriculture sector and, to that end, generate adequate resources to provide
financial support for the production, processing, and marketing of
agricultural products including crops, livestock, fisheries and forestry
products.
2.       To accomplish its objectives effectively, TCZB's policy is to meet
operating and investment requirements of agricultural entrepreneurs and
enterprises, agriculture-oriented and agro-industrial ventures, and related
activities in order to increase their output and improve their productivity.
3.       Established primarily to-provide financial support to the agriculture
sector, TCZB each year allocates not less than 80% of its resources for
Jending for agricultural and related activities. It also lends for commercial
activitieb and undertakes other types of banking operations.  The range of
activities handled by TCZB, therefore, includes mobilization of financial
resources through acceptance of official and public deposits and raising
internal or external borrowings; provision of usual banking services to
clients; undertaking commercial and trade financing; investments in the equity
of other enterprises; investment in bonds issued by the Government and other
public bodies; handling foreign exchange business; and engaging in agency
functions related to banking including undertaking activities for the
Government Treasury and the Central Bank of Turkey.
4.       Within the above framework, the policies of TCZB are formulated in
such a way as to promote savings mobilization and to contribute effectively to
the growth of the agricultural sector, taking into account the objectives and
priorities enunciated in the Government's annual program and development plans.
5.       In pursuance of these objectives, TCZB strives to develop and
maintain an adequate management team and staff, including technical staff
capable of efficiently appraising projects and loan proposals, assisting
borrowers in the formulation of their projects or farm production and
development plans, and supervising their execution.



-65-
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
6.       It is the endeavor of TCZB to provide to the farming community
adequate amounts of credit in a timely manner for viable activities and to lay
special emphasis on meeting the credit needs of small- and medium-scale
farmers, either directly or through their cooperatives. TCZB seeks to improve
and expand its lending operations to levels commensurate with sound financial
practices, credit requirements in the agriculture sector, and financial
resources and staff resources available to the bank.
II. Lending Policies
7.       TCZB extends short-, medium- and long-term loans.  Short-term loans
are made generally for periods not exceeding one year, although in exceptional
cases the period may extend by one more year, to enable the borrower to meet
his seasonal production and marketing expenses. Medium-term loans are
approved for a period of two to five years to finance a broad spectrum of
agricultural investments including the establishment of enterprises allied to
agriculture. Long-term loans are approved for schemes involving investments
with long repayment periods which exceed the period prescribed for medium-term
loans. Short-term loans are termed "operational credits" and medium- and
long-term loans "investment credits". The latter may also be used for the
portion of working capital that is permanently tied up in the production
process.
8.       To be eligible for a TCZB loan, the borrower should not be a
defaulter in the repayment of previous TCZB credit and should be creditworthy.
9.       TCZB's emphasis is on viability of the proposed operation or
investment and on the management capability and reliability of the borrower.
Furthermore, it extends loans against appropriate forms of security. Its
policy, in this respect, is flexible. Aside from mortgage of land and/or
buildings, hypothecation of work animals and livestock, agricultural
equipment, tools and machinery, unharvested and harvested crops, and
unprocessed and processed produce, as well as personal guarantees or other
acceptable guarantees, are accepted as security.
10.      TCZB's lending is based on production and investment costs and
revenues, and loan decisions are made after a thorough financial and technical
analysis. The scope of such appraisal is suited to the purpose and size of
loan. Short-term agricultural loans are processed on the basis of typical
crop budgets developed taking regional variations in agro-climatic and farming
conditions into account and revised and updated semi-annually. Similarly,
smaller investment credits are appraised using typical farm and livestock
models, which are updated on an annual basis. Larger loans are subject to
individual investigation and appraisal on the basis of farm plans prepared for
the applicant.
11.      The appraisal of agro-industrial and other agri-related projects
includes an assessment of the viability of the project and the firm. The



-66-
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 6
project is reviewed in terms of its technical (e.g. processing technology),
commercial (raw material supply and output marketing), organizational,
managerial, and financial (including the financial rate of return) viability.
In assessing the firm, particular attention is given to its management and its
financial structure/performance.
12.      It is the TCZB's policy to ensure proper use of its credit.  To the
extent feasible, credit is disbursed by direct payment on behalf of the
borrower to suppliers of goods and services. Further, for proposals involving
phased development, credit is made available in suitable installments and
commitments relating to later phases are disbursed after ascertaining that
prior disbursements have been effectively utilized for the specific purposes
agreed upon. Loans are also monitored until their repayment through periodic
supervision visits by technical staff. Such visits are relatively frequent
for investment credits and complex projects.
13.      TCZB fixes the repayment period for Jnvestment credits in accordance
with the projected cash flow and requirements of each project, and allows,
wherever necessary, an appropriate grace period before loan repayments
commence. Due dates for the repayment of short-term loans are fixed to
correspond with produce marketing season in order to ensure that the borrower
has adequate cash liquidity to repay the loan.
14.      TCZB requires that the principal amount and accrued interest on all
loans should be repaid within the due date. Otherwise, the loan is considered
as "overdue" and suitable administrative action is initiated to collect the
overdue amount. If default in repayment subsists for a period specified by
law or in a situation warranting earlier action, legal proceedings are
initiated against the borrower to collect the principal amount due, accrued
interest thereon, and the cost of legal proceedings incurred by the bank.
However, in exceptional circumstances, TCZB allows rescheduling of the
repayment period in accordance with the policy approved by the Board of
Directors which sets forth principles for assessment of damage to borrower's
production, the period of rescheduling, and the procedures to be followed for
rescheduling loan repayment.
15.      TCZB undertakes monitoring and evaluation of its loans in order to
identify constraints and improve implementation of loan programs, and to
assess the impact of loan operations on the production and incomes of
borrowers.
III. Financing of Cooperatives
16.      TCZB extends financial support to those agricultural credit
cooperatives and agricultural sales cooperatives and their unions, which in
the opinion of the bank, are well-managed and financially viable. A
conclusion that a cooperative is creditworthy is made after the bank, through



-67-
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
appraisal by its staff, is satisfied that the management is capable, that
on-lending and collection of loans or the marketing of produce is efficient,
that adequate records are being kept, that credit previously extended has been
properly managed and repaid in time, and that there is regular external audit
by qualified staff consistent with the requirements of law applicable to
cooperatives.
17.      In the extension of credit to agricultural credit cooperatives, TCZB
also ensures that their on-lending to members is in accordance with loan
policies and procedures satisfactory to the bank.
18.      TCZB's credit to agricultural sales cooperatives and their unions in
order to finance their support purchases of agricultural produce at prices
determined by the Government is made available against the latter's guarantee
to make good the shortfalls in repayment on expiry of the due date.
19.      TCZB requires periodic reports from borrowing cooperatives regarding
the utilization of its credit and their operations, and also supervises the
use of its funds.
IV. Technical Capacity
20.      Consistent with its role as the development bank for the agriculture
sector, TCZB maintains a team of technical staff of appropriate expertise and
strength, primarily to assist in project preparation and appraisal of loan
requests received by the bank. The technical staff members undertake the
preparation and updating of typical crop budgets and farm models, as well as
formulate individual farm plans, whenever they are needed. Further, they
appraise proposals from agro-industrial ventures received by the bank for
financing.
21.      Supervising loan operations through periodic field visits is also the
responsibility of the technical staff. A major element of such visits is to
identify implementational problems and render assistance to the entrepreneurs
in solving such problems.
22.      Investigating requests for rescheduling of loans is an integral part
of the function of TCZB's technical staff. Besides, TCZB requires its
technical staff to undertake the monitoring and evaluation of production and
investment activities financed.
23.      TCZB may also use its technical staff for preparation of feasibility
reports on complex projects and may extend special technical assistance for
project implementation when the nature of and the risks involved in a project
approved for financing require such assistance.



-68-
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 6
24.      The role of TCZB's technical staff is complementary to that of
MAFRA's extension staff. MAFRA provides technical advice to farmers, and TCZB
focuses on assessing the viability of activities proposed for financing and
supervising the implementation of those activities. Therefore, TCZB maintains
close liaison with MAFRA to ensure that its borrowers benefit from the
available technology and realize the production and income necessary to repay
their loans.
V. Equity Investments
25.      While it is not TCZB's principal policy to make equity investments in
enterprises, in certain circumstances such investments may be seriously
considered if it is deemed that they are intended to promote the establishment
of sound enterprises within the sector for which it has the mandate to be the
principal financing agency and to provide its support to attract savings of
the public for investment in such enterprises in the form of equity.
26.      To realize the above objective, if such investments are ever to be
made, they will be confined to agricultural, agro-industrial enterprises.
Further, preference will be given to enterprises that have obtained or are
eligible for an incentive license from the State Planning Organization as
being projects accorded priority by the Government, as well as investments in
the financial sector in areas that are seen as complementary to the financial
objectives of TCZB as in the case of insurance which can be considered as
being a part of financial services.
27.      A proposal for TCZB participation is approved after a thorough
appraisal, to ensure that it is a financially viable proposition, and that the
enterprise has the prospect of being in a position to pay a reasonable
dividend to its shareholders.
28.      Consistent with its promotional role, TCZB's participation in a
single enterprise will be limited to a maximum of 501 of the paid-in capital
of that enterprise. Further, the total value of TCZB's equity investments
plus the value of TCZB's fixed assets will not, at any time, exceed the
aggregate sum of the bank's unimpaired paid-in capital and reserves.
VI. Bond Investments
29.      TCZB invests in bonds to comply with the legal requirements relating
to the maintenance of a minimum reserve for its deposit obligations and to
find an outlet for its surplus funds which conforms to the principles of
safety and liquidity and also provides a reasonable return. TCZB's
investments in bonds will be, therefore, normally confined to State and



-69-
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 6
Treasury bonds. TCZB recognizes that its primary responsibility is to provide
support to the agriculture sector and, therefore, endeavors to utilize its
financial resources for lending and to keep its investments in bonds to the
minimum required for sound financial management.
VII. Research
30.      In line with Government's development plans and priorities, TCZB
carries out studies and surveys to collect and compile data relevant to the
formulation of the bank's sectoral and subsectoral programs and policies. The
objective is to help define the strategies to be pursued by TCZB with the aim
of ensuring a rapid and sound development of the sectors and to identify the
investment opportunities within the framework of these strategies.
31.      The scope of research undertaken also covers studies to analyze
existing domestic production trends in various agricultural subsectors, the
development prospects, domestic consumption trends, and competitiveness and
sale prospects in the foreign markets.
VIII. Financial Policies
32.      Under its charters TCZB carries out its activities in accordance with
an annual operations program, which encompasses all activities of the bank.
TCZB also utilizes a rolling five-year financial plan, updated annually, to
provide a medium-term framework for the annual plan.
33.      TCZB each year makes adequate provision against all potential losses
and endeavors to maintain reserves at a level consistent with sound financial
practices. It also seeks to maintain an adequate debt/equity ratio.
34.      TCZB seeks to maintain a satisfactory relationship between the
maturities of its obligations and those of the loans it provides.
35.      TCZB operates at a cost consistent with efficient agricultural
development banking business by maintaining its expenses of administration and
operations at an appropriate level in relation to its activitives. It levies
charges for its financial and other services sufficient to cover expenses and
aims to make reasonable provisions for bad debts, maintain adequate reserves
as circumscribed by the relevant regulations, and ensure a reasonable return
on its equity.
36.      TCZB reviews at least once per year its assets and liabilities, their
composition and the "prices" pertaining thereto and presents, if and when
necessary or appropriate, its findings to relevant authorities.



-70-                        ANNEX 4
Page I of 8
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TCZB Institutional Development Program
Action Matrix
Action                               Anticipated Timing, Unless
Otherwise Indicated
Policy Statement
Adoption by Board of Directors                 Adopted December 1986
Organizational Structure
Adoption of new organizational structure       Adopted November 1988
for General Directorate by Board of
Directors
Begin to issue operating procedures for        Within one month of approval of
new organizational structure and initiate      structure by Board of Directors
personnel transfers
Decentralization
Delegate loan review authority to main          Implemented April 1987
branches in at least the 10 provinces
covered by the on-farm development com-
ponent of the Second Agricultural Credit
Project
Delegate loan review authority to main         September 1989
branches in at least the additional 35
provinces included in Third Agricultural
Credit Project
Delegate loan review authority to main         March 1990
branches in remaining provinces
Raise loan approval authority of large          Implemented February 1987.
provincial branches to current legal
maximum of TL 25 million
Recommend that Turkish Bankers' Association   Letter sent December 1986
propose to Governmernt the issuance of a       to Treasury.
decree providing for the annual adjustment
of legal loan approval limits to compensate
for inflation



-71-                            ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 8
Action                                          Timing
Review branch loan approval limits and          Annually in January
adjust them to compensate for inflation
and to accommodate the growing capability
of branches, within legal limits esta-
blished by Government
Lending Policies and Procedures
Issue revised version of detailed agri-         Guidelines are ready for
cultural credit guidelines incorporating        Board approval if project
more modern security requirements               goes forward.
Introduce typical crop budgets adapted          Introduced April 1987
to regional conditions for appraisal of
short-term production loans in at
least the 10 provinces covered by the
on-farm development component of the
Second Agricultural Credit Project
Introduce typical crop budgets in at least      September 1989
the additional 35 provinces included in
the Third Agricultural Credit Project
Introduce typical crop budgets in               June lQ90
remaining provinces
Introduce typical investment models for         Introduced September 1987 for
the appraisal of medium- and long-term          loans beyond TL 10 million
investment loans up to TL 20 million            in current TL.
(1986 TL) in at least the 10 provinces
covered by the on-farm development compo-
nent of the Second Agricultural Credit
Project
Introduce typical investment models in at       September 1989
least the additional 35 provinces included
in the Third Agricultural Credit Project
Introduce typical investment models in          June 1990
remaining provinces
Strengthen the technical appraisal and           Implemented December 1987
supervision of short-term production
loans by maintaining a staff of agricul-
tural technicians sufficient to permit
the review of a 10 percent sample of
short-term loan applications and the
supervision of the sample through periodic
field visits (use figures iii Table 1 as
basis for projections in 1989-1991)



-72-                           ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 8
Action                                          Timing
Strengthen the appraisal and supervision      In accordance with projections
of medium- and long-term investment loans    derived from schedule in Table 2
in the 45 provinces of the Third
Agricultural Credit Project by developing
and maintaining university level staff
adequate to permit the review of each medium-
and long-term loan application and the
supervision of each loan through periodic
field visits
Strengthen the appraisal and supervision      1989-1991
of medium- and long-term investment loans,
as above, in remaining provinces
Establish a unit in the Project Analysis      Established January 1987
Department for implementing the monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) system
Recruit consultant to assist in designing    Recruited April 1987
and implementing the M&E methodology
Begin establishment of M&E teams in           Initial teams by September 1989
Regional Directorates. Complete M&E
structure on basis of consultant's
recommendations adopted by TCZB
Management Information System
Introduce new management information          December 1989
system, using recommendations of systems
and procedures study.
Financial Management
Review the five-year financial plan to        A.nnually in April
incorporate adjustments necessary in light
of actual operational results during the
previous year and to extend the forecasts
to cover one more year
Appoint task force to undertake analysis      September 1989
of non-performing agricultural loans and
loan arrears
Task force to prepare TOR for analysis        September 1989
which are acceptable to the Bank
Task force to carry out analysis (with        October-December 1989
assistance of consultants if required)



-73-                            ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 8
Action                                          Timing
Initiate implementation of task force          June 1990
recommendations adopted by TCZB
Appoint task force to undertae analysis        September 1989
of equity investment portfolio
Task force to carry out analysis of             October-December 1989
agroindustrial investments with TOR
acceptable to the Bank
Initiate implementation of task force          June 1990
recommendations on agro-industrial
investments adopted by TCZB.
Task force carry out analysis of remaining    September 1990
investments
Initiate implementation of task force          December 1990
recommendations on remaining investments
adopted by TCZB
Budgeting
Prepare TOR and recruitment documents for      September 1989
consultants to assist in designing and
implementing program budgeting system as
a complement to cost accounting
Prepare short list of consultants              October 1989
Issue invitation for proposals from            October 1989
consultants on short list
Evaluate consultant proposals                  January 1990
Negotiate and sign contract with               March 1990
consultants
Consultants begin work                          June 1990
Complete program budgeting system               October 1990
Accounting and Auditina
Modernize the accounting system, using          1989-1991
recommendations from the accounting study.



-74-                            ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 8
Action                                          Timins
Recruit consultants to assist in esta-        Same schedule as for program
blishing full cost accounting system.         budgeting
(May be same consultants as for program
budgeting)
Complete cost accounting system               June 1991
Extend internal auditing by Board of          1989
Inspectors to reach frequency of branch
auditing of once a year for large and
medium branches and once every two years
for small branches.
Personnel Development
Appoint task force to review the manpower    January 1990
planning, performance evaluation, and
staff compensation systems
Preparation by the task force of TOR          January 1990
acceptable to the Bank for the review.
Included will be instructions to prepare
recommendations on strengthening the
above systems
Compieti.on of the task force report          April. 1990
Implementation of task force recommenda-      June 1990
tions approved by Board of Directors
Introduce training courses in farm            January 1990
production analysis, farm investment
analysis, and M&E
Establish arrangements with MAFRA for         December 1989
training technical staff in new agricul-
tural technology developments
Technical staff to begin participation        December 1989
in MAFRA training workshops
Prepare fellowship programs, for external    March 1990
training of trainers, particularly in
specialized areas such as needs assessment
using skills gap analysis, and for advanced
external training of top graduates of
internal courses
Implement fellowship programs                 1990-91



-75-                     ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 8
Attachment
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Staff Requirements for ST and MLT Loan Operations
1.       It has been agreed that TCZB would achieve a ratio of one
agricultural technician for every 3,500 ST production loans in each project
province by the end of 1987 and would endeavor to maintain that ratio during
the project period. For medium- and long-term loans, TCZB would endeavor to
achieve a ratio of one university level staff (consisting of agricultural,
civil, mechanical, electrical, etc. engineers, financial analysts, economists
and loan officers) for every 300 loans in each project province by the end of
1987 and one for every 200 loans by the end of 1988. The latter ratio would
be maintained thereafter during the project period.
2.       Estimates of requirements of agricultural technicians and t.  ersity
level staff by province are contained in Tables 1 and 2.
3.       As of December 31, 1985, the number of outstanding agricultural loans
issued directly to farmers in all 67 provinces was 1,463,542. The 44
provinces initially envisaged as project provinces accounted for 1,118,142
loans. Of the a#ricultural loans issued by TCZB annually, 92.52 comprise
short-term loans'and 7.5% medium- and long-term loans.  Based on the past
trend, the rate df increase is projected at 3b per year.
4.       As shown in Table 1, the outstanding short-term loans in the 44
initial project provinces are projected to increase to 1,125,815 by end-1987,
requiring a total of 320 agricultural technicians. There are already 309
agricultural technicians in these provinces. Some provinces have an excess of
agricultural technicians while in others, their numbers will need to be
increased. For TCZB as a whole, there are about sevel excess agricultural
technicians. Thus, by allocating a few agricultural technicians from
non-project provinces to project provinces and with some reallocation within
the project provinces, TCZB would be in a position to satisfy the specified
norm by the end of 1987. However, it is recognized that maintenance of the
norm thereafter will depend on the Government allowing TCZB to recruit
additional agricultural technicians.
5.       The number of medium- and long-term  loans in the 44 initial project
provincea is projected to increase to 94,384 by end-1988 (Table 2). The
university level staff requirements for the 44 project provinces are estimated
at 306 by end-1987 and at 471 by end-1988. The number of the existing
university-level staff by province is not available. TCZB will, therefore,
undertake a review in order to ensure that each project province h8s the
required strength of university-level staff, and it will approach the
Government for the latter's clearance if the review indicates that recruitment
of some additlonal university-level staff will be necessary to conform to the
specified norms.



-76-                                      AtNiEUA
Page 7 of 8
Table 1
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Requirements of Agricultural Technicians by Province
Existing No.     Required
of            No. of         Shortfall (-)
No. of        Projected No.    Agricultural    Agricultural    or Surplus (+)
Outstanding      Outstanding      Technicians      Technicians        in No. of
Project          ST Loans as of   ST Loans as of        in the         as of          Agricultural
Provincea        Dec. 31. 1985    Dec. 31. 19A7        Province, , QFG  31 .1987    .hnItcians.
1.   Adana              48,577            53,081           10                15               -S
2.   Afyon              44,191            48.289           14                14
3.   Agri                18,284           19,979            1                 6               -S
4.   Amasya              10,148           11,089            7                 3               t4
S.   Ankara              57,833           59,917           21                17               +4
6.   Antalya            28,322            30,948           1S                 9               +6
7.   Balikesir           51,267           56,021           17                16               +1
8.   8ingol              4,730             5,169            2                 2                -
9.   8itlis              13,614           14,876            -                 4               -4
10.  Burdur             17,655            19,292            7                 S               +2
11.  Bursa              23,005            25,138           11                 7               +4
12.  Canakkale          21,048            23,000           10                 6              +4
13.  Cankiri            19,927            21,775            2                 6               -4
14.  Corum              12,729            13,909            6                 4              +2
IS.  Denizli            41,086            44,896           1S                13               +2
16.  Diyarbakir         14,864            16,242            1                 S               -4
17.  Edirne             12,227            13,361            8                 4              +4
18.  Erzincan            7,016             7,667            S                 2               +3
19.  Erzurum            27,585            30,143            t                 9               -2
20.  Eskisehir          22,702            24,807            6                 7               -1
21.  Gumushane            S.989            6,544            1                 2               -1
22.  Hakkari             2,205             2,409            -                 1               -1
23.  Isparta            21,452            23,441            9                 7               +2
24.  Icel (Hersin)       16,410           17,932           11                 S               +6
25.  Izmir              52.633            57,514           18                16               +2
26.  Kars                34,576           37.782            -                11              -11
27.  Kayseri             15,448           16,880            3                 S               -2
28.  Kirklareli          9,436            10,311            8                 3               +S
29.  Konya              63,734            69,644           1S                20               -S
30.  Kutahya             10,1S9           11,101           10                 3               +7
31.  Manisa             81,615            89,183           1S                25              -10
32.  Mardin              16,788           18,345            1                 5               -4
33.  Hugla              26,8S3            29,343           13                 8               +5
34.  Hus                 14,473           15,815            -                 S               -S
35.  Nevsehir            10,234           11,183            6                 3               +3
36.  Nigde               13,743           13,925            6                 4               +2
37.  Siirt               14,666           16.026            -                 4               -4
38.  Sivas              29,020            31.711            5                 9               -4
39.  Tekirdag            10.808           11,810            7                 3               +4
40.  Tokat               22,705           24,810            9                 7               +2
41.  Tunceli              9,429           10,303            1                 3               -2
42.  Urfa                26,543           29,004            1                 8               -7
43.  Usak                 5,813            6,352            4                 2               +2
44.  Van                 22.379           24,848            1                 7.J
Total for 44
Project Provinces    1,034,281         1,125,815          309               320              -11
Position for TCZB
as a Whole            1,353,776        1,479,307          430               423               +7



ANNEX 4
-77-                                     Page 8 of 8
Table 2
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Requirements of University-Level Staff by Province
for Medium- and Long-Term Loan Ogerations
Required       Required No.
No. of             of
No. of                                           University-      University-
Outstanding           Projected No. of              Level Staff      Level Staff
Project         MLT Loans as of    Outstanding MLY Loans as of           as of             as of
ProvinceO Dec. 31. 198S    Dec  a1 198Z_  Dec, 31..jAB   Dec.  31 .1lAZ   Dec. 31.  193a
1.   Adana                3,939             4,304       4,433                 14               22
2.   Afyon                3,583             3,915        4,032                13               20
3.   Agri                 1,483             1,621        1,670                 5                a
4.   Amasya                 823               899          926                 3                5
S.   Ankara               4,689             5,124        S,278                17               26
6.   Antalya              2,296             2,509        2,584                 8               13
7.   Balikesir            4,157             4.542        4,678                15               23
8.   Bingol                 384               420          433                 1                2
9.   Bitlis               1,104             1.206        1,242                 4                6
10.  Burdur               1,432             1.565        1,612                 5                8
11.  Bursa                1,865             2.038        2,099                 7               10
12.  Canakkale            1.707             1,865        1,921                 6               10
13.  Cankiri              1.616             1,766        1,819                 6                9
14.  Corum                1,032             1,128        1,162                 4                6
15.  Denizli              3.331             3,640        3,749                12               19
16.  Diyarbakir   5       1,205             1,317        1,357                 4                7
17.  Edirne       ,         991             1,083        1,115                 4                6
18.  Erzincan         .    569                622          641                 2                3
19.  Erzurum              2,237             2,444        2,517                 8               13
20.  Eskisehir            1.841             2.012        2,072                 7               10
21.  Guushane               486               531          547                 2                3
22.  Hakkari                179               196          202                 1                1
23.  Isparta              1,739             1,900        1,957                 6               10
24.  Icel (Mersin)        1,330             1,453        1,497                 5                7
25.  Iamir                4,268             4,664        4,804                16               24
26.  Kars                 2.803             3,063        3,155                10               16
27.  Kayseri -            1,252             1,368        1,409                 S                7
28.  Kirklarefi             765               836          861                 3                4
29. Konya                 5,168             5,647        S,816                19               29
30.  Kutahya                824               900          927                 3                S
31.  Manisa               6,617             7,230        7,447                24               37
32.  Nardin               1,361             1,U47        1,532                 S                8
33.  Nugla                2,177             2,379        2,450                 8               12
34.  Mus                  1,174             1,283        1,321                 4                7
35.  Nevsehtr               830               907          934                 3                S
36.  N';de                1,114             1,217        1,253                 4                6
37.  Slirt                1,189             1,299        1.338                 4                7
38.  Sivas                2,353             2,571        2,648                 9               13
39.  Tekirdag               876               957          986                 3                S
40.  Tokat                1,841             2,012        2,072                 7               10
41.  Tunceli                764               835          860                 3                4
42.  Urfa                 2,152             2,351        2,422                 8               12
43.  Usak                   471               S1S          530                 2                3
44.  Van                 1.844             2.D015       2.076                  7               10
Total for 44
Project Provinces        83,861            91,636       94.384               306              471



-78-                        ANNEX 5
Page 1. of 5
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TCZB Training Program
Background
1.       TCZB is in the process of modernizing its systems and procedures.
Desired improvements necessitate the introduction of measures to upgrade the
skills of existing and new personnel. The need can be best addressed by
establishing arrangements for intensive, systematic, and result-oriented
training of major categories of staff, with special emphasis on the training
of branch managers, loan officers, and technical staff.
2.       TCZB's current training program is based on its main training center
in Ankara and four regional training centers, although a few of the senior and
middle level staff are sent abroad for special training. The annual training
program is prepared and approved by a Training Committee.'' The emphasis of
the program is on training new recruits and lower level personnel, and the
courses are general in nature. TCZB's magagement is conscious of the need to
develop and improve in-house training facilities. A beginning has been made
to impart intensive training to technical'and loan officers with the
introduction of an eight-week course on the preparation and appraisal of
agro-industrial projects. In addition, a'revision of the existing training
program in order to introduce courses designed to address skills gaps would be
appropriate.
Concept
3.      TCZB would, therefore, adopt two sets of measures to strengthen the
training of its personnel. In order to develop high priority skills which are
in inadequate supply, it would introduce an interim program in October 1989.
For the longer term, TCZB would undertake a needs assessment, based on skills
gap analysis, to define training requirements for all major groups of staff
and design a training program as appropriate to address those needs.
Interi  Program
4.       Under the interim training program, three new courses would be
conducted at the Training Center in Ankara (Attachments 1 to 3). Included
would be courses in farm production aaalysis (for ST lending operations), farm
investment analysis (for medium- and long-term lending), and monitoring and
evaluaion (in support of the new M&E system being introduced). In addition,
TCZB would make arrangements with MAFRA for TCZB's technical staff to attend
1/ The Committee is chaired by the Assistant General Manager in charge of the
Training Department and its membership consists of Director of Personnel
Department, Read of the Board of Insprectors, and Director of Training
Department.



ANNEX 5
-79-                           Page 2 of 5
workshops which will enable them to remain current on new developments in
agricultural technolog  '.
5.       The lead responsibility for designing new courses in farm production
analysis and farm investment analysis would be assumed by an Assistant
Director from TCZB's Agricultural Credit Department. He would collaborate
with other departments dealing with agricultural credit1', the Project
Analysis Department, and the Training Department, and liaise with the State
Investment Bank (DYB) and MAFRA. Likewise, an Assistant Director from the
Project Analysis Department (in charge of the proposed M&E unit) would be
assigned the lead responsibility for designing the monitoring and evaluation
course. The trainers for the new coursea would be from the Agricultural
Credit Department, other departments dealing with agricultural creditt', the
Project Analysis Department, and the Training Department, and guest lecturers
from DYB, local universities and possibly MAFRA.
6.       Two courses each in farm production analysis and farm investment
analysis and a course in monitoring and evaluation would be conducted during
the second half of 1989, and the training program would be continued over the
period 1989-1991. Prior planning would be in accordance with the following
schedule:
Approval of the Annual Training Program for 1990   October 1989
incorporating the proposed new courses
Appointment of lead officers to design the          October 1989
new courses
Approval of course curricula/syllabi for the        November. 1989
new courses
Fixation of timing of the initial courses           November 1989
to be conducted during January 1990-June 1990
Preparation of training material including          November-December 1989
case studies and programs for field visits,
and identification of trainers as well as
participants for the initial training courses
Introduction of the proposed training courses       January 1990
1/ MAFRA's training program for extension staff includes workshops and courses
suitable for the agricultural technology training needs of TCZB technical
staff.
2/ Such as Encouragement and Development Loans Department, Supervised Credit
Department, Water Products Credit Department, and Seed Credit Department.



ANNEX 5
-80-                          Page 3 of 5
Longer-Term Program
7.       The preparation of a sound training program for the longer term would
include: (a) an assessment of needs, involving the description of tasks
required to be performed by major categories of staff and determination of
skills to perform the tasks; (b) identification of gaps in skills among
existing and new staff; (c) determination of priorities for overcoming these
gaps, (d) design of a program of training consisting of induction, in-service,
and refresher courses, in accordance with the priorities; (e) determination of
training sequences for different groups of staff; and (f) development of a
capability for delivering the appropriate training.
8.       TCZB would begin to establish a regular faculty for its training
center by posting qualified staff as instructors on long-term assignments (3-5
years). At the rate of three staff per year to be assigned to the training
institute in January each year, a faculty of 6 instructors, with
specialization in delivering training in agricultural credit and banking would
be developed by January 1991. Further, in order to develop a capability to
undertake skills gap analysis for designing a training program for the longer
term, TCZB would provide training in this field for some of its staff, in
particular to managers (Assistant Directors and above) from the Training
Department. The project would include about 20 fellowships (Attachment 4) for
this specialized training, as well as for the training of instructors and also
zfor the top graduates of the new courses under the interim program to further
their knowledge in their respective field at institutions abroad.  Another ten
followships would be made available for the training of system analysts in the
Automation Department.
9.       An international organization, e.g. FAO, could be engaged to organize
the fellowship training at institutions such as the Manchester Business
School, the Royal Institute of Public Administration in the UK, the Bradford
University, the Rabobank Training Institute, the Oko Bank Training College in
Finland, the Training Institute of the Agricultural Development Bank of
Pakistan, and the College of Agricultural Bauking in India.



-81-                         ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 5
Attachmaent I
Course Name:       Farm Production Analysis Course
Number of Hours:   90 hours (3 weeks)
Number of Participants
per course:       40
Location:          Ankara
Obiectives:        Convey the knowledge and skills of farm income analysis to
TCZB's selected staff - agricultural technicians and junior
level officers - concerned with short-term lending.
Structure:         Lectures, exercises and discussions on related subjects;
case studies and field workshops and visits.
Outline:           Preparation of crop budgets, operating cost and income
models for livestock activities, and relevant financial
tables and their use in agricultural credit operations;
crop budgets as a tool to analyze the importance of
technological packages and cultivation practices such as
land preparation and fertilizer/plant protection chemical
applicatior.
Target Audience:   The course is planned for agricultural technicians and
junior level officers of TCZB, responsible for appraising
and supervising short-term seasonal credits.
Attachment 2
Course Name:       Farm Investment Analysis Course
Number of Hours:   120 hours (4 weeks)
Number of Participants
per course:       40
Location:          Ankara
Obiectives:        Convey the knowledge and skills of farm investment analysia
to TCZB's selected staff - Branch Managers, Senior Loan
Officers and Agricultural Engineers - concerned with
medium- and long-term lending.
Structure:         Lectures, exercises and discussions on selected subjects;
case studies and field workshops and visits.
Outline:           Differences between farm investment analysis, farm income
and funds flow analysis; preparation of investment models,
phasing and pricing benefits and costs, concept of
incremental income, financial and economic analysis and
rates of return, effects of inflation, shadow prices,
sensitivity analysis, use of investment models in credit
operations including determination of repayment terms,
supervision and follow-up of loans.
Target Audience:   The course is planned for Branch Managers, Senior Loan
Officers and Agricultural Engineers, responsible for
managing or appraising/supervising medium- and long-term
credit operations.



ANNEX 5
-82-                         Page 5 of 5
Attachment 3
Course Name:       Monitoring and Evaluation Course
Number of Hours:   90 hours (3 weeks)
Number of Participants
per course:       20
Location:          Ankara
Objectives:        Assist TCZB personnel concerned with monitoring and
evaluation of loan programs to understand the importance
and techniques of project impact analysis and to develop
knowledge in sampling techniques and data collection and
analysis required for meaningful monitoring and evaluation.
Structure:         Lectures, exercises and discussions on related subjects;
case studies and field workshops and visits.
Outline:           Definitions of M&E, purpose and objectives, data sheet
preparation, planning for data collection, processing and
consolidation analysis, sampling techniques, gathering of
samples of major types of loans to be covered by monitoring
and evaluation, measuring crop production and production
changes, data handling and analysis, data presentation, and
related issues.
Target. Audiece:  The course is planned for technical staff of the M&E unit
within TCZB's Project Analysis Department and of the
regional N&E units who are in charge of measuring the
impact on farm production and incomes resulting from credit
activities undertaken by farmers.
Attachment 4
Fellowship Program
Category                                              No. of Fellowship
of Staff            Obiective                   1989     1990      1991     Total
Managers            Develop a capability         2        2        -         4
(Assistant Di.rec-   to undertake a skills
tors and above)     gap analysis
Instructors at      Training of trainers        -         2        4         6
Training Institute
Top graduates of    Advanced training            2        2         6       10
new courses under
the Interim Program
System Analysts                                  -        4         6       10
TOTAL             4       10        16       30



-83-                      ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 3
TCZB
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Prolect Credit Guidelines
Eligibility of Borrowers
1.       Project credit is available directly and indirectly (through the TKK)
to creditworthy farmers for viable crop and livestock production and
investment activities in the project provinces.
ADpraisal
2.       Loan applications are appraised on the basis of the creditworthiness
of the farmer, who is considered creditworthy if the proposed production
and/or investment activity is viable, adequate repayment capacity is
projected, he provides appropriate security, and has a satisfactory repayment
record.
3. Activities to be financed are considered viable if they utilize sound
agricultural technology, including appropriate environmental considerations,
as judged by the technical staff, and generate income adequate to provide a
satisfactory return to the farmer. The financial viability is judged in part
by the incremental benefit/cost ratio (as indicated in the typical crop
budgets) for production activities and the financial rate of return (as
indicated in the typical investment siodels or individual farm plans) for
investment activities.
4.       Short-term (ST) production loans are appraised on the basis of
typical crop budgets reflecting recomiended technology in the major
agricultural regions. Typical crop budgets are updated semi-annually to
incorporate changes in technology recommendations and current costs/prices.
The incremental benefit/cost ratio is determined by comparing production using
recommended technology and production using traditional technology. A lOb
sample of production loans is reviewed by agricultural technicians to ensure
that they are in accordance with the typical crop budgets, considering local
conditions.
5.       Medium/long-term (MLT) loans are appraised on the basis of typical
investment models (for investments with a cost of 1988 TL 50 million or less)
reflecting recommended types and levels of investment, or individual farm
plans (for investments with a cost of more than 1988 TL 50 million). The
typical investment models are updated annually and include a contingency to
cover expected price increases during the investment period. The financial
rate of return is calculated on the basis of the incremental income generated
by the investment. Each investment loan is reviewed by a professional staff
(university graduate) to ensure that those based on typical investment models
are in accordance with the models, considering local conditions. For the
larger investments, the professional staff visit the farms and prepare
investment plans specifically for those farms. The financial rate of return
is calculated for each plan.



-84-                            ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
Soecial Appraisal Emphasis
6.       Because of the conditions in certain input and output markets,
particular attention is given to the analysis of related investment
activities. In preparing typical models for these activities, a careful
review is made of existing and expected market conditions.  Staff analyzing
individual loan requests for these investments give careful consideration to
local market conditions.  In some cases, specific appraisal criteria (such as
minimum area requirements for tractors) are applied to help ensure that only
viable investments are financed. Activities that are given particular
attention at present are tractor mechanization, horticulture, beef fattening,
milk production, and broiler production.
Borrower Contributions
7.       The borrower's contribution (in cash and in kind) for ST production
operations is determined as a residual after the application of credit norms
for the various inputs which are determined annually by Government. The
typical crop budgets indicate the proportion of production cost provided by
the borrower for each crop. In the case of medium- and long-term investment
loans, the borrower's contribution is normally 10 for small- and medium-scale
farmers and 30-40 for larger farmers.
Security
8.       Since repayment is related fundamentally to the ability of the
borrower to repay out of income generated by the production and/or investment
activities financed, the primary assurance of repayment is the viability of
the activity, which is assessed during appraisal. However, security
arrangements provide an important incentive for the borrower to repay, and
project security requirements are related to the term of the loan and the
nature of the inputs financed. For production loans and uachinery/equipment
loans, the preferred forms of security are:
(i)    Joint liability of at least five borrowers each of whom serves
as guarantor for the others; or
(ii)    co-guarantees of at least two persons with sufficient financial
standing to repay on behalf of the borrower; or
(iii)    chattel mortgage on crops, machinery and equipment, and/or
livestock.
If the borrower provides tangible collateral as security, its value is related
to the amount of the loan plus interest.
Repayment Terms
9.       The terms of project loans are related to the useful life of the
inputs financed, the cash flow resulting from the production or investment
activity, and the cash flow of the farm. The grace period, if any, is related



-85-
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 3
to the start-up period, during which the cash flow is insufficient to cover
the principal repayment and still provide a reasonable cash income to the
borrower.
Disbursement
10.      In order to encourage borrowers to utilize loan funds for the purpose
intended, disbursements are made directly to suppliers whenever feasible. In
addition, technical staff make discrete judgments about the extent to which
farmers have utilized planned inputs in implementing their production or
investment activities, during periodic farm visits (see below).
Supervision
11.      Supervision is undertaken to identify problems that borrowers
encounter in implementing their production and investment activities, provide
suggestions on how to overcome the difficulties, and refer borrowers to
sources of advice on particular matters. Close coordination is maintained
with HAFRA's extension service, because credit and extension reinforce each
other and the assistance provided to borrowers by the extension service can
help ensure the success of borrowers' operations and thus facilitate good loan
repayment performance. Whenever practical, bank staff make joint farm visits
with extension staff. In any case, bank and extension staff keep each other
informed of planned farm visits and coordinate their work to the maximum
extent. For borrowers with particular difficulties, bank staff request that
the extension service give increased attention to the borrowers or to the
villages where these borrowers are located.
Evaluation
12.      Evaluation of the impact of production and investment activities on
farm output and income will be undertaken to increase the effectiveness of
lending policies and procedures. A particular use of results is the revision
of typical crop budgets and investment models and the preparation of
individual farm plans, in light of operational experience. Particular
attention will be directed to investment activities with uncertain market
conditions, such as those given special emphasis at appraisal (see above).
The evaluation work will be directed by the central and regional monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) unit to be established. Field data will be collected by
agricultural technicians and engineers during their regular supervision visits
to farms, under the guidance of the central and regional M&E units.
13.      Agricultural technicians undertake a program of farm visits for the
same 101 sample of ST production loans which they reviewed at appraisal,
maintaining close contact with the village group technicians of the extension
service. University graduates carry out a program of farm visits throughout
the investment period for all medium- and long-term loans which they have
reviewed. They maintain a close association with the district agricultural
engineers of the extension service.



-86-
ANNEX 7
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Credit Prggram AreA
ReIoan                    Province
Marmara                     1.  Bursa
2. Edirne
3. Kirklareli
4. Tekirdag
Aegean                      S.  Balikesir
6. Burdur
7. Canakkale
8. Denizli
9. Isparta
10. Izm1r
11. Manisa
12. MHgla
North Central              13.  Ankara
14. Cankiri
15. Corum
16. Eskisehir
17. Kutahya
South Central              18.  Afyon
19. Kayseri
20. Konya
21. Nevsehir
22. Nigde
23. Yozgat
24. Kirsehir
Mediterranean              25.  Adana
26. Antalya
27. Icel (Mersin)
East Central              28.  Amasya
29. Sivas
30. Tokat
Northeast                  31.  Agri
32. Erzincan
33. Kars
34. Erzurum
Southeast                 35.  Bitlis
36.  Diyarbakir
37. Mardin
38. S1irt
39. Sanliurfa
40. Van
41. Hatay
42. Gaziantep
43. Adlyaman
44.  Kahrmanmiaras
45.  Malatya



-87-
ANNEX 8
Table I
TURKEY
TRIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Prolect Cost Phasing
Totals Including Contingencies           Totals Including ContiUnciss
'T. Billion)                             (USS Million)
19M81M  19/190 199011991 Total    198WI99 1919/1990 I /1991 Total
It INVESTMENT COSTS
A. FAR tYELOPMENT
lNCREIAETAL PRODUCTION                        71.7      107.8      1396.  319.1         36.6       41.2       40.1   117.9
INVESTENT                                    U47,6      972.9   1.402,0 34022.5        330,7      371n8     402.4 1,104.9
Sub-Total FARN DEvELOPnENT                       ?19,3   1,080.7   1,541*6 39341.6        367.3      413.0      442.5 1,222.8
3. INST1TUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
MEHICLES                                        3.8       2*5        0.3    6.6          1.9        1.0        0.1     3.0
CONSULTANT SERVICES                             0.1      09         0.1      1.0        0.1        0.3        0.0     0.4
FELLOSSHIPS                                     0.1       0.2        0.s     0.8         0.0       O0.         0.2     0.3
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL DEMELOPENT                 4,0        3.5       1.0      8.5        2.0        1.3        0.3      3.7
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                              723*3   1.084,2   1s542.6 30350,1        3U9,4      414.3      442.9 1,226.5
zm2222222  22222223  222232222 2222222  222222  2222222-  z2222222  #2233222
Total PRJECT COSTS                                   72.3   1,084.2   1.542.6 3.350.1          369.4     414.3      442.8 1,226.5
Mav 5, 198 16,48



-88-                                          ANNEX 8
Table 2
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
S!mr, Accounts _y Year
(TL Billion)
Pass Costs
(TL Pillion)              Foreign Exchan
1M8/1989 I8/19O 1990/1991 Total            I    Awont
z2DZ2Xx    3zaxz23  383323323 am=m23     2238Z    232
. INSTNT  OSTS
A. FARM DEELOPENT
!NCRETAL PRODUCTION                         60.1      64.4      60,1  184,6    25.8       47*6
INVESTMENT                                 541.5    S80.1    605.8 1,727.5    47.6    822.9
Sub-Total FAR DELOPENT                        601,6     644.6     665.9 1.912.1     45.5    870.6
B. INSTITUTIOA  DLOPMENT
VECLES                                       2.9       1.3       0.1    4.3    82.7        3.6
CONSULTANT SERVICES                          0.1       0.5       0.0     0.6    84.9       0.5
FELLMNIPS                                    0.1       0.1       0.2     0.4    100.0      0.4
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT             3.0       1.9       0.4   54       84,3      4.6
Total INlES1TWET COSTS                           604.      646.5    666.4 19917.5      45.6    875.1
Total SASEIINE COSTS                              604.6    646.5      666.4 1917.5      45.6   875,1
Physical Ccntinncies                             0.3       0.1       0.0     0.4    82.7       0.4
Price Contingncies                             118.3    437.6      876.2 1.432.2    45.6   652.4
Total PRECT COSTS                                 723.3   1,084.2   19542.6 3#350,1     45.6  1.527.9
a     _--- -     ---- ---     -------
Taxes                                           72,3     108.3    154.2   334.8       0.0      0.0
Foreign Exchage                                332.0    495.9      699.9 1.527.9      0.0      0.0
Noa St 1989 16:48



Tabl 1. 1Umm            N  1   gIF   mm llfimll   ITP1 Ut  I)
altdo    Csto  Tdi
DM  Cats                        B1   Cst lk *                Totds Im:idi  Cx1atas               TOWS !inhldlm   _1utas
osati                                         (I  Bilion)                         cm  lubs)                           (IL 0llhln                         (s luls
unit Cost
flit 1933/93919391990190/199  otal (IL flUbs)  1980/193919  /991/19 19MUM  Tota    2933/1e3 193919919MAIM9  Total 1939/13919391990190199  Total   19I939g 1g/1990 199019   Tota
-.                  - -.                   Wt b         m  
A. FM T13
1. INEM     . P3     2                 --    -                                      31.0     32.5     34.1   97.6       18.5      19.5     20.4 56*4       36.9     54.5      79.2  170*7      1.9      20.3      22.7 62.4
2. JaETElNT                            -        -         '    -                   472.2    486.4    501.1 1*459.3     232.6    291.1    299. 873.6       564.8    15.   119.7 2150.2         28.4    311-7       M.9 93M.0
9-Toad FMl Ei9       t                                                               503.2    519.0    535.2 1.557,4     301.1    310.6    320.3 92.0       601.7    870.2  1t238  271 0.0        7.3    332.5    3569 95.4
B. IS3TIITUM 1.nENT
1. 9312  (44)              NO        132       a2         6  200        21.433       2.9      1.3      0.1    4.3        1.7      0.8       0.1  2.6        3.3      2.5       0.3    6.6       1.9      1.0       0.1  L0
2. CLtUT  inE              a1          5       19         2   26        24.212       0.1      0.5      0.0    0.6        0.1       0.3      0.0  0.4        0.1      0.3       0.1    1.0       0.1      0.3      0*0  0.4
h FELOFS                   gD          4       10        16   30        14.4215      0.1      0.1      0.2    0.4        0.0       0.1      0.1  0.3        0.1      0*2       0.5    0.8       0.0      0.1       0.2  0.3
lTtu 11 UT           I. UVRLWET                                                         3.0      1.9      0.4    5.4        1.3       1.2      0.2  3.2        4.0      it5       1.0    5.5       2.0      1.        0.2  3.?
Tol DENI"     t COSt0                                                                    506.2    520.9    53.6 1.562.8      303.0    311.7    320.6 935.3    645.7    873J  19219.9 2bn791         W.3   3m9    35L9999.1
Total                                                                                    506.2    520.9    535.6 125.8        303.0    311.7    320.6 935,3      605.7     7.w  1#.239.9 3,79.       3W94    33.9    35.9  M9.
-           -        - ul-                                                                           -- --- -
b~1.1939 26409



1ilm  AWLTmI    C UIT NIIP ?T
TOlWS 2.  IAQLIL  CEDIT COPUATWE 4ltm)
lltaile Cost Table
Itdt               UN Csts                         bO   Costs in 6             Toals 1twig"    tM mia             TOts  laliW  C=mt
hastt                   cast              (I  Billim)                         I=  11lliei)                       (TL li11n)                         (O
(TL
uitb 19/          1969/1990  1999   TOtWl Milli"a) 19319 1969/190 19w919  Total 1981999 1999/19  1990/11 Ttal t19/99 19/m 0 t199/n   Toa  19S/19  1991    199n/1 Toa
a. ~mul COSTS
FM IIES    LOEIT  E
1. IUITiL             U-                         -         -                     29.2      21.9      26.0 4?.0       17.4     19.1      15.6 52.1       34.E      533      60.4 1435       17.8     20.4      17.3  55.5
2. IUWENl4T                             -        -         -    _                 69.2     93.7    104.7 267.7       41.4     56.1      62.7 1602       62.8    157.2    242.4  2.3        42.3     60.1      69.6 171.9
Si-Totd  FM  IE !LPIT                                                               99.4    125.6    130.7 354.7        58.9     75.2      78.2 212.3     117.6    210.5    302.7 630.6       60.1      0.4      86.9 2274
Totl DIIITEhf CUMl                                                                     98.4    125.6    130+7 354.7        58.9     75.2      78.2 212.3     117.6    210.5    302.7 6.B         60.1     69.4      36.9 227.4
awa_        _      *ds          San        _           #a=a   _a                         =B s=  amn            _              mzu=  _ _ _ 
TOa                                                                                     99.4    125.6    130.7 354.7        5.9    75.2        73.2 212.3     117.6    210.5    302.7 630.8       60.1      0.4      66. 227.4
---           ----  -m   ----  .   m ....                   -      -------    non=  --------- -m-
Nuaw 16.  .9 609
14 zm IU09~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



-91-
ANNEX 8
Table 5
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Disburaement Schedule
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year              Quarterly                     Cumulative
and Quarter                Disbursement                  Disbursement
Amount         %
FY90
lQ                             55                       55           22
2Q                               1                      56           22
3Q                              10                      66           26
4Q                              12                      78           31
FY91
1Q                             14                       92           37
2Q                             16                      108          43
3Q                             15                      123          49
4Q                              15                     138           55
FY92
lQ                             16                      154          62
2Q                             19                      173          69
3Q                              17                     190           76
4Q                              17                     207           83
FY93
lQ                              12                     219          88
2Q                             10                      229           92
3Q                              8                      237           95
4Q                               6                     243           97
FY94
IQ                              4                      247           99
2Q                               3                     250          100



-92-
Annex 9
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Marketing Of Incremental Produce
1.       Cereals.  Turkey is a major producer of wheat, which is the main
cereal consumed domestically, and is producing increasing amounts uf maize,
primarily for livestock feed. Production and consumption of wheat have
remained rough'y equal over the last few years at about 17 million tons per
year, with net exports occurring in years of good harvest and net imports
occurring in off years. This pattern is expected to continue over the mr,dium
term.  Turkey's border price of wheat is expected to increase in constant
terms from TL 101/kg in 1986 to TL 105/kg in 1990. Incremental project output
would amount to less than 1% of 1983/84 average national production and would
not have any appreciable impact on price or marketing channels. Farmers in
the project area should have no difficulty marketing their output through
established channels consisting of private traders and local flour mills
(ci4rrently absorbing about 851 of national production) and the Soil Products
Office (TMO)(152).
2.       In the case of maize, production increased from 1.35 million tons in
1979 to 1.50 million tons in 1984, but has not kept pace with consumption,
which reached 1.64 million tons in 1984. As a result, Turkey began importing
maize in 1982, and imports exceeded 100,000 tons by 1984. The border price is
expected to rise in constant terms from TL 81/kg in 1986 to TL 92/kg in 1990.
Incremental project output would represent about 1% of 1983/84 average
national production and would not have any significant impact on price or
market structure. The system of private traders and feed mills currently
purchasing domestic maize production would handle the incremental project
output without difficulty.
3.       Lentils.  Lentil production increased from 195,000 tons in 1980 to
570,000 tons in 1985, while exports varied between 233,000 tons (1984) and
90,000 tons (1985) over the same period. Exports are expected to continue to
fluctuate in response to production conditions in main consumer countries.
This will have a significant impact on domestic production. The border price
is also expected to fluctuate, but on average is projected to remain constant
at TL 203/kg. Currently estimated incremental project output would be 1.71 oi
1983/84 average national production and would not have a noticeable effect on
prices. It would be absorbed by the existing market structure of private
traders and sales cooperatives without difficulty.
4.       Oilseeds.  Production of oilseeds rose from 1.5 million tons in 1982
to 1.7 million tons in 1984. In 1982, there were marginal net exports of
about 8,000 tons of oilseeds and net imports of about 150,000 tons of edible
oil. By 1984, the country had net imports of 58,000 tons of oilrseeds and
240,000 tons of edible oil. Thus, production has not been adequate to meet
the growing domestic demand. Border prices of sunflower seeds and soybeans
are expected to increase in constant terms from TL 120/kg and TL 162/kg in
1986 to TL 139/kg and TL 172/kg, respectively, in 1990. Incremental project
output of sunflower seed would be only 1.7b of 1983/84 average national



-93-
Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
production and would not have a sianificant impact on prices or marketing
channels. Although incremental project production of soybeans would be 141 of
1983/84 average national production, the latter has been growing rapidly (from
virtually nothing in 1980 to 60,000 tons in 1984), and inicremental project
output is expected to be readily absorbed. Production from the project would
be sold to sales cooperatives and private traders, which could handle the
increase with no difficulty.
5.       Cotton.  Turkey's production of cotton lint increased gradually from
500,000 tons in 1980 to 528,000 tons in 1984. An increasing proportion of
output has been absorbed by the domestic textile industry (300,000 tons, or
60%, in 1980 and over 400,000 tons, or 771, in 1984) for the production of
yarn, fabric, and garments for the growing domestic market and for export,
primarily to Europe. Thus, exports of lint have declined in both relative and
absolute terms. The border price of lint is expected to rise in constant
terms, from TL 558/kg in 1986 to TL 899/kg in 1990. Incremental project
output of lint would be less than 1% of 1983/84 average national production
and would be readily absorbed on the domestic market with negligible effect on
marketing channels or prices. Farmers would sell their output to private
ginneries or sales cooperatives.
6.       Livestock.  Turkey's production of cattle, sheep, goats, and poultry
has remained at about 870,000 tons carcass weight equivalent since 1980.
However, exports of live animals and meat expanded rapidly from 19,000 tons in
1980 to a peak of 100,000 tons in 1984. Exports hluve been primarily to the
Middle East and North Africa, where Turkey has estahlished markets. Recently,
as a result of falling oil prices in the Middle East and surplus sales by tLe
European Comiuunity (EC), priiXs have decreased and export revenues have
declined from a high of US$459 million in 1982 to US$258 million in 1985. The
decrease occurred primarily in the volume and unit price of beef exports and
to a lesser extent in the unit value of sheep exports. Poultry exports have
continued to expand. Turkey appears to have reasonable prospects for
livestock exports over the long run because of low-cost production and
geographical/cultural advantages in the Middle East markets but it will
continue to be affected by EC actions and prices can be expected to
fluctuate. Domestic consumption of livestock products will continue to expand
gradually with the growth in population and incomes. Prices will vary but are
expected to follow international price trends. For example, the border price
for beef is projected to rise in constant terms from TL 1,258/kg in 1986 to
TL 1,645/kg in 1995. Incremental project output of 36,000 tons per year would
be mostly for the domestic market and partly for export. Private processors
and the Meat and Fish Organization (EBK) would be able to accommodate the
additional output without difficulty. Because of the importance of industrial
byproduct feed for beef fattening and high quality poultry feed for broilers,
TCZB would give special attention when analyzing loan applications for
production of these commodities.



-94-
Annex 9
Page 3 of 3
7.       Milk.  Milk production has been declining gradually over the last few
years, from 5.5 million tons in 1980 to 4.4 million tons in 1984, partly in
response to the decreasing real price of raw milk established by the Milk
Industry Organization (TSEK). Imports of dairy products have averaged about
US$4.0 million per year since 1980. Surplus sales of powdered milk and cheese
by the EC currently are causing some disruption in the domestic market, and
Turkey will be affected by such actions from time to time. Nevertheless, the
prospects are for a gradual growth in domestic demand. The border price of
milk is expected to rise in constant terms from TL 152/kg in 1986 to TL 167/kg
in 1995. Incremental project output of 55,000 tons per year would amount to
12 of 1983/84 average national production and would have no significant effect
on market channels or prices. It would be readily absorbed by a few modern
private sector dairies, TSEK, and a large number of small private traders.
Because of the importance of a viable local market for milk, TCZP would give
specific emphasis to this aspect in considering loan applications for
production of this commodity.
8.       Wool.  Production of wool increased marginally from about 59,000 tons
(greasy) in 1979 to 63,000 tons in 1984, while imports grew from 6,500 tons to
14,200 tons over the same period to meet the increasing demands of the textile
industry. The border price for wool is expected to remain constant in 1986
terms at TL 3,280/kg. Incremental project output of about 500 tons would
substitute for imports and would not place any strain on market channels or
prices.
9.       Fruits and Vegetables.  Production of fruit1' increased gradually
from 7.3 million tons in 1980 to 7.8 million tons in 1984, and the production
of selected vegetables' increased from 9.7 million tons to 10.1 million
tons over the same period. While the domestic market for these commodities
continues to expand with growing population and incomes, export prospects have
fallen as a result of the entry of Spain and Portugal into the EC and the
reduction of oil prices in the Middle East; Eastern European markets continue
to offer export opportunities, but are subject to compensat3ry trade and
barter arrangements. Border prices of apples and tomatoes may be taken as
representative and al? expected to remain approximately constant in 1986 terms
at TL 470/kg and TL 930/kg, respectively, through 1995. Incremental project
output of fruit and vegetables would be negligible in relation to national
production and would have virtually no effect on the marketing system of
private traders or on prices. It is expected to be absorbed primarily on the
domestic market. Becanse of uncertainties in these markets, TCZB would give
special attention when considering loan applications for productiori of these
commodities.
1/   Citrus, pome fruit, stone fruit and grapes.
2/ Melon, tomato, eggplant, pepper, and cucumber.



-95-
ANNEX 9
Table I
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices /I
(TL)
Financial
Unit        Erice       Projected Economic Prices
CroR Outputs
Wheat                                              kg            75         103        107       100
12ize                                                            75          83         95        89
Lentil                                                          200         189        189       189
Soyabean                                                        125         164        174       174
Sunflower                                                       145         122        141       154
Field Vegetables                                                 25          30         30        30
Seed Cotton                                                     200         221        341       405
Citrus                                                           60          60         60        60
Apples                                                           80          80         80        80
Olives                                                          400         400       400        400
Greenhouse Vegetables
(tomatoes)                                                   160          160       160        160
Livestock Dutnuts
Cows' milk                                         kg           110         131        138       148
Improved Cattle          - cull Cows              head     350.000      361,000   455,000   472,000
- young bulls                     150,000      155,000   195.000   202,000
- in-calf heifers                 500,000      516,000   650,000   674,000
Indigenous Cattle        - cull cows                       200,000      206,000   260,000   270,000 
- young bulls                     100,000      103,000   130.000   135,000
- in-calf heifers                 125,000      129,000   163,000   168,000
- young heifers                   100.000      103,000   130,000   135,000
Beef Cattle                                                256,000      264,000   333,000   345.000
Sheep                                                       33,000       36,000    30.900    26.600
Merino Sheep Milk                                 liter         15o         179        188       202
Merino Wbol                                        kg           850       1,697      2,040     2,897
Indigenous Wool                                    0            550       1,100     1.320      1,875
Merino Sheep             - cull ewe               head       30,000      33,000    28,100    24,200
Merino Sheep             - cull ram                         45,000       49,100    42.100    36,300
Merino Sheep             - yearling ewe                      35,000      38,200    32,800    28,200
Merino Sheep             - yearling ram                      30,000      33,000    28,100    24,200
Indigenous Sheep         - cull ewe                         24,000       26,200    22,500    19,300
Indigenous Sheep         - cull ram                         36,000       39,300    33,700    29,000
Indigenous Sheep         - yearling ewe            ,        28,000       30,500    26,200    22.600
Indigenous Sheep         - yearling rami                    24,000       26,200    20,400    19,300
Angora Mohair                                      kg        4,000        4,000     4,000      4,000
Angora Goat              - cull she goat          head      21,000       21,000    21,000    21,000
Angora Goat              - cull billy goat                  32,000       32,000    32,000    32.000
Angora Goat              - yearling she goat                24,000       24,000    24,00X    24,000
Angora goat              - yearling billy goat              21,000       21,000    21,000    21,000
Eggs                                              item           22          30         27        26
Poultry Layer            - cull chicks                         400          494       444        421
Poultry Layer            - cull hens                           600          741       666        632
Poultry Broiler                                    kg          400          494       444        421
LI Farnmgate, as of April 1986.



-96-
ANNEX 9
Tabl e I
Page 2 of 2
Financial
Unit.    .fr.LPrice    Proiected Economic Prices
(March 86)    1986      199Q       1I=
Crnn 1n&uts
Wheat Seed                                          kg          75        103         107        100
Wheat Seed. Improved                                            85        117         121        113
Wheat Herbicide                                              1,716      1,716       1.716      1.716
Wheat Pesticide                                              2.450      2,450       2,450      2,450
N (21%)                                                         56         67         101         94
P (42%)                                             U          100        146         163        175
K (50%)                                             U          125         82          92         96
Maize Seed                                          n          175        194         222        208
Maize Seed, improved                                           750        750         750        750
Lentil Seed                                                    180        170         170        170
Lentil Seed, improved                               U          300        300         300        300
Sunflower Seed                                      U          225        189         219        239
Sunflower Seed, hybrid                              U       1,900       1,900      1900       1.900
Soyabean Seed                                       U         200         262         278        278
Cottoi, Seed                                        U          115        127         196        233
Tomato Seed                                         U   1.500.000  1,500.000  1.500,000  1.500.000
Polyethylene tubes                                              500      500         500        500
Livestock Inguts
Cow feed concentrate (16%)                          kg          63        105         115        110
Maize silage                                        U            3          3           3          3
Alfalfa (dry)                                       U           25         25          25         25
Hay                                                 U           20         20          20       ;206
Barley                                              U          60          82          86       ,.80.
Bran                                                            39         42          43         41.
Sugarbeet Pulp (wet)                                             5          5           S          SU
Molasses                                            U           12.5       12.5        12.5       12.5
Straw                                               *           12.5       12.5        12.5       12.5
Sunflower Seed Cake                                            50          46         49          52
Beef Cattle for fattening                          head   160,000    165,000    208.000    216.000
Beef Cattle for dairy                               U     525,000    541,000    683,000    707.000
Sheep for fattening                                 a      21.000      22,900      19,700     16,900
Merino Sheep for breeding           - ewes          a       35.000     38,200      32.800     28,200
Merino Sheep for breeding           - rams          U      50.000      54.500     46.800   - 40.300
Angora goat for breeding            - she goat      U       30.000     30.000      30.000     30.000
Angora goat for breeding            - billy goat   U       45,000      45,000     45,000      45,000
Goat feed concentrate                               kg          63        105         115        110
Chick for laying                                   head        227        280         252        239
Poultry feed                        - chicks        kg         61         102         111        107
Poultry feed                        - pullets       U           58         97         106        101
Poultry feed                        - layers                   57          95         104         99
Poultry feed                        - broiler                  98         120         131        126
Broiler chick                                      head        120        148         133        126
Lanr Inggts
Skilled                                            man-day  3.000       3.000       3.000      3.000
Unskilled - seasonal                                U        3,000      3.000       3,000      3,000
Unskilled - permanent                                        2,000      2,000       2,000      2,000
family                                              U            0      2,000       2.000      2.000
Family tractor driver                                            0      3,000       3.000      3,000



-97-ANE9
AI#EX 9
Table 2
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Assumptions for Economic Analysis
For the preparation of the economic analysis the following assumptions have
been made:
(a) Benefits, investment and operating costs are expressed in terms of
constant May 1986 border prices at the farmgate. Some changes have
occurred since May 1986 in both input and output prices. The impact
of these changes on rate of return calculations is small and well
within the margin allowable based on sensitivity analysis.
(b) Internationally traded commodities are valued using projected border
prices adjusted to the farmgate. The border prices are based on
Turkey's actual (1983-85) export and import unit values, where
available, and projections in real terms of world market price
trends. Adjustments are made for intermediate domestic costs of
transport, handling, and processing between the farm and Turkey's
borders.
(c) The domestic prices of non-traded goods and labor are adjusted by the
standard conversion factor (SCF) (0.79), or by the conversion factor
for capital goods (0.72).
(d) Family labor is costed (before adjustment by the SCF) at the same
value as that of its nearest off-peak alternatives for a permanently
employed semi-skilled farmhand in rural areas. Peak season
sniA-skilled labor is valued at the prevailing market rate.
(e) Market wage rates, adjusted by the SCF, have been used for the
valuation of hired and family labor. While the rates for permanent
semi-skilled and family labor probably overestimate the opportunity
costs, given underemployment and unemployment in rural areas during
off-peak periods, they have been used as conservative estimates.
Therefore the ERRs and NPVs may be understated to some extent.
(f) Taxes, subsidies and other transfer payments within the economy are
excluded from costs and benefit estimates.
(g) Institutional costs of lending by TCZB and TKK are charged to the
crop budgets and individual farm models.
(h) A life of 10 years is assumed in the analysis of all investment
activities. Residual herd values, scrap values for machinery and
replacements for investments are credited to the respective benefit
or cost streams.



-98-                           ANNEX 9
Table 3
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Foreign Exchange Earnings/Savings
Projected
1995             Gross
Incremental   Export/Import   Foreign Exchange
Output        Price'&        Earnings/Savings
('000 tons)     (tTS$hon)       (US$ million)
Wheat                                 80.6           148              11.9
Maize                                 13.7           132               1.8
Cereals Subtotal                  94.3                           13.7
Lentils                               10.2           307               3.1
Cotton lint                            3.1         1,641               5.1
Sunflower                             11.8           231               2.7
Soyabeans                              7.5           260               2.0
Oilseeds Subtotal                 19.3                            4.7
Tomatoes                              19.7           198               3.9
Apples                             .   1.8           277               0.5
Citrus                                 4.4           377               1.7
Olives                                 0.6           800               0.5
Fruits & Vegetables Subtotal      26.5                            6.6
Beef meat lb                          13.2         2,493              32.9
Sheep meat ;k                          6.5         1,661              10.8
Poultry meat /b                       16.5         1,153              19.0
Meat Subtotal                     36.2                           62.7
Cow's milk                            47.6           206               9.8
Wool                                   0.5         4,972               2.5
Mohair                                 0.8         8,000               6.4
Eggs                                  13.4         1,107              14.8
TOTAL                                                                129.4
/a   Expressed in constant 1986 US dollars.
/b   Carcass weight.



TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECI
Producers' Benefits from Farm Investments
Net Operating Income
Size of                from all Farming          Incremental
Type of              Activity                    Activities              Income
Investment              at Full              Without        With        Attributable                  Switching
Activity             Development             Project       Proiect       to Proiect       FRR        Values /a
-  ('000 1986 TL) -      ('000 1986 TL)               R      I     OC
Mechanization /b          30 ha                      -           1,780           1,780         26      -20    46    53
Beef Fattening /b         20 steers                  -             958             958         30       -5   104      5
Dairying                   10 cows                 558           2,974           2,416         17      -10    31    19          a
$60
Broiler Production /b    3,000 birds                 -           2,706           2,706         51      -12   146    15
Egg Production  /b        8,000 layers               -          13,238          13,238         52      -18   184    25
Goat Breeding              100 does                297           1,717           1,420         20      -17    40    39
Sheep Breeding            100 ewes                 953           2,003           1,050         13       -2      4      3
Sheep Fattening           100 lambs                i97             821             524         38        -4    94      5
La  Percent change required in farm revenues (R), investment (I), or operating costs (OC) to reduce the FRR to
121.
lb  These are new investment acticities which are considered in isolation from previous farm activities.



-100-                           ANNEX 10
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Selected Reports Related to the Agricultural Sector
and Agricultural Credit Subsector
A-1    IBRD, Turkey - Agricultural Sector Survey, Report No. 1684-TU, June 23,
1978.
A-2    IBRD, Turkey - Public Sector Investment Review, Report No. 3472-TU,
December 1981.
A-3    IBRD, Turkey - Agricultural Development:  Problems and Opportunities,
Report No. 3178a-TU, May 7, 1981
A-4    IBRD, Turkey - Erzurum Rural Development Project, Staff Appraisal
Report No. 3671-TU, January 26, 1982.
A-5    IBRD, Turkey - Agricultural Development Alternatives for Growth with
Exports, Report No. 4204-TU, November 22, 1982.
A-6    IBRD, Turkey - Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project,
Staff Appraisal Report No. 4818-TU, March 13, 1984.
A-7    IBRD, Turkey - Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan, Staff Appraisal
Report No. 5576-TU, May 22, 1985.
A-8    IBRD, Turkey - Finuincial Sector Adjustment Loan, Staff Appraisal Report
No. 6095-TU, May 15, 1986.
A-9    IBRD, Turkey - Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan Report and
Recommendation of the President, No. P-4784-TU, May 25, 1988.
A-10   IBRD, Turkey - Agroindustry Project, Staff Appraisal Report
No. 7653-TU, May 10, 1989
B. Project Implementation Volume
Annex 11  -  TCZB
Annex 12  -  TKK
Annex 13  -  Draft lORs for TCZB Institutional Development
Annex 14  -  Dra't MAFRA Coordination Protocols
Annex 15  -  Illustrative Farm Models
C. Selected Pre-appraisal Working Papers1'
B-1    TCZB Institutional Development
B-2    TCZB Financial Analysis
B-3    TCZB Technical Analysis
B-4    Agricultural Credit Cooperatives
B-5    Economic Analysis
1/  Updated to June 30, 1986.



TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TCZB HEAD OFFICE ORGANIZATION
I    -                I
CrekBwde
Chaifmanof1
Board &
General Directorj
-T-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Asistanteeal             Assisa      ral &        Assistant Genwa          Assistant General        Assdan Genal             Assistant Genera
Member of Board          Membooard   |Drec                                     Director                 Dirctor                   Dirctor
-Special Office         -1oneya  Bonds           -Corstuction a           *ArWulural Credit        -Commeria Crt             -Lea Depamet            -Acountn
Department               Deprtment Suildn DepoqaMt                                                  Depamnt                                          -DalaProoss
-BadSe iat               -Dpos  & Bank             Pernneepartent          -                           p o                                                   nt
-Board of InpectSe spam -tonm'acatlon                                       Developmen1t Credit      DepartMnt
Dlrd Dli                -Forein Operaom            DDpet                    D      t                -In4erman Department
Boad of                  Deatment                    ent a purr           -Flshedles Creit         -Project Evauation
Exmnaom                -Pubc Rons                      eaD     nt          Depwrtw                  Depart men
-SaerearIa o             Department                      Sevcs-Copative*s-ncueeet
CW    ofw          -05t D1S"es w                                                                            ^Bu    D                                            p
CoD Dees                                            O qc earmn  eprmn      Deowint                  DevelopmntnLean
CotrtDeprment             or Regios               Set Servce               Sol Agrcltual^            Deprmn
-Reginl Direrae.          Deatnt                   Refom Credt             -Cpia MarIrateeptten
-ForeggOeonM            ZH Ca                      Depant                   Department
inLocalances             D     _atet             -drit
-Foreign BSche.          *P*   Depa*n=nt           Deptmen
a RPsn i                -enal Dietorate
kW Diectors
1Wte43133
ocaed A        sanb  lzb, Sasu Adan D0bakr Enurwm Kw" a dVa



-102-
TURKE
THIRD AN9CULIURAL CREW POECT
IKl CENTRAL UNION ORIANIAlON
r &
$.'ai~ce . Aecou~li  M0 Qf W
Iofo Iwo
Cr..,~ ~ ~  iS6l BgWf  OQIO                        biSAG
evo ."    I       - 
-                                         rOdIjC1~ &LOWwAW ASSAd 
Q_~                          - A.           VW O
AcCil"                       E~*r.                  Qu.  .ois~rn,
r;l -ITll;lrIrl:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
VWW"                                                    ftoo"ft
mw o SoM-3C4Al



40                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBID 20320R
=: X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                                        L/. 
-3-  /       g-*g~~~~~~~ J>/  -               >                                           g/8ATi!~, To3gda                         THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                             3
-B e n   T r   R R A N E A N  S E A
Si 10                   IS.'                                                                                                     --i- ( AJLROADS
c     Xi LI"   RIA        ii              Y  CYPRUS                                                                                       PROV1NQ BOUNDIS
_ne~=   <KiLOMETEISiS ~     \            _/                           \                                                  _._ INTIEliNASIONAL 30UNDARIES
i-----a--r n-----AU-
55.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~K KSTMN
iso,           Keste.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O~EB818



