Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13976-TO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN NO.3090-TU)
FEBRUARY 16, 1995
Agriculture and Envirnment Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)
Value of US$1.00 in T
1987          856
1988        1,421
1989        2,121
1990        2,608
1991        4,170
1992        6,888
1993       10,986
September, 1994
US$1.00                           TL 33,800
TL 1,000                          US$0.03
TL 1,000,000           =          US$30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                         2.20 pounds
1 metric ton                            1,000 kilograms, 0.98 long ton
I hectare (ha)                          2.47 acres
1 decare                                0.1 ha
1 square kilometer (km)      =          0.386 square mile
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Turkey          -         January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ERR          -      Economic Rate of Return
FAO          -      Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FRR          -      Financial Rate of Return
FSAL         -      Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GOT          -      Government of Turkey
ICR          -      Implementation Completion Report
MARA         -      Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs
M&E          -      Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS          -      Management Information System
PPAR         -      Project Performance Audit Report
SACP         -      Second Agricultural Credit Project
SAR          -      Staff Appraisal Report
TCZB         -      Agricultural Bank
TKK          -      Agricultural Credit Cooperatives



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Implementation Completion Report
Turkey
Third Agricultural Credit Project
Loan No. 3090-TU
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface                                                                               i
Evaluation Summary                                                                ii-vi
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
A.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives                                              1
B.  Achievement of Objectives                                                       3
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project                                             6
D.  Project Sustainability                                                          6
E.  Bank Performance                                                                7
F.  Borrower Performance                                                            9
G.  Assessment of Outcome                                                           9
H.  Future Operation                                                               10
I.   Key Lessons Learned                                                           10
J.   Program Objective Categories                                                  11
Part II: Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 8C:  Calculation of Project Cost (Medium- and Long-terrm Lending, in Current
Prices)
Table 8D:  Calculation of Project Cost (Medium- and Long-tern Lending, in US Dollar
Prices)
Table 8E:  Calculation of Project Cost (Short-term Lending, in Current Prices)
Table 8F:  Calculation of Project Cost (Short-term Lending, in US Dollar Prices)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions
Annexes
Annex 1:  Aide Memoire of Implementation Completion Mission
Annex 2:   Plan of Operation
Annex 3:   Summary of Borrower's Evaluation and Project Impact
Annex 4:   Comments by Borrower on Draft Implementation Completion Report
Map



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN NO. 3090-TUI
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Agricultural Credit
Project (the Project) in Turkey, for which loan 3090-TU in the amount of US$250 million
equivalent was approved on June 15, 1989 and made effective on November 6, 1989.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1993, compared with the original closing date
of June 30, 1993. An amount of US$70.7 million, constituting the balance of the credit
component at that time was cancelled in June 1992 on the basis of non-compliance with
interest rate covenants. Final disbursement under the institutional development component
took place on December 28, 1993. Cofinancing for the Project was provided by the
Overseas Economic Development Fund of Japan in the amount of US$250 million.
The ICR was prepared by the Agriculture and Environment Operations Division,
Country Department I of the Europe and Central Asia Region. Preparation of this ICR was
begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in February 1994 and continued during the
completion mission in August 1994. It is based on material in the project file and data
collected by that mission. The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing
views reflected in the mission's aide memoire (Annex 1), preparing its own evaluation of the
Project's execution and initial preparation (a summary of this evaluation is contained in
Annex 3) and by commenting on the draft ICR (Annex 4).






ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.   Introduction. The Third Agricultural Credit Project in Turkey (the Project) was
appraised in November 1986, post-appraised in August 1988 and approved by the Bank's
Board in June 1989. Project cost was US$1,226.5 million toward which the Bank provided a
loan of US$250 million equivalent. The borrower was the Republic of Turkey. The
implementing agency was the Agricultural Bank (TCZB). Cofinancing was provided by the
Overseas Economic Development Fund of Japan in the amount of US$250 million. The loan
was closed on December 31, 1993, compared with the original closing date of June 30,
1993. An amount of US$70.7 million was cancelled in June 1992. As of July 31, 1994, an
amount of US$22.6 million of the Japanese cofmancing was undisbursed.
ii.   Project Objectives. The Project objectives were: (i) to further strengthen the
institutional capabilities of TCZB and the credit operations of the Agricultural Credit
Cooperatives (TKK); and (ii) to increase farm productivity and farmers' income through
expanded access to agricultural credit and the financing of productive investments at the farm
level. Related to the institutional development objective was the strengthening of TCZB's
financial position. Related to the objective of expanding access to agricultural credit was the
aim of having the project operate in about one third of the country's provinces to meet the
full requirements of farmers and to reach creditworthy farmers previously without access to
institutional credit.
iii.   At the time of appraisal in 1987 and subsequently, financial sector reform was an
important part of the Bank's country assistance strategy. In support of this objective, the
Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL II) included a floating tranche of US$100
million for the restructuring of state-owned banks. However, for TCZB the Bank accepted a
more gradual approach to restructuring and thus institutional development covenants in the
Project did not provide for full restructuring. Because the Government of Turkey (GOT) had
made capital infusions into TCZB, it requested in 1991 utilization of US$97 million of the
FSAL floating tranche for this purpose. However, the restructuring plan of TCZB did not
satisfy the Bank because it was not based on a portfolio as required. A revised restructuring
plan was prepared by TCZB but not discussed with the Bank. The floating tranche was
cancelled at closing of the FSAL II on December 31, 1992.
iv.   In general, the Project objectives were clear and realistic. They were quite
demanding on TCZB's technical capabilities but set out precise action plans and operational
details for their attainment. They were also important for the sector strategy both in the
agriculture and financial sectors.
v.    Achievement of Objectives. Sector policy objectives were only partially achieved,
while financial, institutional development, and physical objectives were substantially
achieved. An agriculture sector policy objective was to bring about sub-loan interest rates
that were positive in real terms. Protracted negotiations brought about an agreement on



iii
interest rate covenants and some up-front action on increasing some rates. The Project
formulated three interest rate covenants: (i) the weighted average sub-loan interest rate would
have to be positive in real terms by March 1990, (ii) all sub-loan interest rates were to be
positive by March 1991, and (iii) there should be a spread for TCZB on all its loans that
would cover all lending-related costs by September 30, 1991. It also introduced a review
mechanism to determine the adequacy of on-lending interest rates.
vi.   The main institutional objective that TCZB be strengthened financially by increasing
its net worth was achieved. TCZB strengthened its equity base through equity infusions from
GOT in the years 1989 and 1990 and thereafter through profits from lending to sales
cooperatives. This helped to meet the first covenant above. Interest rate covenants (ii) and
(iii) above were not met. Other institutional development objectives were substantially met.
vii.  Physical objectives as they relate to credit and to increasing farm productivity and
farmers' incomes through expanded access to agricultural credit were exceeded. TCZB made
more than 96,000 direct medium- and long-term investment loans, far more than the 40,000
investment loans envisaged at appraisal. It also made 1.5 million short-term loans. The
TKK made an additional 114,000 medium- and long-term and 560,000 short-term loans in
the Project area. In US dollar terms, the SAR projected Project costs of US$1,105 million
for investment and US$118 million for incremental short-term lending. Actual Project costs
were US$953 million, 86% of appraisal estimates.
viii. The design of the Project was appropriate for achieving the physical and financial
objectives. The design of the procedures for appraisal and supervision of sub-loans was
excellent and contributed substantially to the institutional improvements of TCZB and the
improvement of the quality of its portfolio. TCZB introduced the technical parameters
agreed on for the Project also in non-Project provinces.
ix.   Economic Rates of Returns (ERRs) and financial rates of return (FRRs) were
calculated for individual on-farm investments. The SAR stated that ERRs were expected to
be in the range from 17 to 71%, while FRRs were expected to be between 13 and 52%. A
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) exercise carried out by TCZB on a representative sample
of 198 medium- and long-term loans was not completed as of late 1994. Preliminary results
of the aggregated data on financial viability for investment lending indicate that of 14 types
of investment under review, two had FRRs under the required level of 12%. The remainder
achieved FRR rates ranging from 13% for a combine harvester to 60% for a 20-cow
breeding unit. Economic analysis for the aggregate models from the M&E exercise was not
completed by late 1994.
x.    Major Factors Affecting the Project. The implementation phase of the Project
beginning in 1989 was affected by macro-economic policies aimed at returning to sustainable
macro-economic balances and bringing inflation under control. Encouraging progress in the
attempts to bring inflation under control thereafter was reversed when the Gulf crisis broke
out. Policy changes, persistent inflation and exchange rate volatility contributed to the



iv
uncertainty facing sub-borrowers. Inflation stubbornly persisted at high levels around 60%.
The exchange rate development was along similar lines with the TL depreciating from an
average in 1989 of TL 2,121 to TL 10,986 in 1993. Other negative influences were the
extensive drought in 1989, regional droughts in 1990, and civil unrest in the eastern and
south-eastern provinces which disturbed agricultural activities.
xi.   Project Sustainability. Some aspects of the Project are sustainable while others are
not. GOT and implementing agency commitment to carry out the Project in accordance with
the agreements remained strong, with the exception of a reluctance to address vigorously
agricultural support policy and interest rate issues. In terms of TCZB's financial viability the
Project appears to be sustainable. Its ratio of net worth to average assets reached 14.8% by
the end of 1993. TCZB has become a stronger bank in all respects. The Project is also
sustainable from the on-farm development aspect. Farmers have greatly benefitted from the
investments made under the Project as planned and have developed a sense of financial
discipline often lacking in other developing countries. Strong loan supervision efforts by
TCZB minimized the misallocation of funds usually expected in cases of interest rate
distortions. The Project objective of creating a revolving fund to finance the same real value
of loans after repayment by farmers until repayment by TCZB to GOT did not materialize.
TL 100 disbursed by GOT to TCZB in 1989 had a real value of TL 58 when repaid at the
end of 1993.
xii.   Bank Performance. The Bank's performance at preparation and appraisal was
satisfactory. Bank missions which jointly appraised the Project with staff of the IBRD/FAO
Cooperative Program made strong efforts to convey technical knowledge and generate
commitment to the Project. The design of the Project was complex and TCZB potential to
implement such a complex and demanding program was adequately assessed. Major Project
risks were clearly assessed to be in high inflation and economic disequilibrium. Commitment
to the package of reforms that GOT had agreed to undertake to reduce the budget deficit and
bring inflation under control was diluted in the years during Project implementation as a
result of the Gulf crisis. The recurring financial crisis at the beginning of 1994 led to a
stronger and more efficient economic reform program that also attempted to address the
costly agricultural subsidy system. Bank performance during implementation was
satisfactory. Supervision missions were fielded at regular intervals twice per year, staff
continuity was maintained and the relationship of the Bank staff with the Treasury and
implementing agency staff was excellent. GOT and TCZB maintain that the Bank should
have been more flexible on interest rates, rather than threatening suspension and thus forcing
GOT to cancel undisbursed loan amounts when interest rate covenants were not met. In fact,
the Bank made substantial efforts to maintain this dialogue in the presence of a deteriorating
economic situation. Efforts by the Bank were not successful in convincing policy-making
levels in GOT that strong macro-economic action was needed to support and complement the
credit program.
xiii. Borrower Performance. Performance in meeting the Project's major covenants was
generally satisfactory, with the significant exception of the loan covenants on interest rates



V
which was inadequate. GOT's performance in implementing financial policies vis-a-vis
TCZB was satisfactory. The required equity contributions were provided and the
arrangements regarding payment of TCZB claims for duty losses from loans to sales
cooperatives were implemented over time as required. The performance of TCZB in
reaching its institutional objectives was satisfactory, and its major institutional development
objectives were achieved. The performance of both TCZB and the Central Union of
Agricultural Cooperation in reaching the physical objectives was satisfactory, as most targets
were exceeded. Fellowships funded under the Project proved beneficial. The performance of
Project consultants was satisfactory. Project M&E appears to be adequate, although the final
results were not yet available late 1994. The major covenants related to institutional
development and financial strength of TCZB were complied with, except for the interest rate
covenants.
xiv.  Assessment of Outcome and Future Operation. All major institutional development
objectives were achieved, while the objectives related to agricultural interest rates were only
partially achieved. Cancellation of the $70.7 million due to non-compliance on interest rate
covenants was a negative factor. The on-farm development impact relating to achievement of
returns on investment is expected to be positive overall in accordance with preliminary M&E
results. Taking all of these factors into account, the project is rated as satisfactory. A plan
of operation for the Project's future operation has been agreed with GOT, MARA, the Union
and TCZB, and is outlined in Annex 2.
xv.   Key Lessons Learned. TCZB's ultimate viability continues to depend on GOT's
willingness and ability to implement economic reforms and compensate TCZB for loan losses
resulting from agricultural support measures. This has involved a combination of guarantees
and equity contributions to TCZB.
xvi.  Negative interest rates distort resource allocation. In a highly inflationary economy
like Turkey farmers consider investments in agricultural machinery and livestock as the best
means to safeguard the value of their money. If loans are made at negative real interest
rates, farmers are inclined to make investments which they otherwise would not have made.
If this is to be minimized, close supervision at the local level is required.
xvii. World Bank resources can effectively support policy changes. Although the Bank's
contribution to TCZB's short-term lending program was limited in terms of filling a resource
gap, it was important as an incentive to revise TCZB's policies for short-term credit lending.
xviii. Rural credit can be an effective means to support efficient agricultural production in a
less-than-ideal institutional and financial environment. Available channels may be less than
ideal. There was no other effective way to reach the farm sector than through the state-
owned TCZB.
xix.  The partial appraisal of TCZB at the appraisal stage which limited itself to TCZB's
agricultural operations in combination with appraisal of its overall financial position proved



vi
to be sufficient. A full appraisal of all TCZB activities likely would have added little to
project achievements.
xx.   Negative real interest rates contribute to erosion of the financial institutions' capital
base. In the context of this Project, the GOT will not recover the real value of funds on-lent
to TCZB. Sound overall financial policies would have added to the success of this project.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
Project Objectives
A.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.01 The Project objectives as summarized in the Loan Agreement were: (i) to further
strengthen the institutional capabilities of TCZB and the credit operations of the Agricultural
Credit Cooperatives (TKK)'; and (ii) to increase farm productivity and farmers' income
through expanded access to agricultural credit and the financing of productive investments at
the farm level. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) provides further details. Related to the
institutional development objectives were the strengthening of TCZB's financial position
through supporting arrangements that would increase its equity, settling its claims to
Govemment, and improving its ratio of net worth to average total assets. It was intended
that TCZB would be able to take the appropriate measures concerning provisioning and
write-offs through further analysis of its portfolio of overdue agricultural loans and equity
portfolio. Related to the objective of expanding access to agricultural credit was the aim of
having the Project operate in 45 of the country's 67 provinces, thereby reaching creditworthy
farmers previously without access to institutional credit. This was intended through a two-
pronged approach: TCZB would make loans directly to individual farmer beneficiaries and
to TKKs which in turn would make loans to their members, both for short-term loans for
production inputs and medium- and long-term loans for small investments. Because the
number of provinces in Turkey during project implementation increased from 67 to 76
through administrative reorganization, the number of project provinces also increased from
45 to 52. The institutional development objectives were designed on the basis of the lessons
learned from the Second Agricultural Credit Project (SACP, Loan 2318-TU): TCZB's
appraisal and lending processes were to be sufficiently flexible to accommodate rapid price
changes in an inflationary economy.
1.02 As described in the SAR, the Project was to: (i) maintain the momentum in the
institutional development of TCZB, including organizational and procedural measures and
improvements in TCZB's financial position through analysis of its loan and equity portfolio;
(ii) reach agreement with Government on equity contributions and a spread for TCZB that
would cover all lending-related costs; and (iii) help fill TCZB's resource gap in a three-year
time slice that was projected to cumulate to US$1.2 billion in the years 1989-91.
1.03 At the time of appraisal in 1987 and post-appraisal in 1988, financial sector reform
was an important part of the Bank's country assistance strategy. This manifested itself in the
Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL II, Loan No. 2964-TU) for which the
1/ The primary TKK constitute the grass-root level of the cooperative system. They are controlled by 16
regional cooperatives and the Central Union of Agricultural Credit Cooperatives (the Union) in Ankara. TCZB
determines in discussions with the Union the policy framework for the lending activities of the TKK and
determines also the monetary limits for TKK members within the resources available from TCZB for lending
purposes.



2
Letter of Development Policy was agreed in March 1988 and became effective in June 1988.
It contained covenants regarding: (i) the strengthening of the banking system through the
introduction of prudential regulations that required specified levels of equity and provisions
for bad debts, establishment of a mechanism to restructure insolvent banks and action
programs to restructure state-owned banks; and (ii) improvement in the interest rate
structure, including an increase in preferential lending rates to positive levels in real terms.
1.04 The objectives defined in the area of institutional development of TCZB, though
complex and encompassing in nature, did not include a full restructuring of TCZB as
specified in an annex to the FSAL II agreements. TCZB carries out a number of tasks for
GOT related to agricultural sector policy objectives, i.e., being the executing agency for the
support price system operated through the agricultural sales cooperatives, and to carrying out
banking functions for GOT, i.e., payment of pensions and salaries for civil servants,
collection of fees on behalf of GOT, etc. The restructuring program mentioned in the SAR
(para 3.17) started in 1988 as a step by step approach, rather than a radical program that
would have clearly separated all commercial banking functions from those related to carrying
out GOT programs. This approach was accepted at the time of appraisal. Covenants were
limited to financial strengthening and the continuation of organizaticnal and human resource
development. This decision was in line with the Bank's policy at the time which required
only the appraisal of agriculture-related activities in banks functioning as outlets for
agricultural credit. Full appraisal of such banks was later proposed in the 1988 task force
report on financial intermediation that resulted in the 1992 Operational Directive OD 8.30.
1.05 There was an understanding between the Bank and GOT that the proceeds of the
floating tranche from FSAL II should be used for the restructuring of smaller state-owned
banks, not for the restructuring of TCZB. However, inasmuch as GOT had made capital
infusions only into TCZB and had no other state-owned banks to claim funds from the
floating tranche, it requested utilization of US$97 million of the floating tranche of US$100
million against the capital infusion in TCZB. TCZB had not based its restructuring plan
required by the Central Bank on a full audit in accordance with internationally accepted
auditing principles and internationally accepted accounting standards. The full portfolio audit
was undertaken and the report provided to the Bank some time after the restructuring plan
was submitted to the Bank as justification for this requested use of funds. The restructuring
plan did not satisfy the Bank and a revision was requested based on findings of the loan
portfolio audit. The revised restructuring plan was prepared by TCZB but not provided to
the Bank. The floating tranche of the FSAL II was cancelled after its closing date of
December 31, 1992.
1.06 In general, Project objectives were clear and realistic. While quite demanding of
TCZB's technical capabilities, they set out precise action plans and operational details for
attainment. They were also important for sectoral strategies in agriculture and finance. The
importance for the agricultural sector grew from the fact that all medium-term lending by
TCZB for financing of on-farm investment was to a large extent incremental -- TCZB had
only very limited funds for investment lending -- and thus contributed to making the



3
agricultural sector more efficient and productive. They were important for the financial
sector because any strengthening of the largest bank in the sector in its institutional
development had a measurable direct impact on the performance of the entire sector.
Implementation Experience and Results
B.  Achievement of Objectives
2.01 The attainment of objectives can be summarized as follows: (i) there were no
macroeconomic objectives in the Project; (ii) sector policy objectives were partially
achieved; (iii) financial and institutional development objectives were substantially achieved.
An agriculture sector policy objective was to bring about positive sub-loan interest rates.
The SACP had failed to reach this objective. It was incorporated in the Project as being of
paramount importance and because, due to the decrease of inflation in 1986 to its lowest
level in years, there was a realistic expectation that it would be achieved. At the time when
the Project went to the Board in May 1989 -- the processing had been held up after appraisal
in November of 1986 because TCZB and GOT had not taken any action on the interest rate
issue -- inflation was on the rise again. It was decided to go forward after having reached an
agreement on the interest rate issue satisfactory to both sides. This was reached in May
1989 in meetings between the Treasury, TCZB and the Bank's Resident Mission after
negotiations in Washington in November 1988 had failed to reach such agreement. It
contained up-front action on increasing the interest rate for farm mechanization sub-loans and
limiting access to the lowest interest rate of 34% p.a. Additionally, the Project formulated
three interest rate covenants: (i) the weighted average sub-loan interest rate would have to be
positive in real terms by March 1990; (ii) all sub-loan interest rates were to be positive by
March 1991; and (iii) by September 30, 1991 there should be a spread for TCZB on all loans
that would cover all lending-related costs. A review mechanism was introduced to determine
the adequacy of on-lending interest rates.
2.02 An overriding institutional objective of the Project was that TCZB be strengthened
financially by increasing its net worth through equity infusions by GOT, and, over time,
build up reserves from profits. This goal was reached although the Project sub-loans did not
contribute to this achievement. TCZB strengthened its equity base through equity infusions
from GOT in 1989 and 1990 and thereafter from increased profits through lending to sales
cooperatives at interest rates always well above inflation rates. TCZB used the relatively
high lending rate to sales cooperatives to offset losses from that part of the portfolio lent out
at negative real interest rates. Since the lending rate to sales cooperatives was incorporated
in the weighted average rate, the first covenant above (para. 2.01) was met. TCZB
maintained that its financial viability was not jeopardized as long as this was the case. The
other two interest rate covenants were not met, despite a definition of positivity based on the
formula used under the FSAL agreements that included the WPI month- over-month index
for the previous 12 months with a weight of 50% and GOT's inflation projection with a 50%
weight. GOT and TCZB were unable to agree to covenant-required interest rate increases



4
necessary to offset rising inflation rates. The required annual report on the adequacy of
interest rates was prepared twice during the second and the third years of Project
implementation, with considerable delays. Because of the delays, it proved ineffective as a
management tool and was allowed to lapse thereafter.
2.03 Objectives related to increased farm productivity and farmers' incomes through
expanded access to agricultural credit and the financing of productive investments at the farm
level were exceeded. TCZB made more than 96,000 direct medium- and long-term
investment loans, far more than the 40,000 investment loans envisaged at appraisal. It also
made 1.5 million short-term loans. The TKK made an additional 114,000 medium- and
long-term and 560,000 short-term loans in the Project area (Annex 2: Plan for Project
Operation after Closing Date on December 31, 1993).
2.04 More than 210,000 investment loans were made valued at TL 2,675 billion in current
terms, equivalent to TL 1,538 bilion in constant 1989 prices. The value of medium- and
long-term lending represents about 55% of investment cost, the balance being investors'
equity contribution. Taking this into account, total investment cost during the Project period
was TL 4,875 billion in current terms. This compares to TL 3,023 billion in current terms
projected in the SAR. For short-term lending, TL 362 billion in current terms,
corresponding to TL 218 biUion in constant terms, would be added. In US dollar terms, the
SAR projected Project costs of US$1,105 million for investment (US$933 million for direct
loans and US$172 million for loans to TKK members) and US$118 million for incremental
short-term lending (US$62 million for direct loans and US$56 million for loans to TKK
members). Actual Project costs were US$953 million, 86% of appraisal estimates (Tables 8
and 8A-D). The difference is the result of cancellation of US$70.7 million in 1992. The
96,000 direct investment sub-loans had average investment costs of US$7,814, financed by
sub-loans of US$4,267 on average. Lending to the TKK was largely for small loans. The
114,000 medium- and long-term sub-loans had average investment cost of US$1,780 and an
average loan size of US$938. The average size for short-term loans in the US dollar terms
was US$2,893 for loans to individual farmers and US$2,400 for loans made by the TKK.
For short-term loans, farmers had to make substantial equity contributions because TCZB, in
the face of hyper-inflation, was unable to provide resources sufficient to cover the full input
needs of farmers. No data are available to calculate this equity contribution.
2.05 The design of the Project was appropriate for achieving these economic and financial
objectives. The design of procedures for appraisal and supervision of sub-loans was
excellent and contributed substantialy to institutional strengthening of TCZB and
improvement of portfolio quality. Despite the limitation of the Project area to 45 (and later
52) provinces, TCZB introduced agreed technical parameters in aUl other provinces. In this
sense, the Project had a geographical impact that went wel beyond original objectives.
2.06 Financial objectives were to improve TCZB's financial position, both in terms of a
net worth as percentage of average assets and provisions for bad debts that were in line with
prudential regulations issued by the Central Bank. All financial objectives were achieved,



5
i.e., TCZB built up its equity to more than the required levels and complied with all
prudential regulations, with certain exemptions from the provisioning decree. These
exemptions were granted to TCZB on grounds that loans to defaulting farmers should go into
legal follow-up only one year after the payment due date because debt service capability was
often impeded by crop failures from drought, flooding and other vagaries of nature.
2.07 Other institutional development objectives were substantially met. The action plan
was fully implemented with the exception of the studies regarding: (i) the analysis of the
equity portfolio; and (ii) the analysis of TCZB's portfolio in arrears. The former analysis
was not applicable after TCZB's Board decided in 1989 to sell off all participations through
the Public Administration Fund. Exempted from the divestiture were participations in the
insurance business which was considered an important link to the banking business. The
analysis of arrears was not undertaken by a task force as requested, but through a portfolio
analysis by TCZB's external auditors. However, TCZB's Management did not agree in all
respects to the findings and recommendations of the auditors. It stated that there was no
need for additional provisions because loans to sales cooperatives were fully covered by GOT
guarantees for which the auditors claimed was not sufficient evidence on file. In retrospect,
both parties were correct. GOT did indeed honor even those guarantees for which there was
no written confirmation on file. However, the inadequate provisions for these overdues were
not in conformity with internationally accepted accounting standards and the auditors
therefore had no choice but to qualify their audit statements. The fellowship program
designed by TCZB's Chief Technical Advisor was part of the action plan and was carried out
in the second half of 1993. It consisted of six study tours by TCZB staff in various
departments. All tours were considered by the participants as extremely useful.
2.08 No economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated for the total Project. However,
ERRs and financial rates of return (FRRs) were calculated for individual on-farm
investments. The SAR stated that ERRs were expected to be in the range of 17 to 71%,
while FRRs were expected to be between 13 and 52%. An M&E exercise carried out by
TCZB on a representative sample of 198 medium- and long-term loans was not completed by
late 1994. Preliminary results of aggregated data on financial viability for investment
lending (using two monitoring runs for 28 farmers and one for 170 farmers) indicate that of
14 types of investment under review, two came out with FRRs under the required level of
12%. These are egg production with an FRR of -4%  and a 10-head dairy unit with 1%.
The poultry investment was adversely affected by declining prices due to loss of export
markets after the Gulf War. In the case of the dairy investment, the investment cost includes
construction of stables for cattle, an investment that cannot be supported by a small herd of
ten animals. The remainder achieved FRR rates ranging from 13% for a combine harvester
to 60% for a 20-cow breeding unit. Four individual models prepared by TCZB's Project
Evaluation Department for farm operations visited during the completion mission also show
satisfactory FRRs: 35% and 29% for two 18-head livestock breeding farms, 48% for an
investment in a deep-well with electric pump, and 52% for a plastic greenhouse for flower
production on 0.55 ha. Economic models for three individual farms show ERRs of 35% for
a cotton farm investing in a tractor, of 59% for a citrus farm producing lemon and 17% for a



6
citrus farm producing tangerines, both based on calculations for 0.1 ha units. Some 1,347
beneficiaries of TCZB short-term loans were included in the M&E exercise. The SAR
estimated that the cost/benefit ratios for ten representative crops would range from 1.3 to
3.5.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Proiect
3.01 The implementation phase of the Project was affected by macro-economic policies
aimed at returning to sustainable macro-economic balances and bringing inflation under
control. Frequent policy changes, continued inflation and exchange rate variability
contributed to the uncertainty facing sub-borrowers. The SAR stated (para 3.08) that the
inflation rate as measured by the WPI at the end of each year reached a low of 28% in 1986
and accelerated to 48.9% in 1987 and 69.6% in 1988. During implementation, there was
encouraging progress through the first half of 1990. This was reversed when the Gulf crisis
contributed to the deteriorating economic situation in the second half of 1990 and in 1991.
Inflation persisted at high levels: 62.3% at the end of 1989, 48.6% for 1990, 59.2% for
1991, 61.4% for 1992, and 60.3% for 1993. The exchange rate development was along
similar lines, the average for 1989 was TL 2,121 for one US dollar, in 1990 it stood at TL
2,608, in 1991 at TL 4,170, in 1992 at TL 6,888, and in 1993 at TL 10,986.
3.02 The Gulf War had serious negative consequences on Turkey's exports and strong
influence on agricultural returns through restricted export markets and increases in domestic
costs. The backflow of funds from farmers to TCZB was strongly impacted by inflation: TL
100 paid out in 1989 had a real value very substantially less at the end of 1993.
3.03 Other negative influences were the extensive drought in 1989 and regional droughts in
1990. Bad harvests reduced loan recovery rates and forced GOT to declare loan
rescheduling in disaster areas. The eastem and south-eastern provinces were negatively
affected in the last years of Project implementation through civil unrest which disturbed
agricultural activities.
3.04 TCZB's intention to divest itself of its participations was hampered by lack of
capacity in the Public Investment Administration (PIA) to deal with these cases. Although
investments were initially offered to the PIA, TCZB then retained the assets which were
transferred from "equity participations" in the balance sheet to "other assets".
D. Project Sustainability
4.01  Some aspects of the Project are sustainable while others are not. GOT and
implementing agency commitment to carry out the Project in accordance with the agreements
remained throughout the implementation phase, with the exception of a reluctance to address
vigorously the politically sensitive issues of agricultural support policy and interest rates.
These commitments are likely to carry on through the operational phase. The commitment
for policy change, as assessed eight months after the Closing Date or 24 months after the



7
date of cancellation of the remaining credit funds, is also there. But prospects for action
remain uncertain. After the closing, TCZB's Board decided to introduce a system of less
fragmented interest rates consisting of three rates: A rate for short-term loans of 60%; a rate
for investment loans of 70%; and a rate for sales cooperatives for marketing purposes of
118%. As of September 1994, only the 118% rate has been made effective while the two
other rates were planned for introduction later in the year.
4.02 All sub-loan amounts disbursed are being recovered in nominal terms. The recovery
percentage in 1993 was 88%. It is expected by TCZB that at least 88% of the unrecovered
amount will be recovered with the dues of 1994. Amounts unrecovered one year after due
date are subject to legal action with the possibility of foreclosure against collateral.
Recovery against overdues under legal follow-up for medium- and long-term loans was 26%
in 1989 and increased steadily to 52% in 1993. TCZB does not entertain write-offs.
4.03 In terms of TCZB's financial viability the Project appears to be sustainable. Its ratio
of net worth to average assets, covenanted to reach 6% at the end of 1991, reached 12.2%
by the required date and 14.8% by the end of 1993. The ratio of net worth to risk-weighted
assets reached 25% in 1993. TCZB has become a stronger bank in all respects. Its business
carried out on behalf of GOT is subject to precise regulations and carries full GOT
guarantees if it involves lending activities to sales cooperatives for the procurement of
agricultural commodities at support prices or payment of direct subsidy to farmers. TCZB
benefitted from the technical knowledge provided through appraisal, supervision and
monitoring of its lending activities. Its various credit departments and its Project Evaluation
Department are capable to deal with potential follow-on projects.
4.04 The Project is also sustainable from the on-farm development aspect. Farmers have
greatly benefitted from investments made under the Project and have developed a sense of
financial discipline often lacking in other developing countries. Strong loan supervision
efforts by TCZB minimized the misallocation of funds usually expected in cases of interest
rate distortions. The PPAR findings for the SACP that 'there is little evidence of significant
credit substitution of diversion on the farms" is also valid for this Project despite the
significant increase in lending activities.
4.05 The Project objective of creating a revolving fund to finance the same real value of
loans after repayment by farmers until repayment by TCZB to GOT did not materialike. The
weighted average interest rate on Project loans was usually less than inflation rates (although
positive in real terms on loans to sales cooperatives which were not financed by the Project).
Thus, TL 100 disbursed by GOT to TCZB in 1989 would have a real value of TL 58 when
repaid at the end of 1993.
E.  Bank Performance
5.01 Bank performance at preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. Bank missions
staffed with Bank staff and staff from the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program at that stage



8
worked effectively with TCZB and TKK. Close cooperation continued in the preparation of
working papers for the Project, thus conveying technical knowledge and generating
commitment to the Project. During preparation and appraisal the Bank fielded numerous
missions with all necessary expertise, e.g., financial analyst, economist, institutional
specialist, training specialist, agriculturist, frequently supplemented by visits by middle-level
managers. The Project was more complex than that of the SACP, but TCZB potential to
implement such a demanding program was correctly assessed.
5.02 Main Project risks were correctly assessed to be in high inflation and economic
disequilibrium. Commitment to the package of reforms that GOT had agreed to undertake to
reduce the budget deficit and bring inflation under control was diluted in the years during
Project implementation as a result of the Gulf crisis. The recurring financial crisis at the
beginning of 1994 led to a stronger and more efficient economic reform program that also
attempted to address the costly agricultural subsidy system. Renewed inflation appears to
have had relatively little effect on demand for credit, nor did it influence negatively the
repayment discipline of farmers. It was correctly predicted that in the institutional
development of TCZB would continue. The intensive discussions regarding institutional
development of TCZB and the TKK during preparation and appraisal were continued
throughout implementation and produced positive results.
5.03 Bank performance during implementation was satisfactory. Supervision missions
were fielded at regular intervals twice per year, staff continuity was maintained and the
relationship of the Bank staff with the Treasury and implementing agency staff was excellent.
The supervision effort would have benefitted from having an agriculturist or agricultural
economist more frequently available to strengthen the M&E exercise. This happened only
once because of staff constraints.
5.04 GOT and TCZB maintain that the Bank should have been more flexible on interest
rates, rather than threatening suspension (follow-up letter on Country Implementation and
Strategy Review of April 20, 1992) and thus forcing GOT to cancel undisbursed loan
amounts when interest rate covenants were not met. In fact, the Bank made substantial
efforts to keep the dialogue going in the presence of a deteriorating economic situation.
Treasury indicated that in 1991 and 1992, when the covenants were to be implemented, GOT
was not ready to make fundamental changes in agricultural support policies and that dealing
with interest rates alone would have been a partial, ineffective reform measure. Readiness to
address the costly agricultural incentives policy in a comprehensive package of measures has
evolved in the last three years when it became evident that the support policies were not
sustainable and that interest rates were not an appropriate vehicle for income distribution.
Efforts were not successful in convincing policy-making levels in GOT that strong macro-
economic action was needed to support and complement the credit program.



9
F. Borrower Performance
6.01 The performance of GOT and the implementing agencies was highly satisfactory in
some aspects, satisfactory in others and deficient in some. GOT's and TCZB's performance
in meeting the loan covenants on interest rates was inadequate. GOT's performance in
implementing financial policies vis-a-vis TCZB was satisfactory. Required equity
contributions were provided and the arrangements regarding payment of TCZB claims for
duty losses from loans to sales cooperatives were implemented over time as required. TCZB
implemented its financial policies in a satisfactory manner, e.g., it strengthened its equity
base and introduced external auditors in 1988 for a partial audit and thereafter for full
financial audits. Performance of TCZB in reaching its institutional objectives was highly
satisfactory. The Union performed satisfactorily, although only about half of the TKK's
were eligible in the last few years to participate in the Project. The performance of both
TCZB and the Union in reaching the lending objectives was highly satisfactory, as most
targets were exceeded. The quality of Project management by TCZB in general was good.
Efforts by the Foreign Operations Department and the General Credit Department were
highly satisfactory. The performance of Project consultants was satisfactory: they helped to
improve TCZB's internal auditing system, its computer-based personnel management system,
and its MIS. Project M&E appears to be adequate, although final results were not yet
available in late 1994.
6.02 The major covenants related to institutional development and financial strength of
TCZB. Although compliance with the interest rate covenants was deficient, compliance with
other covenants was satisfactory.
G.  Assessment of Outcome
7.01 The Project achieved most of its major objectives and realized satisfactory
development results. It is rated as satisfactory, although the 1992 cancellation of $70.7
million due to non-compliance with interest rate covenants is a negative factor. All
institutional development objectives were achieved; objectives related to agricultural interest
rates were only partially achieved. TCZB emerged as a stronger financial institution in
several areas. It commands a much better financial position in terms of net worth and
quality of its loan portfolio. Organizationally, it improved significantly its lending
procedures and emerged with a well qualified cadre of staff in its four agricultural credit
departments. Improvement in the MIS came with the further computerization of branches.
TCZB's personnel data system was upgraded to a more adequate computer-based status.
However, a major innovation introduced in 1988 - the transfer of its staff from civil service
to contract status -- was reversed in 1993 by the constitutional court. The TKK strengthened
their position organizationally and financially and increased their share in the agricultural
credit system of the country. Objectives related to sub-loans made were exceeded. The on-
farm production and economic impact from investment is expected to be positive overall in
accordance with preliminary M&E results.



10
H.  Future OQprat
8.01 A plan of future operation for the Project has been agreed with GOT, MARA, the
Union and TCZB. It contains the arrangements on how the backflows of funds to TCZB will
be used in lending for similar purposes until all Bank funds have been repaid to GOT as
specified in the legal agreements. Details are in Annex 2.
8.02 In terms of institutional development, one of TCZB's main objectives was to further
strengthen its financial position. An operating objective is to reach positive interest rates and
full coverage of all lending-related costs as soon as feasible. A program for new macro-
economic stabilization was put in place by the GOT in April 1994 and TCZB's Board
subsequently decided on a substantial increase in interest rates. The decision was approved
by GOT. The rate increase has been implemented for loans to sales cooperatives and is to be
put into effect later for all other loans. Lending to TKK will continue to be governed by the
protocol between TCZB and the Union. It has been agreed that: (i) more flexibility in the
eligibility criteria for TKK should be introduced by allowing deviations in areas which have
been declared disaster areas by GOT; and (ii) credit limits available to members of TKK
should reflect a more pronounced difference between eligible and ineligible TKK, within the
resources available to TCZB. This would be done in the form of a supplement to the
protocol. Technical consultations with MARA will continue to be governed by its protocol
with TCZB.
8.03 Optimum timing for a future impact evaluation by OED would be one to two years
after the M&E exercise for the Project investments has been completed.
I. Key Lessons Learned
9.01 TCZB's ultimate viability continues to depend on GOT's willingness and ability to
implement economic reforms and to compensate TCZB for loan losses resulting from
agricultural support measures. This has involved a combination of guarantees and equity
contributions to TCZB.
9.02 Negative interest rates distort resource allocation. In a highly inflationary economy
like Turkey farmers consider investments in agricultural machinery and livestock as the best
means to safeguard the value of their money. If loans are made at negative real interest
rates, farmers are inclined to make investments which they otherwise would not have made,
e.g., buy an uneconomically-large tractor for a small farm. If resource allocations are to be
minimized, close supervision at the local level is required.
9.03 World Bank resources can effectively support policy changes. Although the Bank's
contribution to TCZB's short-term lending program was limited in terms of filling a resource
gap, it was important as an incentive to revise TCZB's policies for short-term credit lending.



11
9.04 Rural credit can be an effective means to support efficient agricultural production in a
less-than-ideal institutional and financial environment. Available channels may be less than
ideal. At the time of Project preparation there was no other way to reach the farm sector
than working with the state-owned TCZB. Only TCZB had the reach into rural areas and no
other bank had specialized knowledge of the agriculture sector. During Project
implementation its staff did an excellent job in seeking out viable on-farm investments,
appraising sub-loans, and supervising their utilization to ensure effective use. The Project
contributed to private sector development because loans were made only to private sector
farms. TCZB's status as a state-owned bank appears to have had little, if any, negative
impact on this contribution. Quality of management of participating financial institutions, as
opposed to ownership status, is an important consideration in the design of Bank-supported
credit projects.
9.05 The partial appraisal of TCZB limited to TCZB's agricultural operations, in
combination with appraisal of its financial position, proved to be adequate. A full appraisal
of all TCZB activities probably would have added little to Project achievements.
9.06 Negative real interest rates contribute to erosion of the financial institutions' capital
base. In the context of this Project, the GOT will not recover the real value of funds on-lent
to TCZB. Sound overall financial policies would have added to the success of this project.
J. Program Objective Categories
10.01 Although the Project had no program objectives, it made significant contributions to
poverty alleviation, environmental objectives and private sector development. As all sub-
loans had exclusively private sector beneficiaries, the Project contributed to private farm
sector efficiency by financing profitable investments in mechanization, livestock and other
agricultural development. It can be assumed that virtually all loans made by the TKK went
to beneficiaries below the relative poverty level which, measured as 30% of GNP per capita
(US$2,130 in 1993), is US$639 or US$3,834 for a family of six. The positive income effect
on farmers borrowing directly from TCZB farms is likely to be confirmed by M&E work.
Initial evidence is encouraging. The protocol between MARA and TCZB stipulated the tasks
of the extension service, including guidance to farmers on the use of fertilizers and
pesticides. This protocol was faithfully executed and supportive of environmental objectives.






13
Part II:  Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives
Objectives         Substantial      Partial      Negligible      Not Applicable
Macro Policies                                                   X
Sector Policies                     X
Financial                          X
Objectives
Institutional      X
Development
Physical Objectives  X
Poverty Reduction   X1
Gender Issues                                                    x
Other Social                                                     X
Objectives        l
Environmental                                                    X
Objectives        l
Public Sector      XI
Management        l
Private Sector     XI
Development       l
Other (specify)                                                  X
B. Project Sustainability
Likely                     Unlikely                  | Uncertain
I                          I x
None of the three program categories was specified in the objectives, yet the
achievements were substantial.



14
C. Bank Performance
[ Performance           Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                               X
Preparation           X
Assistance
Appraisal             X                                                                  l
Supervision                                  X
D. Borrower Performance
Performance           Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory          | Deficient
Identification                               X
Preparation           X
Assistance
Appraisal             X
Supervision           X
E. Assessment of Outcome
Assessment       Highly              Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     | Highly
l__________________  Satisfactory   l              l                    I Unsatisfactory
_______I                            Ix             l .



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title         Purpose                      Year of    Status
.1                             Approval
Preceding Operations
1. Second Agricultural   Supported credit for on-farm  1984        Closed
Credit Project, loan 2318-   development to increase
TU                        agricultural production, raise
farmers' productivity and
incomes, and various other free-
standing agricultural projects,
and an action plan for
institutional development.
2. Agricultural Sector    Deepen, broaden and refine   1985        Closed
Adjustment Loan, 2585-TU   agricultural adjustment program
through agreed policy reforms
3. Agricultural Extension  Development and dissemination   1984    Closed
and Applied Research      of improved agricultural
Project, loan 2405-TU     technology to foster increased
productivity and agricultural
incomes
4. IAEE Irrigation Project,   Complete four irrigation  1984       Closed
loan 2433-TU              projects to increase agricultural
production and incomes and
expand rural employment
opportunities
5. Drainage and On-farm   Rehabilitation and improvement  1986     Closed
Development Project, loan   of drainage systems to increase
2663-TU                   agricultural production,
productivity and incomes
6. Agroindustry Project,    Expansion and modernization of  1989   Under
loan 3077-TU              agroindustry sector, improve             implemen-
capacity utilization, various           tation
fisheries surveys, pilot
marketing training program



16
Loan/Credit Title         Purpose                     j Year of   | Status
l _______________          ___________________     Approval
Following Operations
1. Agricultural Extension II  Increased productivity and  1990     Under
Project, loan 3177-TU     income through improving the             implemen-
flow of information and the              tation
transmission of relevant
l _________________________  technology                                       l
2. Agricultural Research  Institutional strengthening of  1992     Under
Project, loan 3472-TU     research and strengthening high-         implemen-
priority research programs               tation
3. Eastern Anatolia       Addresses rural poverty and  1993        Under
Watershed Project, loan   natural resource degradation             implemen-
3567-TU                   though a participatory approach          tation
to watershed rehabilitation
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle    |      Date Planned       |   Date Actual/Latest
_________________ l                                 |Estimate
Identification                                                06/85
Preparation                          02/86                    09/86
Appraisal                            04/86                    11/86
Post-appraisal             __08/88
Negotiations                        02/87                     11/88
Board Presentation                  04/87                     06/89
Signing                             06/87                     06/89
Effectiveness                        10/87                    11/89
Midterm review                       n.a.                     n.a.
(if applicable)
Project Completion                   12/92                    12/93
Loan Closing                         06/93                    12/93



17
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY90            FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94
Appraisal Estimate       78.0             138.0    207.0    243.0    250.0
Formally Revised Estimate'  --            --       178.7    179.3    179.3
Actual                   75.1             152.5    178.7    179.1    179.3
Actual as % of Estimate  96.3             110.5    100.0    99.9      100.0
Date of Final Disbursement                                            12/28/93
Cancellation in June 1992 of US$ 70.7 million.



18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation3
I. Key Indicators in SAR    Estimated             Actual
1. TCZB's ratio of net   6% for 1991               12.% for 1991
worth to average total                             14.8% for 1993
assets
2. Recovery of total dues   Normal credits to     In Project area 87.7% for 1993
(past dues at beginning of  individual farmers    In non-Project area ranging from
year plus current dues)  78.1%  in 1986            65.4% to 99% for 1993
Supervised credit to
individual farmers
68.4% in 1986
Credit to TKK members   75% to TKK members for 1993
3. Staff expenses to     4.4%                      6.9%
performing portfolio
4. Beneficiaries of      40,000                   210,000
medium- and long-term
loans
4. Beneficiaries of short-   170,000               2,052,000
term loans
II. Modified Indicators
1. Fellowship participants:  4 managers for skill gap    6 managers for study of organization,
analysis course;          program and system of management
development
6 instructors for training   5 instructors for training of trainers
of trainers
10 system analysts       6 staff from Planning and Budgeting
and Systems Analysis for courses in
MIS;
3/ OD 10.70, Project Monitoring and Evaluation and OD 13.05, Project Supervision, both
requiring that quantitative indicators of project performance be included identified and
evaluated were not yet published at the time of Board approval. This table therefore shows
as performance indicators those that are specified in the SAR and in the covenants.



19
I. Key Indicators in SAR    Estimated            Actual
not provided             12 staff from Credit and Systems
Analysis for courses in credit and
portfolio management
not provided            6 inspectors from Internal Audit for
courses in internal audit in place in
other banks
not provided            10 staff from branches and foreign
Operations for courses in branch
operations and design of training
programs
10 top graduates for    dropped from program
advanced training
HI. Other Indicators
1. Recovery of past dues  not available at appraisal   34.3% in 1989
under legal follow-up                            29.1% in 1990
24.2% in 1991
58.2% in 1992
44.9% in 1993



20
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No key indicators for project operation were defined in the SAR. Key indicators for
future operation are as follows:
1. TCZB to maintain ratio of net worth to average total assets of at least 6%
2. TCZB to continue lending to individual farmers for similar purposes
3. TCZB to continue lending to TKK in accordance with provisions of protocol with
Union of Agricultural Credit Cooperatives
4. TCZB to maintain recovery ratio of total dues of at least 75%



21
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study        Purpose as Defined at      Status at       Impact of Study
Appraisal            Appraisal
Analysis of     Reach decisions about    TCZB was          TCZB's Board
TCZB's          divestiture and/or making  burdened with   decided in 1989 to
portfolio of    adequate provisions for    large number of   sell off all equity
participations    loss-making enterprises    participations,  participations except
many of them     insurance
loss making      companies, therefore
study was not
undertaken
Analysis of     The objective of the study  Audit of TCZB's  Study was
TCZB's          was to reach agreement   financial         undertaken by
portfolio in    on measures needed to    statements was    independent auditors
arrears         improve recovery and to   undertaken by    and
make adequate provisions  GOT auditors    recommendations
until 1989       were made



22
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)    Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)'
Item             Local   Foreign    Total     Local     Foreign      Total
Costs    Costs               Costs      Costs
1. Production       87.5     30.4    117.9      43.5         45.1       88.6
Loans2                     ___
2. Investment      578.4    526.5   1,104.9    477.9        475.1      953.0
Loans
3. Institutional     0.6      3.1       3.7       0.6         3.1        3.7
Development                                                                  l
Total              666.5    560.0   1,226.5    522.0        523.3    1,045.3
I/ Based on TCZB calculations and mission estimates.
2/ This figure contains only the short-terms loans with Bank financing. The total short-term
lending in the Project area was US$1,386 million.



23
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)   Actual/latest estimate (US$M)l
Source          Local    Foreign   Total   Local      Foreign     Total
costs    costs             Costs     costs
IBRD/IDA             0.0    250.0   250.0        0.0       179.3    179.3
Cofinancing          0.0    250.0   250.0        0.0       227.4    227.4
institutions
Other external       0.0      0.0   726.5        0.0         0.0       0.0
sources
Domestic           666.5      60.0     0.0     522.0       116.6    638.6
contribution
TOTAL              666.5    560.0  1226.5      522.0       523.3   1,045.3
1/ Based on TCZB calculations and Mission estimates.



Table 8C
Calculation of Project Cost (Medium- and Long-tenn Lending)
In Current Prices
1989   1989   1990  1990   1991   1991   1992 |1992    1993    1993    Total    Total         Total
Loans Invest Loans Invest Loans Invest Loans Investmt. Loans lnvestmt. Loans   Farner  lnvestmt. Farmer
Type of Investment   Disb.  Cost  Disb.  Cost  Disb.  Cost  Dlsb.   Cost    Dlsb.   Cost    Disb.   Contrdb.    Cost   Contrib.
OTL   BTL   BTL   BTL   BTL   BTL BiT    BiT    BTL    BT                  Bt        BT        BTL      In %
Crop Production
Indiv. Fanmen       23.1   46.2   25.3  50.6   13.2   26.4  26.5    63.0    37.9    75.6   126.0          126.0    252.0    60.0
TKK Members          0.0    0.0    P. A    .     0.9    1 t    U       16.6    j        22.0A         20.6          41       50.0
Total               23.1   46.2   25.7   61.4   14.1   26.2  34.6    69.6    46.9    97.6   146.6         146.6    293.2    50.0
Uvestock Breeding
mndiv. Farmers      35.9   44.9   40.7  50.9   49.9   62.4  134.1   230.1   228.1   265.1   538.7         134.7    673.4    20.0
TKK Members          L.6    3 3    3.0  3LS    J       16.5   4.6   4OA        42.5      31     95.9       24.0    119.9    20.0
Total               38.5   48.1   43.7  54.6   63.1   78.9  218.7   273.4   270.6   336.3   634.6         158.7    793.3    20.0
Tractor
Indiv. Farmers     121.4  242.8  211.7  423.4  138.1  276.2  224.4   448.6   591.8  1,183.6  1,267.4   1,287.4   2,574.8    50.0
TKK Members          !A     0.0    0.0                  0.0   0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0        0.0      0.0 50.0.0
Total              121.4  242.8  211.7  423.4  138.0  276.0  224.3   446.6   591.8  1,163.6  1,287.2   1,287.2   2,574.4    50.0
Agric. Equipment
Indiv. Farmers      18.7   37.4   13.4  26.6    6.0   16.0   9.1    18.2    12.4    24.8    61.6           61.6    123.2    50.0
TKK Members         45.8   91.6   37 6   Z5.2 67.0  114.0  140.5   261.0   217.4   434.8   498.3          498.3    996.6    50.0
Total               64.5  129.0   51.0  102.0   65.0  130.0  149.6   299.2   229.8   459.6   659.9        659.9   1,119.8    50.0
Water Management
Indiv. Farmers       0.0    0.0   13.6  27.2    9.8   19.6   9.7    19.4    13.6    27.2    46.7           46.7     93.4    60.0
TKK Members          0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0        0.0      0.0    60.0
Total                0.0    0.0   13.6   27.2    9.8   19.6    9.7    19.4    13.6    27.2    46.7         46.7     93.4    60.0
Grand Total
Indiv. Farmers     199.1  371.3  304.7  678.9  219.0  400.6  453.8   769.5   883.8  1,596.5  2,060.4   1,656.4   3,716.8    44.6
TKK Members         48.4   94.9   41.0  79.8   71.1  132.3  183.4   340.9   270.9   509.9   614.8         542.9   157.7    46.9
Total            r 247.5  466.1  345.7  658.6  290.0  532.7  637.1  1,110.2  1,154.7  2 106.5  2 675.2    2 199.3   4,874.5    45.11
1) Note: Actual farmer contribution Is In all cases higher than that requested by
the guidelines because prices go up between application and actual disbursement
and farmers have to make up for the balance from their own equity.
2) Assume that equity contribution Is the same
as for Indiv. farmers
21-Sep-94



Table 8D
Calculation of Project Cost (Medium- and Long-term Lending)
In US Dollar Prices
7 1989  1989   1990  1990   1991   991 | 1992   1992    1993    1993    Total    Total        Total
I Loans Invest ILoans Invest Loans Invest I Loans Investmt, Loans investmt. Loans  iFarmer  Investmt. Farmer I
Disb.  Cost  Disb.  Cost  Disb.  Cost  Disb.   Cost    Disb.    Cost    Disb.   Contrib.    Cost   Contrib.
Type of Investment  USS M  USI   M   USS M USI  M USS M  USS M USS M  USS M   USS M   USS M   USS M    USS M    USS M    in %
Crop Production
lndiv. Farmers      10.9   21.8    9.7  19.4    3.2    6.3   3.8       7.7      3.4     6.9    31.1        31.1     62.1
TKK Members          0.0    0.0    0.2   0.3    0,2    0.4   1.2        2,4     1.0      2.0     2.6        2.6      5.2
Total               10.9   21.8    9.9  19.7    3.4    6.8    5.1    10.1       4.5      8.9    33.6       33.6     67.3
Livestock Breeding
mndiv. Farmers      16.9   21.2   15.6  19.5   12.0   15.0   26.7    33.4    20.8    26.0    92.0          23.0    115.0
TKK Members          1.2    1.6    L.2   1.4    3.2    4.0             6.3      3.9      4.8    14.4        3.6     18.0
Total               18.2   22.7   16.8  20.9   16.1   18.9   31.6    39.7    24.6    30.8   106.4          26.6    133.0
Tractor
Indiv. Farmers      57.2  114.5   31.2  162.3   33.1   66.2  32.6    65.2    53.9   107.7   258.0         258.0    515.9
TKK Members          0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0        0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0        0.0      0.0
Total               57.2  114.6   S1.2  162.3   33.1   66.2   32.6    65.1    53.9   107.7   257.,        257.9    515.9
Agric. Equipment
lndiv. Farmers       8.8   17.6   5.1   10.3    1.9    3.8    1.3       2.6     1.1      2.3    18.3       18.3     36.6
TKK Members         21.6  !M&   14A   28.8   13.7    ,3  204           40.8    19.8    39.6    89.9        89.9    179.7
Total               30.4   60.8   19.6  39.1   15.6   31.2  21.7    43.4    20.9    41.8   108.2          108.2    216.4
Water Management
Indiv. Farners       0.0    0.0    5.2  10.4    2.4    4.7   1.4        2.8     1.2      2.5    10.2       10.2     20.4
TKK Members          0.0       0.0     0.0              0.0 0A          LA      0.0      0.0     0.0 0.              0.0
Total                0.0    0.0    5.2  10.4    2.4    4.7    1.4       2.8     1.2      2.6    10.2       10.2     20.4
Grand Total
Indiv. Farmers      93.9  176.0  116.8  222.0   52.5   96.1   65.9   111.7    80.4   145.3   409.6        340.6    750.1
TKK Members         22.8   44.7   15.7  30.6   17.1   31.7  26.6    49.5    24.7    46.4   106.9           96.1    202.9
Total            r 116.7  219.8  132.6  252.6   69.5  127.7  92.5   161.2   105.1   191.7   516.4         436.6    953.0
21-Sep-94



Table 8E
Calculation of Project Cost (Short-term Lending)
In Current Prices
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    Total
Loans   Loans   Loans   Loans   Loans   Loans
Type of Loan         Disb.   Disb.   Disb.   Disb.   Disb.   Disb.
BTL     BTL      BTL      BTL     BTL      BTL
Crop Production
mndiv. Farmers           0   624.2   719.6   648.7       0.0  1,992.5
TKK Members              Q   106.3   287.5   300.0       0.0   693.8
Total                 0.0    730.5  1,007.1   948.7      0.0  2,686.3
Livestock Breeding
Indiv. Farmers         0.0   601.7   752.4   573.6       0.0  1,827.7
TKK Members            0.0    85.4   118.5   115.2       0.0   319.1
Total                  0.0   687.1   870.9   688.8       0.0  2,146.8
Fertilizer
Indiv. Farmers        0.0   124.5   226.8   155.0        0.0   606.3
TKK Members           0.0    21.2   171.3   129.7        0.0   322.2
Total                  0.0   145.7   398.1   284.7       0.0   828.5
Grand Total                                                                                                                          a
Indiv. Farmers         0.0  1,250.4  1,698.8  1,377.3    0.0  4,326.5
TKK Members            0.0   212.9   577.3   644.9       0.0  1,335.1
Total                   .       .        .
1) Note: Actual farmer contribution should be zero, but Is In most cases required
because crop budgets are not in line with Inflation and also prices
increase between application and disbursements and farmers have
to make up for the balance from their own funds.
2) Note: TCZB's short4erm lending In 1993 not shown because no Bank funds
were available to TCZB in that year. Lending from backflow of funds could have
been shown, however.
21 -Sep-94



Table 8F
Calculation of Project Cost (Short-term Lending)
In US Dollar Prices
1989    1990    1991    1992       1993    Total
I Loans I Loans   Loans   Loans   Loans   Loans
Disb.    Disb.   Disb.   Disb.    Disb.   Disb.
Type of Investment   USS M   USS M   USS M   USS M   USS M   USS M
Crop Production
mndiv. Farmers         0.0   239.3   172.6    94.2        0.0   506.1
TKK Members            0.0    40,8    68.9      43.6      0.0   153.3
Total                  0.0   280.1   241.5   137.7        0.0   659.3
Livestock Breeding
Indiv. Farmers         0.0   192.4   180.4    83.3        0.0   456.1
TKK Members            0.0    32.7    28.4    16.7        0 0     77.9
Total                  0.0   225.1    208.8   100.0       0.0   534.0
Fertilizer
Indiv. Farmers         0.0    47.7    54.4    22.5         0.0   124.6
TKK Members            0.0       1      41.1    18.8       0.0    68.0
Total                  0.0    65.9    95.5    41.3         0.0   192.7
Grand Total
Indiv. Farmers         0.0   479.4   407.4   200.0         0.0  1,086.8
TKK Members            0.0    81.6   138.4    79.1         0.0   299.2
Total             r    0.0   661.1   545.8   279.1         0.0  1,386.0
21-Sep.94



28
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the whole project was calculated at appraisal.
However, ERRs and Financial Rates of Return (FRRs) were calculated for individual
on-farm investments. The SAR stated that ERRs were expected to be in the range from
17% to 71%, while FRRs were expected to be between 13% and 52%.
Preliminary results of the M&E exercise carried out on a sample of 198 medium- and
long-term loans only two FRRs (egg production and a 10-head dairy unit) came out with
unsatisfactory FRRs. The other investments achieved FRRs ranging from 13% to 60%.
Regarding ERRs, preliminary results are available only for three models, they range from
17% to 59%.
Results from the M&E report of TCZB are awaited.



Tade 10: Status of Legal CoveL
Loan        Covenaut    Presenti      O        _iAl   Revised
Agreemer        TYpe       Status      FulfihIment     Fulfiltmar                           Description of Cova                                      Cosma
Section                                 Date            Date
2.02A           3          C                                        Amouni of loan may be witbdrwn in accordance with provisio  of
Scbedule 1
2.02B           1          C                                       Botwer dais  open and maimuin a qecial account in the Ceisul Bank of   Accowi opoend in Decemrber 1939
Turkey, withdrawal nd paymnr  dal] be made in accordance widt       in CB. In 1991 tafemrd to
povsion of Schedule 4.                                              TCZB in Nev York. Raconciliated
and clmosd mid-1993.
2.03           10          C         6/30/93         12/31/93      Closing dat  bahl be Jue 30, 1993 Ot mc date a  Bas Dnks i ubs  .    Extend  by 6 mioha an close
_ _ _ _ _   I   _ _ _    [    _ _ _   I   _ _ _ _ _   I   _ _ _ _ _   I                     egablidi.    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12.31.93
3.01A          10          C                                        Dotnrw  declr  COWitnesi, dh  cou se  TCZB to perform ccording
to PA
301             3                   E    ivne                      Bore  to make proceeds avaab  under tm  and conditiom  stoed         Sub"iasy LA sined on 10119/90
W[on between Borrmor and Bank in sbsidiary LA                     I
3.01C           5          C                                         orrowt d   exerisce bik rights to pwwt int s of Bormrwe and
____       ___   ___ll                          I                  D BDanktd N ccoWaliub pupo esof loan.
3.01D  ( nd       1           C          12/31/91                       orowe    l   1pri  TCZB with equity contribution to enable TCZB to
dettet N.                                                              m        ed o to aven   totl _m   of 5% in 199, 5.5% In 1990, and
1)        _ _  _  __                _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  6%    in   199 .                                                       _   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _
3.02           5          c        Efrecivess                      borrower diacl _e MAFIA to conchbde protocol with TCZB and asin   Protoco  ined 10119139.
saff equired.                                                       Supple muy letr on
onvironmeui unsiibed on 1112189.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _Coopea tion   OK
3.03A           I                                                   Bo oer dia caus MAFRA to audi et law owce ever 3 fisca yasr         Andk am do.. by Coeria Union
|~~~~~0acut  |W finand cial mwm    ofTKIC and indv iua coqpetive                  aliditoll
3.03B           I_                                                           sha c lu MAFRA to fiuniab TCZB weport of dit so Wmr  Sea 3.03A.
_ thjea  mo* hsafter end of fiscal year audit was unden 
side                               I               I                 agricul        t rts on an agreed basi.                              scond in Decenber 1991, no
_        _       __.I                                    __                                                                                unherreviews wereundertaken
3.04 (d          2                          |                         Bower d   t        mm    necessry to bring (O averg intb rate
side kaer |                                                          by 3/31/90 end (u) al agr. rates by 3/31/91 to positiv leves.
No. 2(b))   |                        _             1 I             I



Loan        Cuvenai      Present       Orginul          llvised
Agin.me         Type        Stbes       FulfiUmeut       Fuitlulnm                              DecripeJoc of Covnasi                                      C<odwuj
Section                                   Dteb            Date
3.05           5           C                                         Exept as agreed, procuneme  of good, works and cosinakaz   urem
shal be govend by provisiom of Sectio  2.03.
4.01                                                                 For l expenitur, with reqe  to whicb widbduwals from loin
account db bo tme ^11:
4.01A(i)         I           C                                         but    Uein  N   ac nsd reiecting  *dmitu.
4.01A(iu)         I           C                                         Eamn .1 records of expenditue am  tined t km on year afte Bank
receiv d tusdit qport for fiscal year bst wihdmwd fne  lam wnaswa
4.01A(iui)        I           C                                         Enble Bank's repeseadves to examin  records.
4.01B                                                                 Borrower shall:
4.01B()          I           C                                           a"e eordsnd accouas audited by uependet suditol.
4.01B(H)          I          CD                                        Purvidh to Dank -  leacte i 6 mefoe &ae ed of snch ich yeu report   Audit report for 1991  eceived
of sdiL                                                               Jan. 93, thereafter up to date.
4.0 13(111)       I           C                                         Puea to Dank ode  imatio concening records an  acconts                                                                 LO
__audke es requead by Dank.                                                       o



LoAn       Covenant    Preaem        Original        Revimed
Apemeat         Type       Stab"      Fulfillment     Fulfillment                         Decription of Covenatg                                   Conuneu
Section                                 Date           Date
Schedule 4 to      5          C                                       Paymne  out of SA dial be nmde only fbr eligible expenditu   nd tn
Loan                                                              accordance with cbedule 4.
AVreernet
Project        5           C                                       TCZB dclae cownient to Project
Aseemeit
2.01A,
2.0118         5           C                                      TCZB to cony out Proect in accordance witd Schedule
2.01C(i)        S           C                                      TCZB to cocclude agreemedt with MAFRA                               Signed 10/19/59
2.O1C(t)        5           C                                       TC2'B to conclude h grement with TlK
201D          5           C                                       TCZB to adopt credt guidelines
2.015          5           C                                      TCZB et to ebropte Policy Statement, Crdit Ouidelinee, Praect Credit
(uidelinee, MAFRA Prtool and TKK Agrment
2.OMA          S           C                                       TCZB to co   out tde Action Pla and the trinuig pfopm  refened to in
Al and A 4 of tbe Poject
2.02J          S          CP                                      TCZB to cariy amt dt  dudi  refened to b A I of the Project
2.03A          5           C                                      TCZP to cay out pmcumt in accordance bith die Schedule to dt
P__e_  Agreement
2.03B          5          CD                                      TCZB to euloy clmhtSt
3.OIA          I           C                                      TCZ  to       in adequa  records       ccouia
301B                        C                                      TCZB to hve hts ecctaoua nd financial gstelmU audited



l~~~ -o                                                                 -
LOR       COVing      P           OriinaaReised
Agee-se       TYe        Sw_       Pi61fimet      PFihu.                          Dscd1wo of Cow_ee                                   C     _msg
Seada                               Det            Dab
3.01()          1         C                                   TCZ8 w    _h_m_& r ,        _ _ _ __6-mssomu  aler6sadof
_ _ _                _   _   _                   ea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sch   omr
3.02          l         C                                   TCZ. to _ 1onimeernee w weatb haIgud uudhs p_toedue
ScheMeto        5          C                                   TCZWo AylsmeAha nhmdloIA  I ofC6ePn*d
A
*           S          C                                   TCZ5 de ooorbZ siel of miblo__                                                     _
310)          3         C                                    TCZB  dal pyo   sbl t     in w      comd.m wIh t,m,           FaP budgs  *d
PI I      d I         a( Cea OeBms NW PSojet Cm&              modes ioe sad nguaCdy-
__~                                              3.- _-_
ilrbX(        3         C                                    bbm egilodn "  be           td deuumin bm bied and            See aba,.. Caope  deephe
biemehvi wIbby. Er. basibos of cay budget ULT a. beds of      sbutap of "echicaI ff
_____o _IL_e .   10%ofsawd .1MLTw Lbereed.
I b)(U)       2          C                                   ltreosee in  be chaed at dw eve qifed in. C& Guldaihu.
i1(b)(M        2          C                                   Sepwsiu.om inil be m Is don e  I evi  xiW am i  Of
MARA. MAFIA wI Wm mwdl do rnb use of p_dWides.
.___________  ________         ___________   Caus.anod    m m wE be geqdW If aeasy.



33
-           -     
Wi
Ia 1I1i1i
1t111  
313l~I 1 i j1



m - 
Loan       Cov tm   Preng             Origlril        Revised
Agemanc         Type        Stahi      Fufifllmnt      Pulfillme                            Descrption of Covyen                                      Conunati
Section                                 Deft            Date
B2(c)    5                CD                                       TKICK itull ientid  wb yea So coopeudves elgiber ubloa  in           Only 80 TCK eligible in 1993 aid
ccordane with fie critera.                                          1994
B3            3           C                                       Payments nude to TCZB in debt sarvice under mubloat shl be used by
TCZB for earn purposes.
C             9          CD                                       TCZB hanl prepaz (1) snd-anI report and (2) m-tecm evalhuado         No midd-tam evaluatio was caffied
repoit.                                                             out mime cancellati  was idis
of remaining credit funde
Covnaa Tnm
I - Accunts'udita
2 -Fancial perormuncelrveua  gnenratio  ham besficlads
3- Flow and u1lizatko of prjoa funds
4 - Couarpart funding
3 - Maag meud a sects of dt  project or exwcuing acy
6- Envinsal covents
7   InvohiwAry rebulemcd
I - Indigenous peopl
9 - Monitoring, rview and re n
10 - Prjc implemuiatiod  nt coved by cctgories 1-9
11- Setonul or croe-eciorl budgeary or other recnve aDocedom
12 - scioral ot crom-cioanl polcy/regulaioryAnmlbionJ acto
13- Odter
C        Coveni  compfied with
CD -Conied with after dy
CP -Conpid wi partially
NC  -Not complid with



35
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title              Describe and Comment on Lack of        ]
ompliance  lane
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statementsl



36
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs'
Stage of Project               Actual Weeks
Through Appraisal                         207.7
Appraisal--Board                           92.4
Board--effectiveness           not separately
available
Supervision                                58.9
Completion                                  7.3
Total                                     366.3
1/ Data for planned weeks not available, therefore, comparison of planned weeks with actual
weeks not possible. Also, US dollar figures not available.



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of     Month/    Number  Days    Specialized Staff Skills Represented         Performance Rating    Types of
Project      Year       of        in                                                                       Problems
Persons  Field
Implem.  Dev.
Status    Objectives
Through      Jun. 1985  5         6        Agric. Credit Specialist               N.A.       N.A.          N.A.
Appraisal                                  Credit Institut. Specialist (CP)
Agriculturist (CP)
Fin. Analyst (CP)
Coop. Credit Specialist (CP consultant)
Oct. 1985  2         9        Credit Institut. Specialist (CP)       N.A.       N.A.          N.A.
Agriculturist (CP consultant)
Nov.       5         8        Agr. Credit Specialist                 N.A.       N.A.          N.A.
1985                          Credit Inst. Specialist (CP)
Fin. Analyst (CP consultant)
Agriculturist (CP consultant)
Coop. Credit Specialist (CP consultant)
Apr.       7         14       Agric. Credit Specialist               N.A.       N.A.         N.A.
1986                          Agriculturist
Agric. Education Specialist
Credit Institut. Specialist (CP)
Fin. Analyst (CP consultant)
Agriculturist (CP consultant)
Coop. Credit Specialist (CP consultant)
May        1         2        Manager                                N.A.       N.A.          N.A.
1986



Stage of      Month/       Number  Days    Specialized Staff Skills Represented             Performance Rating      Types of
Project       Year         of        in                                                                             Problems
Persons   Field
Implem.   Dev.
Status     Objectives                 l
Nov.        4          11       Agric. Credit Specialist                   N.A.       N.A.           N.A.
1986                            Agric. Credit Specialist
Credit Institut. Specialist (CP)
l_______ _______  Coop. Credit Specialist (CP consultant)                                             l
Appraisal--   Jul. 1987   3          3         Manager                                    N.A.       N.A.           N.A.
Board                                          Agric. Credit Specialist
l __________               ________    _______    Agric.  Economist
May         1          13       Agric. Credit Specialist                   N.A.       N.A.           N.A.
l ___________  1988        _
Aug.        1          16       Agric. Credit Specialist                   N.A.       N.A.           N.A.           co
1988
Board--       Jun. 1989   1          3         Agric. Credit Specialist                   1          1              No
effective-    OctlNov                                                                                               problems
ness           1989        1          11       Agric. Credit Specialist                   1          1
Supervision   Jul. 1990   1           13       Agric. Credit Specialist                   2          2              Covent.
Compl.
Progress
in TA



Stage of     Month/    Number  Days    Specialized Staff Sldlls Represented          Performance Rating    Types of
Project      Year       of        in                                                                       Problems
Persons  Field
Implem.  Dev.
Status    Objectives
Supervision   Oct/Nov    3         12      Agric. Credit Specialist               2          2             Covent.
1990                          Agriculturist                                                  Compl.
Economist                                                      Progress
in TA
Supervision   Apr/May   2          16      Agric. Credit Specialist               3          2             Covenant
1991                          Financial Analyst                                              Compl.
Progress
in TA &
l______                                         _________  ____________   S tudies.
Supervision   Jan, 1992  3         16      Agric. Credit Specialist               3          2             Covenant
Financial Analyst                                              Compl.
Agric. Credit Specialist                                       Progress
in TA &
Studies
Supervision   Oct/Nov   2          15      Agric. Credit Specialist               2          2             No major
1992                          Financial Analyst                                              problems.
Supervision   Aug.      2          13      Agric. Credit Specialist               2          2             No major
1993                          Financial Analyst                                              problems.
Supervision   Feb/Mar   2          18      Agric. Credit Specialist               2          2             No major
1994              _           Financial Analyst                                              prob lems.
Completion   Aug.        1         16      Agric. Credit Specialist               N.A.       N.A.          N.A.
1994



40
Annex 1
Page 1
AIDE MEMOIRE
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT (Loan 3090-TU)
Implementation Completion Mission of August 1994
Introduction
1.    A World Bank mission consisting of Mr. J. Duester carried out the Implementation
Completion Mission of the Third Agricultural Credit Project (the Project) from August 12 - 26,
1994. The Mission held discussions with officials of the Undersecretariat of Treasury and
Foreign Trade, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA), the Management and
officials of the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB), and the Management and officials of the
Central Union of Agricultural Credit Cooperatives (the Union).
2.    Field trips were made to the Izmir and Manisa provinces where TCZB branch offices,
MARA extension offices, the District Office of the Union of Agricultural Credit Cooperatives
were visited to discuss the project achievements and the operational plan. AdditionaIly, the
Mission reviewed a sample of TCZB loan beneficiaries participating in the monitoring and
evaluation (M & E) exercise in order to verify the initial results of this exercise that have been
incorporated in TCZB's first M & E report.
3.    The Mission wishes to express its sincere appreciation for the cooperation and the
courtesies extended to it and all previous missions during the project implementation phase by
officials of the Government of Turkey (GOT), the managements and staff of TCZB, the Union
and the many farmer beneficiaries visited. Without this cooperation, it would not have been
possible to achieve the level of success in project implementation that has actually been
achieved.
4.    The Project closed on December 31, 1993, and it was thus the objective of the mission
to:
a.    collect data for the preparation of the Bank's Implementation Completion Report
(ICR), and
b.    advise GOT and the implementing agencies on preparing their own contribution
to the ICR.



41
Annex 1
Page 2
5.    The ICR marks the transition of the project from implementation to its future operation.
It is intended to assess:
a.   the degree of achievement of Project objectives;
b.    prospects for the Project's sustainability;
c.    Bank and Borrower performance;
d.    Project outcome; and
e.   the plan for the Project's future operation.
6.    This Aide Memoire records the views of the Borrower, the implementing agencies and
the Bank on Project implementation and operation including the operational plan which is
attached as annex. The Mission's findings regarding the views of the Bank are subject to
confirmation by the Bank's Management.
7.    A wrap-up meeting chaired by the Head of the World Bank Projects Department in the
Treasury is scheduled to be held on August 26 with representatives of MARA, TCZB, the
Union, and the World Bank Resident Mission in attendance.
Project Implementation
8.    Project Closing. The Project closed after one extension on December 31, 1993, six
months after the planned closing date. The remaining funds on the loan account of $206,841.30
were disbursed to the Trust Fund Account of FAO under categories 2, consultants' services, and
3, fellowships, of the Project in December 1993, bringing the loan account balance to zero. The
final disbursement figure was $179.3 million out of the total initial amount of $250 million.
$70.7 million of the loan was cancelled in June 1992. Details of the Project disbursements and
physical achievements are in the annex: Plan for Project Operation after Closing on December
31, 1993.
9.    Cofinancing. The Project was cofinanced by the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
of Japan (OECF) with $250 million. The funds of OECF were used in a joint financing
operation of all medium- and long-term loans made under the Project. The Closing Date for the
OECF loan is December 31, 1994. As of July 31, 1994 an amount of $22.6 million was still
undisbursed. TCZB Management has requested that the OECF either extend the Closing Date
by one year to allow sufficient time to disburse the remaining funds or increase the OECF
disbursement percentage to 90% to cover the Bank's 45 % that are no longer forthcoming after
the cancellation of the remaining credit funds.



42
Annex 1
Page 3
10.   Formulating and Attaining of Credit-Related Objectives. It is the view of the Borrower
as represented by the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade and MARA and of the
implementing agencies that the Project had clear and attainable objectives in the area that relates
to credit and that the Project objectives were met as they relate to increasing farm productivity
and farmers' incomes through expanded access to agricultural credit and the financing of
productive investments at the farm level. The Mission concurs with this view. As detailed in
the annex, TCZB made more than 96,000 direct medium- and long-term investment loans, far
more than the 40,000 investment loans envisaged at appraisal. The big difference is mainly due
to the fact that OECF came in with additional long-term funds which were disbursed on a joint
financing basis so that TCZB could reduce its own contribution and thus finance a larger number
of investments. Without the Project, investment loans in that order of magnitude would not have
been made due to the lack of long- term funds in TCZB. TCZB concentrated the scarce funds
available to it in the non-Project provinces which, at the end of 1993, had medium- and long-
term loans outstanding of 15.3% of the country total. The corresponding figure for short-term
loans was 20. 1%
11.  In addition to the direct lending by TCZB, about 114,000 small medium- and long term
loans were made by the TKK to their members. These were for agricultural equipment, e.g.,
tractor-drawn implements or trailers (87.7% of number of loans), livestock breeding, e.g., up
to three heads of dairy cattle (10.9%) and crop production (1.4%).
12.   The $23.1 million of Bank funds used for incremental short-term lending were part of
TCZB's and the TKKs' impressive lending effort in this category. TCZB made close to 1.5
million short-term loans under the Project, the TKK another 556,000. TCZB argued that the
formulation of the definition for "incremental" was flawed because it lead to very uneven
disbursements. The Mission expressed the view that it was necessary to define "incremental
lending" in real terms to avoid financing inflationary increases and that for this purpose the best
possible definition was agreed at negotiations and incorporated in the legal agreements (para 2.c.
of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement). The uneven disbursement was the consequence of a drop
and subsequent steep rise in short-term lending by TCZB due to drought in 1989 and 1990 which
could not have been foreseen. The Mission emphasized that the short-term component, which
in retrospect may seem without great importance because the actual number of loans financed
with Bank funds within the overall total of short-term loans was insignificant, did have an
important role: It provided the vehicle for the introduction of crop budgets which proved out
to be a very important instrument to calculate actual credit requirements at the farm level. Both
GOT and TCZB indicated that the short-term component had indeed great significance and
should be included in any further project.
13.    Monitoring & Evaluation. TCZB carried out an M & E exercise on a representative
sample of 198 medium- and long-term loans and 1,347 short-term loans. The participants
among the loan beneficiaries, both for medium- and long-term and for short-term loans, were
selected randomly under consideration of the number of loans made for each type of investment
or crop purpose in the various agro-climatic zones. Preliminary results for the investment



43
Annex 1
Page 4
lending (using two monitoring runs for 28 farmers and one for 170 farmers) indicate that of 14
types of investment under review, only two came out with financial rates of return (FRR) under
the required level of 12 %. These are egg production with a negative FRR of 4 % and a 10-head
dairy unit with 1 %. In the case of the poultry investment, this is the result of declining prices
due to loss of export markets after the Gulf War. In the case of the dairy investment, the
investment cost include construction of stables for cattle, an investment that cannot be supported
by a herd of ten heads. The remainder of the investment models achieved FRR rates ranging
from 13% for a combine harvester to 60% for a 20-cow cattle breeding unit. Economic rates
of return (ERRs) are still under preparation. The Mission reviewed a selected sample of farmer
beneficiaries participating in the M & E in the Manisa and Izmir provinces and found that the
results of the exercise appear trustworthy.  For six farms visited with various types of
investments, individual farm models were prepared which should have acceptable FRRs.
14.   One additional achievement deserves to be listed. While in an environment of high
inflation investors are normally reluctant to make new investments, e.g., in the agroindustrial
sector, farmers who have taken a loan for the procurement of machinery and equipment or for
the import of dairy cattle, consider this as the best type of assurance against devaluation of their
money because the market value, rather than decreasing through depreciation, increased during
all years of Project implementation, the rate of inflation being much higher than the depreciation
rate.
15.   Formulating and Attaining of Institutional Objectives.  Institutional Development
objectives were aimed to further strengthen the institutional capabilities of TCZB and the credit
operations of the TKK. In particular, they were to maintain the momentum in a process that had
started under the Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1218-TU).  They included
organizational and procedural measures, e.g., improvements in TCZB's MIS, cost accounting,
program budgeting, and improvements in TCZB's financial position through agreement with
GOT on equity contributions and a spread for TCZB that would cover all lending-related costs
as well as analysis of its loan and equity portfolio.
16.   Conclusions by the Borrower and TCZB on Project performance in the institutional
development aspects are that the Project has reached most of the objectives set out in the SAR
also in this respect. It strengthened TCZB's financial position through increasing TCZB's net
worth, it improved its recovery position and thus reduced its portfolio under administrative and
legal follow-up, it assisted in settling TCZB's claims to Government and in finding new
arrangements for Government programs carried out by TCZB, and had some success in
furthering TCZB's institutional reform, although some of the momentum in the reform effort
was lost when it took an inordinate amount of time to recruit consultants to carry out the new
assignments.
17.  It was the overriding institutional objective of the Project that TCZB be strengthened
financially with the goal to increase its equity base through equity infusions by GOT, and, over
time, allow TCZB to build up reserves from profits. This goal was reached although the Project



44
Annex 1
Page 5
subloans did not contribute to this achievement. TCZB strengthened its equity base through
equity infusions from GOT in the years 1989 and 1990 and thereafter from building up profits
from lending to sales cooperatives at interest rates which were always well above inflation rates.
TCZB used the lending rate to the sales cooperatives to offset the losses from that part of the
portfolio that was lent out at negative interest rates. The Project did not reach the goals that (i)
all interest rates would have to be positive in real terms by March 31, 1991, and (ii) there
should be a spread for TCZB on all its loans that would cover all lending-related costs by
September 30, 1991.
18.   It is this latter failure that lead to the consequences described in more detail in the annex
(paras 10 - 12) that make the Project partially unsustainable and for which GOT will have to
bear the losses that are the result of the fast depreciation of the Turkish Lira. GOT and TCZB
maintain that it was not possible to meet the covenant related to positive interest rates because
of the dilemma of having to compensate farmers for losses incurred due to rising inflation
through various kinds of subsidy payments. It did not appear possible to raise interest rates at
a time when farmers were already hard hit by the consequences of inflation. Treasury indicated
that in 1991 and 1992 when the covenants were to be implemented, GOT was not ready to make
fundamental changes in its agricultural support policy and that dealing with interest rates alone
would not have been sufficient. The readiness to address agricultural policy in a package of
measures built up only gradually in the last three years when it bacame evident that the support
policies were not sustainable and that interest rates were not an appropriate vehicle for income
distribution. Both Treasury and TCZB are of the view that the Bank should have been more
flexible to keep the dialogue on interest rates open rather than forcing GOT to cancel with the
threat of suspension. Certain measures were under discussion at the time to avoid cancellation,
e.g., eliminating the lowest interest rate of 34% that due to the limits imposed on this rate was
becoming anyway less meaningful with progressing inflation, and to ask the Bank to re-negotiate
the pertinent covenants and allowing more time for their attainment. The Mission emphasized
that no such proposal has been made to the Bank despite its efforts to come to a negotiated
agreement. Not meeting the covenant that all rates should be positive lead naturally to non-
compliance with the next one on all rates providing sufficient margins to TCZB.
19.   Technical Assistance and Fellowships. Part of the institutional development progress of
TCZB was facilitated with the help of a Technical Assistance (TA) program. The TA program
was designed to pick up where the program under the Second Agricultural Credit Program had
left and to provide financing for 26 man-months of consultancy to assist TCZB in (i) the various
actions related to reorganization; (ii) introduction of an MIS; (iii) improvement of M & E,
program budgeting and cost accounting systems. TCZB wanted, with the approval of the Bank,
to recruit the services of the Chief Technical Adviser who had executed the TA program under
the SACP and insisted partially for this reason, on making an agreement with FAO for the TA.
It took until June 1991 for this agreement to be concluded and until June 1992 to become
operational. By this time the services of the desired consultant were no longer available.
Various changes were made to the program with the approval of the Bank, the most prominent
among them being the dropping the consultancy in the M & E field and replacing it by a three-



45
Annex 1
Page 6
months consultancy directed toward improving the internal auditing system which was also a
high priority under the Project, and the elimination of consultancy for the analysis of arrears and
the equity portfolio. The loan portfolio audit was carried out by TCZB's external auditors. The
study on the equity portfolio bacame redundant when TCZB mad it its declared policy that all
participations with the exception of those in banking and insurance business should be sold.
TCZB emphasizes that once the TA program was started, it achieved all its objectives and was
well appreciated. The fellowship program was held up until the consultants took up their
assignments. The program was then carried out in 1993. The Closing Date was extended for
six months to be able to complete the TA and fellowship programs.
20.   With respect to the institutional development of the TKK, the objectives were aimed at
making the TKK stronger and more resistant to withstand the vagaries of nature. This was to
be brought about by the introduction of eligibility criteria for the TKK which were intended to
create incentives for them to improve their financial soundness. The criteria included those
directed at their financial position, i.e., increasing the TKKs' net worth and improving their
recovery percentages and those directed at improving their organizational standing, i.e.,
requesting compliance with annual meeting and audit covenants. It was the original idea during
Project design to include a separate institutional development component for the TKK and to
have the credit funds flow directly to the TKK. This intention was abandoned even before
appraisal on request of the Treasury and TCZB. The argument of TCZB was that the TKICK were
too weak structurally and organizationally to manage such components and that therefore all
project funds including those for the TKK could only be channeled through TCZB. TCZB's
Management convinced the Treasury of this position and thereafter also the Bank, all Project
funds were channelled through TCZB and the separate development component for the TKK was
dropped. TCZB maintains today that this was the right position to take and the Union agrees.
They argue that the implementation of the TKK component through TCZB that was laid down
in a protocol between TCZB and the Union went quite well and that the criteria for the eligibility
for the participation in the Project have been judiciously applied although the Union maintains
that more flexibility in the application of the criteria would have benefitted the members. The
Mission agrees that the criteria for the participation of the TKK were indeed quite rigid, in
particular in cases of natural disasters like the droughts that occurred in 1989 and 1990 with the
effect of driving the recovery rates down. It may be advisable for the operational phase to allow
for certain modifications in such cases. It may also have been a flaw in Project design that the
Project did not define the differences in access to credit made available by TCZB between
eligible and non-eligible TKK. It was also intended that the TKK should start mobilizing their
own deposits, the "forgotten half" of financial intermediation, as also provided for in the
cooperative law. In retrospect, it appears a blessing that such efforts have not been made
because throughout the implementation of the Project deposit rates followed market rates and
were thus much higher than agricultural lending rates. The difference would have been hard to
digest for the TKK.
21.   Technical Cooperation with MARA. It was also the aim of the Project to improve the
technical capabilities of TCZB in the appraisal and approval of loans. For this purpose it



46
Annex 1
Page 7
required the preparation of investment models for medium- and long-term lending and of crop
budgets for short-term lending by TCZB to help determine actual credit requirements in line with
projections of costs and benefits of the envisaged loans. The Project enlisted the assistance of
MARA in all technical aspects and laid down the details for this assistance and for the
cooperation of TCZB's branch technical staff with the extension service of MARA in a protocol
the signing of which was a condition of effectiveness of the loan. Both MARA and TCZB feel
that the stipulations of the protocol were well designed and adhered to during implementation
which laid the basis for an excellent cooperation. TCZB paid one third of the fee raised on all
loans for technical evaluation to MARA.
22.   The Mission is of the view that TCZB in general did very good work in all technical
maters, i.e., in preparing and updating farm budgets and investment models and training its staff
in their application. TCZB is today a much more project-oriented bank with excellent technical
knowledge. Due to the requirements laid down in the Project, technical staff was recruited that
helped greatly in improving the quality of lending and had thus a direct impact on recoveries.
Although due to the stringent authorization requirements for all recruitment TCZB never got the
authority to employ enough agricultural engineers to fully meet the criterion of having one
engineer for 300 medium- and long-term loans, the deficiency was made up partly by
agricultural technicians and the work got done. This pertains also to the M & E exercise,
although it incurred initial delays because the responsible Project Evaluation Department was
heavily engaged in carrying out special tasks for MARA in evaluating subsidized agricultural
programs particularly in the field of promoting livestock production.
23.   Project Area and Scope. The Project area was defined to be 45 out 67 provinces in
Turkey. Due to administrative necessities, some new provinces were created out of existing
ones and at the Project Closing date the Project area comprised 52 out of 76 provinces. The
idea behind excluding about one third of the area of Turkey from the Project, mainly the Black
Sea Region, was the fear that TCZB would not be in a position to apply the strict standards of
loan appraisal and supervision required under the Project in the whole country. The Project was
envisaged as one in a series of projects and the next step would have been probably to cover the
entire country in a fourth project. It was therefore decided at appraisal to select those provinces
which had been part of the SACP and add those provinces which formed part of the two
agricultural extension projects (Loans 2405 and 3177-TU) to ensure the availability of qualified
extension staff to beneficiaries of Project loans.
24.   TCZB indicates that the split up of the country into Project area and non-Project area
seemed arbitrary.  It had the effect that TCZB had to use its own funds in those areas.
However, since the long-term funds of TCZB were very limited, the coverage with investment
loans in the non-Project area had a slightly lower density than that of the Project area. The
Mission shares the view that covering the whole country probably would have exceeded the
technical capability of the participants. However, in retrospect cutting out of a substantial part
of the country from participation did not have any great impact: TCZB introduced all measures
taken under the Project in the Project provinces also in the non-Project provinces. The outcome



47
Annex 1
Page 8
was therefore identical to one that would have been brought about if the Project would have
covered the whole country.
25.   The scope of the Project in terms of IBRD loan size was a function of the Project cost
estimate undertaken at appraisal and the Bank funds available in FY89. The Treasury requested
in 1989 to increase the loan amount from the envisaged $270 million to $300 million. However,
due to limits on the lending program for Turkey in this year, the amount had to be reduced to
$250 million. This was supplemented, however, by a cofinancing loan from OECF for another
$250 million, so that of total Project cost estimated at appraisal at $1,226 million 41% was
financed which represented 89% of the estimated foreign exchange component.  These
percentage figures were reduced to 35% and 77%, respectively, after the cancellation of $70.7
million.
26.   Recoveries. From the point of view of recoveries, the Project would be sustainable. The
recovery percentage in 1993 of amounts due, i.e., of amounts due at the beginning of the year
and amounts falling due during the year, stood at 88%. It is expected by TCZB that at least
88% of the unrecovered amount will be recovered with the dues of 1994. The Mission received
also figures which improve the situation further and render a complet picture: Recoveries
against overdus under legal follow-up appear to bring in a substantial portion of the funds that
appear under this heading. For medium- and long-term loans the recovery rate for amounts
under legal follow-up was 26% in 1989 and increased steadily to 52% in 1993.
27.   Covenants. The major covenants related to the institutional development and financial
strength of TCZB. The covenants relating to interest rates have already been dealt with in paras
17 and 18 above. All other financial covenants relating to equity of TCZB, to arrangements
regarding the claims of TCZB to GOT, and audit obligations were met, except the obligation
of TCZB to prepare annually a report on the adequacy of agricultural interest rates to provide
the basis for meeting the third interest rate covenant. This report was prepared twice but
allowed to lapse when it became evident that the interest rate covenants would not be met. The
Mission recognizes that the Treasury and TCZB made great efforts to meet all covenants when
they became due but, as explained in para 18 above, the macro-environment was not conducive
to a change in the agricultural support policies.
Project Operation
28.   The annex to this Aide Memoire contains the Operational Plan that has been agreed
between GOT, TCZB, MARA, the Union and the Bank. In accordance with this plan, the
backflow of funds from both medium- and long-term loans and from short-term loans will be
used for similar purposes.



48
Annex 1
Page 9
Contribution of the Borrower to the ICR
29.   The Mission discussed with TCZB the draft report that has been prepared as its
contribution to the ICR. The report attempts a complete overview of the implementation and
includes the contributions of the Union and MARA.  It contains in its annex a very
comprehensive data collection on TCZB activities and Project achievements.  Certain
modifications and additions will be made to the report. It will be submitted to the Treasury for
review by October 15, 1994 for submission to the Bank. The summary of this report will be
added as annex to the Bank's ICR. The Bank's ICR will be sent for comments to GOT, TCZB,
MARA and the Union. The comments received will also be annexed to the Bank's report before
it is submitted to the Bank's Board.
Ankara, August 31, 1994



49
Annex 2
Page 1
TURKEY
THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT (Loan 3090-TU)
Plan for Project Operation after Closing on December 31, 1993
Project Objectives
1.          The Project objectives as summarized in the loan agreement were: (i) to further
strengthen the institutional capabilities of TCZB and the credit operations of the TKK; and (ii)
to increase farm productivity and farmers' income through expanded access to agricultural credit
and the financing of productive investments at the farm level.  Related to the institutional
development objective were the strengthening of TCZB's financial position through supporting
arrangements that would increase its equity, settling the claims of TCZB to Government, and
improving its ratio of net worth to total assets. Related to the objective of expanding access to
agricultural credit was the aim of having the project operate in 45 of the country's 67 provinces
to meet the full requirements of farmers and to reach creditworthy farmers previously without
access to institutional credit.  Since the number of provinces in Turkey during project
implementation increased from 67 to 76 through the division of several large provinces, the
number of project provinces also increased from 45 to 52.
2.          The Project was explained in the SAR as being needed to: (i) maintain the
momentum in the institutional development of TCZB including organizational and procedural
measures and improvements in TCZB's financial position through analysis of its loan and equity
portfolio, and to reach agreement with Government on equity contributions and a spread for
TCZB that would cover all lending-related costs; and (ii) help fill TCZB's resource gap in a
three-year time slice that was projected to be US$1.2 billion in the years 1989-91.
3.          These objectives remain valid for the operational phase, i.e., the phase after the
implementation of the project and the full disbursement of the project funds. Since TCZB has
the opportunity to roll over the funds obtained for a certain number of years, the backflow of
funds will be used to continue lending activities for similar purposes as stated in the loan
agreement. Equally important, the institutional development of TCZB and the TKK will
continue along the lines that were started in the first credit line from the World Bank and
continued in the second and third one.
Project Achievements during Implementation of Credit Program
4.          The Project closed after one extension on December 31, 1993, six months after
the planned closing date. The final disbursement figures in the individual categories, after
necessary account adjustments which included the reimbursement of funds in the Special Account
(SA) by TCZB to the Bank and the adjustment of overdrawn balances between the categories,
are set out in Appendix 1.



50
Annex 2
Page 2
5.          Physical Achievements: Since inception in 1989, and including the retro-active
financing since July 1988, until December 1993, more than 96,000 medium- and long-term
investment sub-loans were made by TCZB to individual farmers, amounting to TL 2,060 billion.
Another 114,000 sub-loans amounting to TL 615 billion were made by TKK to their members.
Details on medium- and long-term lending by type of investment and the related percentages are
in Appendix 2.
6.          Additionally, TCZB made close to 1.5 million short-term  production loans
amounting to TL 4,327 billion directly to famers. Another 550,000 short-term sub-loans
amounting to 1,335 billion were made by the TKK to their members. Details on short-term
loans by type of lending are in Appendix 3.
7.          Since disbursements for short-term lending were made only on an incremental
basis, direct participation of IBRD finance was only in 19,394 loans with a value of TL 361.7
billion.
Future Lending Operations
8.          The loan was made to the Government of Turkey (GOT) for 17 years including
five years of grace period. Onlending to TCZB is for the identical term, i.e., 17 years including
five years of grace period. TCZB will start repayment to GOT in March 1995 and complete
repayment in March 2006.
9.          The maturities by type of investment for which medium- and long-term loans have
been made are on average five years for tractor, livestock breeding, agricultural equipment, crop
production and water management loans and eight years for livestock loans. This is in some
cases shorter than required in the credit guidelines because the actual maturity is determined
after having prepared cashflow projections. The weighted average maturity is thus 5.5 years.
Assuming 100% repayment from farmers, TCZB would have the opportunity to revolve the
funds used for medium-and long-term loans (the TL equivalent at the time of disbursement of
$155.7 million) about three times after deduction of principal to be repaid to GOT. Since the
actual recovery rate in any one year varied between 80 and 88 %, and under the assumption that
the unpaid 15% are paid in the following year, 15% of the payment due could be used only one
year later. The backflows would, however, have a greatly reduced purchasing power due to the
influence of inflation that was 62.3% at the end of 1989, 48.6% for 1990, 59.2% for 1991,
61.4% for 1992, and 60.3% for 1993. Since TCZB has to pay all interest earned except a 4%
margin to GOT, TL 100 paid out in 1989 would have a value of TL 16 at the end of 1993.
10.         The maturities for short-term credit are between six and 18 months, the average
is one year. The TL equivalent after deduction of principal to be repaid to GOT of US$23.1
used for short-term loans will therefore be revolved 17 times. The loss of purchasing power is
the same as indicated above.



51
Annex 2
Page 3
11.         From the perspective of GOT, the picture in terms of purchasing power on
account of inflation is slightly more favorable. GOT receives from TCZB all interest received
from farmers after a reduction of 4% for operational cost. TCZB's calculations show that the
weighted average interest rate for Project funds was 42.9% in 1990 and in 1991, and 42% in
1992 and 1993. If these rates are combined with the inflation factor, TL 100 paid out to TCZB
in 1989 would have a value of TL 58 at the end of 1993.
12.         The legal agreements stipulate that the backflows of funds will be used for similar
purposes. TCZB's Management confirms that it intends to follow this agreement and make
loans to individual farmers and to TKK for similar purposes until all funds have been repaid to
GOT.
13.         Regarding the institutional development it will remain one of TCZB's main
objectives to further strengthen its financial position. It will remain the intention to reach
positive interest rates and full coverage of all lending-related costs as soon as feasible. The
performance against the key indicators on the ratio of TCZB's net worth to average assets and
on recovery of loans from borrowers that had been attained at the end of 1993 will be
maintained or improved.
14.         The lending to TKK will continue to be governed by the protocol between TCZB
and the Union. In this context it has been agreed that (i) some more flexibility in the eligibility
criteria for TKK should be introduced by allowing certain deviations in cases of natural
emergencies in areas which have been declared desaster areas by GOT, and (ii) the credit limit
made available to members of TKK should reflect a more pronounced difference than before
between eligible and ineligible TKK within the resources available to TCZB. This would be
done in the form of a supplement to the protocol.
15.         The technical consultations with MARA will continue to be governed by the
protocol between TCZB and MARA.
Ankara, August 31, 1994



52
Annex 2
Page 4
Appendix 1
to Plan of Operation
Disbursements under the Third Agricultural Credit Project
Flnal Disbursement in AgCredit m
Category          Amount Dec. 93      Adjustment        Final Amount
1 A ST Loans          $23,100,000            $0            $23,100,000
1 B MLT Loans        $155,671,292         ($84,202)       $155,587,090
2 TA                   $300,000              $0             $300,000
3 Fellows.             $310,695           ($10,695)         $300,000
$179,381,987        ($94,897)       $179,287,090
($94,897)
Total          $179,287,090
Cancellation          $70,618,013                          $70,712,910
Total Loan           $250,000,000                         $250,000,000



53
Annex 2
Page 5
Appendix 2, Page 1
to Plan of Operation
Medium- and Long-term Lending by lTe of Investment and Recipient in Numbers of
Leans  d Th Billion
Breakdown of MLT Loans by Type of Investment and Recipient
Type of        Loans to   Loans to  Loans to  Loans to  Total    Total
Investment       Ind.        Ind.      TKK       TKK    Loans    Loans TL
Farmers   Farmers   Number  TL bill.  Number  bill.
Number    TL bill.
Tractors           32684       1287         0         0    32684        1287
Livestock          32799        539    12442         96    45241         635
Breeding
Agricult.          13379         62    99799        498    113178        560
Equipment
Crop Pro-          14352        126      1573        21     15925        147
duction
On-Farm             3024         46         0         0      3024         46
Water
Managemt.                                                        _
Total              96238       2060   113814        615   210052        2675



54
Annex 2
Page 6
Appendix 2, Page 2
to Plan of Operation
Medium- and Long-term Lending by Type of Investment and Recipient in Percent
Breakdown of MLT Loans by Type of Investment and Recipient                    l
Type of        Loans to    Loans to    Loans to   Loans to    Total    Total
Investmt         Ind.        Ind.        TKK        TKK       Loans   Loans
Farmers    Farmers      Number   TL bill.  Number    TL
Number      TL bill.    Percent    Perc.      Perc.     bill.
Percent     Percent                                    Perc.
Tractors            34.0        62.5           0         0      15.6    48.1
Livestock           34.1         26.2       10.9      15.7      21.5    23.7
Breeding                     _                                                l
Agricult.           13.9          3.0       87.7      81.0      53.9    20.9
Equipment                                                                     l
Crop Pro-           14.9         6.1         1.4       3.3       7.6      5.5
duction
On-Farm              3.1          2.2          0         0       1.4      1.8
Water
Managemt.
Total              100.0        100.0      100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0



55
Annex 2
Page 7
Appendix 3
to Plan of Operation
Short-term Lending by Tvpe of Lending and Recipient
in Numbers of Loans and TL Billion and in Percent
Short-term Loans by Type of Utilization and Recipient
Type of         Loans to    Loans to   Loans to   Loans     Total      Total
Investmt          Ind.        Ind.       TKK    to TKK    Loans    Loans
Farmers    Farmers    Number  TL bill.  Number          TL
Number      TL bill.                                   bill.
Crop Pro-         698868         1992   287201       694     986069    2686
duction
Livestock         626682         1828    138356      319     765038    2147
Fattening
Fertilizer        169965          506   130765       322     300730      828
Total            1495515         4327   556322      1335    2051837    5662
Short-term Loans by Type of Utilization and Recipient
Type of         Loans to    Loans to    Loans to   Loans    Total    Total
Investmt          Ind.        Ind.        TKK      to TKK    Loans   Loans
Farmers    Farmers    Number   TL bill.  Number    TL
Number      TL bill.    Percent    Perc.    Perc.    bill.
Percent     Percent                                   Perc.
Crop Pro-            46.7        46.1        51.6     52.0      48.0  47.5
duction
Livestock            41.9        42.2        24.9     23.9      37.3  37.9
Fattening
Fertilizer           11.4        11.7        23.5     24.1      14.7  14.6
Total               100.0       100.0       100.0    100.0    100.0  100.0



56
Annex 3
Page 1
Summary of Borrower's Evaluation and Project Impact
The Third Agricultural Credit Project
The measures taken by the Government for financial and economic aspects in 1980 and
implementation policies aiming at strengthening the credit institutions and increasing the credit
supply especially to small and medium scale farms made it necessary to supply new financial
resources for all sectors. For this reason, the Third Agricultural Credit Project came into the
agenda following the First and Second Agricultural Credit Projects (TU-1248 and TU-2318)
which had been implemented by TCZB.
The aim of this Project was to reach the development targets of the Government and
progressing the agricultural sector supporting policy of the Bank' by providing the Institutional
development of TCZB and TKK; strengthening the credit allocation system; increasing the credit
demand and supply; and improving the agricultural productivity.
45 Provinces were included in the Project at the preparation stage. After some of the
subprovinces became provinces, the number increased to 52. The Project provinces were
determined by adding some of the provinces of the two agricultural extension projects (TU-2405
and TU-3177), in order to provide technical staff support, to the Second Agricultural Credit
Project provinces.
Treasury requested the loan amount to be increased form USD 270 million to USD 300
million in 1989, but this amount was decreased to USD 250 million due to the limits in the
credit program of the IBRD set forth in that year for Turkey. The loan amount has reached to
approximately USD 500 million with the funds provided from Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund of Japan (OECF) amounting to JPY 35.2 billion (approximately USD 250 million) for the
co-finance of the Project. Therefore, 41 % of the project cost, which was estimated to be USD
1,226 million in appraisal of the Project, could be financed.
Loan Agreement between IBRD and the Government and Project Agreement between
IBRD and TCZB were signed on June 28, 1989.
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement was signed on October 10, 1989 between the
Government and TCZB. According to this agreement concluded in conformity with the Loan
and Project Agreements, principal installment payments would be made semi-annually between
the dates March 15, 1995 and September 15, 2006, current interest rates would be applied to
the credits to be opened to the farmers and four points would be deducted from these rates as
the Bank's share and the remaining amount would be paid to the Government.
1/ The Bank referred to in this paper is TCZB.



,7
Annex 3
Page 2
Cooperation protocol made with the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs related
with the Implementation of the Project were signed on November 19, 1989 and June 20, 1990
and became effective as of July 1, 1988. The Bank made use of the studies of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Affairs related with technical parameters and cost prices in the preparation
of crop budgets and investment models.
Although it was foreseen during the appraisal of the Project that the TKK would disburse
the Project funds to its members directly, it was decided with the objection of TCZB, acceptance
of TKK and approval of the Treasury that the funds would be disbursed through TCZB, since
TKK was not ready to run such a system both institutionally and structurally. A credit
disbursement and cooperation protocol was signed between TCZB and TKK Central Union on
December 25, 1986.
From the proceeds of the IBRD loan, USD 23.1 million was for short term credits, USD
226.3 million for medium and long term credits and USD 0.6 million for consultancies and
fellowships. The Loan became effective in November 1989. First withdrawal from the Loan
was realized in January 1990.
The targeted inflation rates realized at higher levels impeding to fulfill the positive
interest rate covenant of the Project, USD 155.6 million of USD 226.3 million of the fund
allocated for medium and long term lendings was totally utilized as of August 31, 1992, and the
remaining USD 70.7 million, was cancelled. 78.7% of the credits were extended to the Bank's
clients and 21.3% were extended to the cooperative members as of August 31, 1992. Credit
disbursements were continued only from the OECF source after this date.
USD 250 million credit opened by IBRD was aimed to be utilized in 4 years.
On-lending Schedule (Million USD)                     l
1990           1991            1992            1993
Estimation              78   T         138             207            243
Realization             97.1           154.0           179.1          179.3
Within the actual disbursement period of the Project, 2,051,837 short term credits were opened
amounting to TL 5,661.7 billion. 23.6% for this amount was extended by TKK and 76.4% by
the Bank. TL 88.7 billion equivalent of USD 23.1 million allocated from the IBRD source for
short term lendings, was extended to the farmers with 19,394 lendings. 49.3% and 9.8% of this
amount was disbursed for crop production, livestock production and fertilizer, respectively.
210,052 medium and long term credits were opened amounting to TL 2,675.2 billion.
22% of this amount was extended by TKK and 78% by the Bank. Of the total medium and long



58
Annex 3
Page 3
term credits, 5.5% was opened for crop investment, 23.& % for livestock investment, 48.1% for
tractor, 20.(% for agricultural equipment and 1.7% for land-water.
TCZB made monitoring and evaluation studies for both short and medium-long term
credits during the Project implementation. It was observed that the equities of the monitored
farmers, who were extended short term credits, have increased by 33.1 %, 18.7% and 74.5%
in 1991, 1992, and 1993, respectively, against the figures of the previous year. Monitoring
studies on the farmers who were extended medium- and long-term credits showed that only two
investment models out of 14 had lower financial rate of return than the foreseen 12%.
Chief Technical Advisor (CTA), who was selected from the candidates proposed by
FAO, which undertook the Training and Consultancy Services of the Third Agricultural Credit
Project, started his studies in July 1992. Two other consultants, one of whom was expert on
"Human Resources Development, Registration and Information System" worked at Personnel
Department, which the other being an expert on "Internal Auditing" worked at the Inspection
Board. In addition to his studies on Management Information Systems (MIS), the CTA also
supervised the other consultants and took part in the organization of the study tours realized
under the Project. All the consultancy services under the Project were completed before the
closing date of the Project after one extension on December 31, 1993, six months after the
planned closing date. The consultants submitted their reports to the Bank Management.
Moreover, the study tours organized under the project on Management Information System,
Training of Trainers, Internal Auditing, Agricultural Credits, Human Resources Development
and Training of Branch Managers were successfully completed and were useful to the Bank.
According to the Supplemental Letter No. 1 to the Loan Agreement, the Government
would make contributions so as to raise the ratio of the net worth of TCZB to its average total
assets to 5%, 5.5% and 6 as of the end of 1989, 1990, and 1991, respectively. Realization
about this ratio by the years is given below.
(Billion TL)       1989          1990           1991        1992       1993
Net Worth (A)         1,113         2,317          5,222    11,142     20,599
Ave. Total           17,484        27,147         42,562    76,440    138,899
Assets    (B)
A/B                   6.4%          8.5%          12.2%     14.6%      14.8%
Recovery ratio in the Project implementation provinces were realized as 72%, 77.2%,
83.3% and 87.6% in 1990, 1991, 1992, and 1993, respectively. Recovery ratios in the other
provinces realized were closer to these figures. The recoveries of the loans under legal follow-



59
Annex 3
Page 4
up have continuously increased and the recovery ratio for these credits reached 52% in 1993,
which was 26% in 1989.
The Third Agricultural Credit Project provided significant support to TCZB to meet its
financial requirements. Although the Project implementation period has ended, during the
operation period, the funds received from collections will continue to be extended to the farmers
as credits on the Project subjects until the repayment is completed. The same applies for the
OECCF loan.
All the parties in the Project are of the opinon that the Project had clear and attainable
objectives, and the Project objectives about increasing farm productivity and farmers' income
through the extended agricultural credit facilities and financing the productive investments at the
farm level were reached. The Project also made important contributions to the institutional
developments of TCZB and TKK. TCZB disbursed 96,000 direct medium and long term credits
which were much more than the foreseen amount, 40,000, and this great difference was the
outcome of the utilization of the fund provided from OECF as co-finance of the Project. The
Project was very beneficial by enabling TCZB to disburse medium- and long-term investment
credits to this extent.
TCZB would like to thank IEBRD, FAO, Undersecretariat of the Treasury and Foreign
Trade, Ministry of Agricultural and Rural Affairs and Central Union of the Agricultural Credit
Cooperatives for their contributions in the realization of this Project.



60                               Annex A
Page 1
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PRIME MINISTRY
THE UNDERSECRETARIAT OF TREASURY
1 .ACNUr.:-t
Ref:DEI-IV-2/78 / c 0
Mr. James T. GOERING
Division Chief, EC1
Agriculture & Environment Operations
The World Bank
Re: Your facsimile transmission dated January 9, 1995
Dear Mr. GOERING:
We would like to inform you that, on the Borrower's side, we do not have any
additional comments on the Draft Project Completion Report prepared by the World
Bank for the Third Agricultural Credit Project.
As it has been expressed during the last mission's visit, we believe that the loan
and the project activities have addressed a wide base of farmers in a timely manner and
has had considerable success in this sector.
We would also like to take this opportunity to thank you and the project staff for
the hard work undertaken and close cooperation achieved during the project period
and would like to send you and your colleagues our best wishes for the new year.
Sincerely yours,
cc.   Mr. Fred TEMPLE
Chief, World Bank Resident Mission in Ankara, Turkey  r
Elo  of pspartm@lt



MAP SECTION






IBRD 26189
30"                   35'                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40         GEORGI 
BULGARIA                                                                                                                                                  IA 3b<qih0  ..,x E R 
a 3~~~~~~~~~~~LACK SEA     j  s , .@
,_ g  275L%       (---<---t   <'   //                           4k-;'' ( ;THIRD AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
>  <   G >  ' 8   /   (      <       <    \'__  %              +t>toh                     ~~~~~~~~Project Provinces At The End Of 1993              3
o 4 , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT PROVINCES
_REE -  ,l                                                                                                          SELECTED TOWNSAND VILLAGES
@         ~~~MEDITERRANEAN SEA                                                                                        PROVINCE CAPITALS
e;                                  ,X                t                                   69~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NATIONAL CAPITAL
n@>Ssoelos .O        MLE5        50      l0      150                                                                       30         M J-  hOR ROADS
_h  30-                          < (f       35-              J                             305       Province nsmes are the ssme cs provlece ccpec is~~~~~~~~on,s oe te sme s povne cpo!
OCTOEER i 991



