Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED  COPY
                                           LOAN NUMBER 3090 TU
                (Third Agricultural Credit Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 28, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3090 TU
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June  28,  1989,  between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  the Project will be  carried  out by Turkiye Cumhuriyeti
Ziraat Bankasi (TCZB) with the  Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower  will  make available to TCZB the
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and  in  the  Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and TCZB;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions, in the Preamble
to this Agreement  and  in  the  Project  Agreement referred to in
paragraph (a)  herein  have  the  respective  meanings therein set
forth  and  the  following  additional  terms  have  the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and TCZB of even date  herewith,  as  the same may be amended from
time to time, and such  term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between  the  Borrower  and  TCZB pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as  the  same may be amended from time
to time, and such  term  includes  all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
     (c)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the Loan
Agreement, an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to two
hundred fifty million dollars ($250,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in  accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made)  in  respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for  the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be  financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Central Bank
of Turkey  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1993 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one percent (1/2  of  1%)  per annum above the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings for  the  last  Semester  ending prior to the
commencement of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
Page  3
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other  obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause TCZB to perform  in  accordance  with  the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the  obligations  of TCZB therein set forth,
shall  take  or  cause  to  be  taken  all  action,  including the
provision of  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other resources,
necessary  or  appropriate   to   enable   TCZB  to  perform  such
obligations, and shall not take  or  permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend  the  proceeds  of the Loan to
TCZB under a subsidiary loan  agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and TCZB, under terms and conditions which shall have
been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Bank.
     (c)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to accomplish the
purposes of the  Loan,  and,  except  as  the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     (d)  The Borrower shall provide TCZB with equity contribution
at a level  which  shall  enable  TCZB  to maintain an appropriate
ratio of net worth to average total assets.
     Section 3.02. The Borrower shall  cause MAFRA to conclude the
MAFRA Protocol with TCZB, and  to  assign  to the Project area the
staff  required  for  the  implementation  of  the  monitoring and
evaluation activities under the Project.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  shall  cause MAFRA to: (a) audit,
at least once every two  fiscal  years, the accounts and financial
statements of the  TKK  and  the  individual cooperatives partici-
pating in the provision of credit  under  Part B of the project in
accordance  with  appropriate   auditing  principles  consistently
applied, and (b) furnish  to  TCZB  the  report  of such audit not
later than nine months after the  end  of the fiscal year in which
such audit was undertaken.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out at least an annual
Page  4
review of the appopriateness of  agricultural interest rates on an
agreed basis.
     Section 3.05.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
     Section 3.06. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules  and  records  and reports, respec-
tively) shall be carried out  by  TCZB pursuant to Section 2.04 of
the Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one  year  after  the  Bank  has received the
               audit report for the fiscal  year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year  the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have  reasonably  requested, including a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements  of  expenditure  submitted  during such
               fiscal  year,  together  with  the  procedures  and
               internal controls  involved  in  their preparation,
               support the related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  TCZB have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
Page  5
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make it  improbable  that  TCZB will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The statute of TCZB,  published  on November 9, 1984 and
issued pursuant to Law  No.  233  of  the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or  waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of TCZB to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of TCZB or for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall  have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
behalf of the Borrower and TCZB;
     (b)  the Project Credit Guidelines  have  been adopted by the
TCZB;
     (c)  the MAFRA Protocol has  been  concluded between TCZB and
MAFRA; and
     (d)  a directive  has  been  issued  establishing a procedure
satisfactory to the Bank for the review and adjustment of interest
rates on  agricultural  loans  pursuant  to  Section  3.04 of this
Agreement.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project  Agreement  has been duly authorized or
ratified by TCZB, and is  legally  binding upon TCZB in accordance
with its terms; and
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized and executed by  the  Borrower  and TCZB and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and TCZB in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03.  The  date  120  days  after  the  date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Undersecretary  of the Treasury and Foreign
Trade of  the  Borrower  is  designated  as  representative of the
Page  6
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Basbakanlik
          Hazine Ve Dis Ticaret Mustesarligi
          Vekaletler Caddesi No. 3
          Bakanliklar, Ankara
          Republic of Turkey
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               HAZINE,                      821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
               Ankara                       821-42689 (ANK-TR)
     For the Bank
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                     REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
                     By /s/ N. K. Kilic
                                         Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ W. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in        Expenditures
Page  7
    Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans under
     Part B of the
     Project:
     (a)  Short-term          23,100,000        35% of the in-
          sub-loans                             cremental
                                                amounts dis-
                                                bursed
     (b)  Medium- and        226,300,000        45% of total
          long-term                             amounts dis-
          sub-loans                             bursed
(2)  Consultants'                300,000        100%
     services
(3)  Fellowships                 300,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
                             ___________
          TOTAL              250,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the  term  "incremental  amounts  disbursed"  means  the
amounts by which total disbursement by TCZB in the Project area in
any calendar quarter  for  short-term  sub-loans (whether financed
from the Loan or not)  exceeds,  in  real terms, the total of such
disbursements in the same calendar  quarter in the preceding year.
For this purpose, TCZB  shall  furnish  to  the Bank, prior to the
start of disbursement in  any  calendar quarter under Category (1)
(a), a statement  which  shall:  (a)  indicate  the  total of such
disbursement in nominal terms  in  the  calendar quarter for which
such statement is furnished  and  in  the same calendar quarter of
the preceding year; and (b)  show  the increase in disbursement in
real terms by adjusting  total  disbursement  in the same calendar
quarter of the preceding year by the change in the wholesale price
index of Turkey over  the  twelve-month  period  to the end of the
calendar quarter, if  available,  for  which  such  a statement is
furnished or over the most recent available twelve-month period.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate  amount  not exceeding the equivalent
of $25,000,000 may be made  under  Category (1) in the table shown
in  paragraph  1  above  on  account  of  payments  made  for such
expenditures before that date but  after  July 1, 1988; and (b) no
withdrawals shall be made  under  said  Category  (1) for (i) sub-
loans provided through TKK  to  its member cooperatives before the
TKK Agreement is in  force  and  effect;  or (ii) sub-loans to any
such cooperatives  which  do  not  meet  the  eligibility criteria
referred to in Part  B  (2)  (c)  of  the  Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
Page  8
     The objectives of the Project  are: (i) to further strengthen
the institutional capabilities of  TCZB  and the credit operations
of the TKK; and  (ii)  to  increase farm productivity and farmers'
income through  expanded  access  to  agricultural  credit and the
financing of productive investments at the farm level.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Agricultural Credit Institutions
1.   Implementation of  TCZB's  institutional  development program
specified in the  Action  Plan,  including: (a) studies concerning
the analysis  of  overdue  and  non-performing  agricultural loans
and the valuation  of  TCZB's  portfolio  of equity participation;
(b) refinement  of  monitoring  and  evaluation  systems;  and (c)
improvement  of  cost  accounting  and  programming  and budgeting
systems.
2.   The adoption and implementation  by  TKK, with the assistance
of TCZB, of  institutional  development  measures specified in the
TKK Agreement, including  the  introduction  of new procedures for
the appraisal and supervision of short, medium and long-term loans
to its members.
3.   Provision of about 200  four-wheel  drive vehicles for TCZB's
field services.
4.   Provision of  about  40  fellowships  for specialized foreign
training  to  supplement  TCZB's  staff  training  program related
to  the  improvement  of   staff  skills  in  banking  operations,
agricultural lending and data processing.
Part B:   Agricultural Credit
     The provision to farmers,  and  to member cooperatives of TKK
eligible  under  the  provisions  of  the  TKK  Agreement,  in the
provinces shown in the Annex  to this Schedule, of short-term sub-
loans for farm production inputs  and of medium and long-term sub-
loans  for  productive  farm  investments  in  farm mechanization,
livestock and horticulture and related activities.
                           *   *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.
                        ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
                  Provinces for the Provision of
                Credit Under Part B of the Project
     Except as the Bank and  the Borrower may otherwise agree, the
following are the Regions  and  Provinces constituting the Project
Area:
     Region                            Province
(a)  Marmara                            1-   Bursa
                                        2-   Edirne
                                        3-   Kirklareli
                                        4-   Tekirdag
(b)  Aegean                             5-   Balikesir
                                        6-   Burdur
                                        7-   Canakkale
                                        8-   Denizli
                                        9-   Isparta
                                       10-   Izmir
                                       11-   Manisa
                                       12-   Mugla
Page  9
(c)  North Central                     13-   Ankara
                                       14-   Cankiri
                                       15-   Corum
                                       16-   Eskisehir
                                       17-   Kutahya
(d)  South Central                     18-   Afyon
                                       19-   Kayseri
                                       20-   Konya
                                       21-   Nevsehir
                                       22-   Nigde
                                       23-   Yozgat
                                       24-   Kirsehir
(e)  Mediterranean                     25-   Adana
                                       26-   Antalya
                                       27-   Icel (Mersin)
     Region                            Province
(f)  East Central                      28-   Amasya
                                       29-   Sivas
                                       30-   Tokat
(g)  Northeast                         31-   Agri
                                       32-   Erzincan
                                       33-   Kars
                                       34-   Erzurum
(h)  Southeast                         35-   Bitlis
                                       36-   Diyarbakir
                                       37-   Mardin
                                       38-   Siirt
                                       39-   Sanliurfa
                                       40-   Van
                                       41-   Hatay
                                       42-   Gaziantep
                                       43-   Adiyaman
                                       44-   Kahramanmaras
                                       45-   Malatya
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
     beginning March 15, 1995
     through   March 15, 2006                     10,415,000
On September 15, 2006                             10,455,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
     Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
Page  10
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                         0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                         0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                           0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                        0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years before                         1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  Categories" means Categories (1)(b),
(2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $30,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits  into   the   Special   Account  at  such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to para-
                graph  4  of  this  Schedule  for  the  payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on  behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw
Page  11
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have
                requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the Loan
Account under  the  respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in the
respective equivalent amounts,  as  shall  have  been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the  General  Conditions,  shall  equal  the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the   Loan   allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment  out  of  the  Special   Account:  (i)  was  made  for  an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the Bank,  the  Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A)  provide  such  additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit  into  the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to  the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or  the  portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  no further
deposit by the Bank into  the  Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided  such  evidence  or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
Page  12
