Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3090 TU
                (Third Agricultural Credit Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI
                        Dated June 28, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3090 TU
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June  28,  1989,  between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND   DEVELOPMENT   (the  Bank)  and  TURKIYE
CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI (TCZB).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between Republic of Turkey (the  Borrower)  and the Bank, the Bank
has agreed to make available to  the Borrower an amount in various
currencies  equivalent  to  two   hundred  fifty  million  dollars
($250,000,000), on the terms and  conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that TCZB agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and TCZB,  the  proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to TCZB on the
terms and conditions set forth  in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and
     WHEREAS TCZB, in  consideration  of  the Bank's entering into
Page  2
the Loan Agreement with the  Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "MAFRA" means the Ministry  of Agriculture, Forestry and
Rural Affairs of the Borrower;
     (b)  "TKK" means  the  Central  Union  of agricultural credit
cooperatives  of  the   Borrower,   operating  under  the  General
supervision of MAFRA;
     (c)  "Credit  Guidelines"   means   the  Agricultural  Credit
Guidelines adopted by TCZB, as  the  same may be amended from time
to time and the term  "Project Credit Guidelines" means the credit
guidelines and procedures to  be  adopted  by TCZB for the Project
area pursuant to Section 2.01 (d) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "MAFRA Protocol"  means  the  protocol  to  be concluded
between TCZB  and  MAFRA  pursuant  to  Section  2.01  (c) of this
Agreement;
     (e)  "TKK Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to  be concluded
between  TCZB  and  TKK  pursuant  to  Section  2.01  (c)  of this
Agreement;
     (f)  "Policy Statement" means the Policy Statement adopted by
TCZB  on  May  4,  1989  and  providing  for  the  main principles
governing its operations;
     (g)  "Action Plan" means the  Action  Plan adopted by TCZB on
December 19, 1986, as the same  may  be amended from time to time,
specifying TCZB's institutional development program;
     (h)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made  or  proposed to be made by
TCZB from the proceeds  of  the  Loan  or  from other resources in
accordance with the  procedures  described  in  the Project Credit
Guidelines and in the Schedule to this Agreement;
     (i)  "Lira" or "TL" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (j)  "Project area" means the  provinces  listed in the Annex
to Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement; and
     (k)  "Previous Loan" means the  amount  available to TCZB for
the provision of agricultural credit  in the Project area from the
proceeds of the loan provided by the Bank under the Loan Agreement
between Republic of  Turkey  and  the  Bank  for the Erzurum Rural
Development Project, dated March 5, 1982.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section  2.01.  (a)  TCZB  declares  its  commitment  to  the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and,  to  this  end,  shall  carry  out  the Project in
cooperation with MAFRA and TKK,  with due diligence and efficiency
and  in  conformity   with   appropriate  engineering,  financial,
administrative  and  agricultural  practices,  and  shall provide,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
Page  3
     (b)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as TCZB  and the Bank may otherwise agree,
TCZB shall carry out  the  Project  in  accordance with the imple-
mentation program set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
     (c)  TCZB  shall   conclude   under   terms   and  conditions
satisfactory to the Bank:  (i)  a  protocol  with MAFRA (the MAFRA
Protocol)  for  the  coordination  of  MAFRA's  activities  toward
achieving the objectives of sub-loans provided under Part B of the
Project; and (ii) an agreement  with TKK (the TKK Agreement) which
shall set forth:  (A)  the  conditions  for the provision, through
TKK, of sub-loans to its  member  cooperatives under Part B of the
Project and the  assistance  to  be  extended  by  TCZB  to TKK in
connection therewith; and (B) the  obligation  of TKK to carry out
Part A (2) of the Project.
     (d)  TCZB  shall  adopt  the  Project  Credit  Guidelines for
application in the  Project  area,  which shall include principles
and procedures for the provision  of sub-loans satisfactory to the
Bank, including those set forth in  Part  B (1) of the Schedule to
this Agreement.
     (e)  Except as the Bank may  otherwise agree, TCZB shall not,
until the completion of the Project, abrogate or repeal the Policy
Statement, the Credit  Guidelines,  the Project Credit Guidelines,
the MAFRA Protocol or  the  TKK  Agreement, or make any amendments
thereto which would, in  the  opinion  of the Bank, materially and
adversely affect the carrying out by TCZB of its obligations under
this  Agreement  or  the  achievement  of  the  objectives  of the
Project.
     Section 2.02. TCZB shall  (a)  carry  out the Action Plan and
the training program referred to in  Part  A  (1) and A (4) of the
Project, respectively, under  arrangements  and in accordance with
time schedules satisfactory to the Bank; (b) carry out the studies
referred to in said  Part  A  (1)  of  the  Project under terms of
reference satisfactory to the  Bank,  and ensure the completion of
such studies and the furnishing to  the Bank of their findings and
recommendations by the  dates  indicated  in  the Action Plan; and
(c) exchange views thereafter with  the  Bank  on the action to be
taken for the implementation of such recommendations.
     Section 2.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works  and  services to be financed from
the proceeds  of  sub-loans  shall  be  governed  by the provision
specified in the Schedule to this Agreement.
     (b)  In order to assist TCZB in the carrying out of Part A of
the Project, TCZB  shall  employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  The  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
     Section 2.04. TCZB shall carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06  and  9.07, of the General Conditions
(relating to  insurance,  use  of  goods  and  services, plans and
schedules and records and reports  respectively) in respect of the
Project.
     Section 2.05. TCZB  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as  the Bank shall
otherwise agree, TCZB shall not take or concur in any action which
would  have  the  effect  of  amending,  abrogating,  assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.06. (a) TCZB  shall,  at  the  request of the Bank,
exchange views  with  the  Bank  with  regard  to  progress of the
Project, the performance of  its  obligations under this Agreement
Page  4
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  TCZB shall promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment  of  the  purposes of Loan, or the
performance by TCZB of  its  obligations  under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) TCZB  shall  maintain records and accounts,
including separate records  and  accounts  for disbursements under
the  sub-loans,  adequate  to  reflect  in  accordance  with sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  TCZB shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each  such  year:  (A)  certified  copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited;
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     Section 3.02. TCZB shall introduce measures to strengthen its
internal  auditing  procedures,   including   the  undertaking  of
internal auditing of the records  and  accounts of TCZB's main and
medium-size branches at least once a  year and at least once every
two years with respect to other branches of TCZB.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of TCZB thereunder shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify TCZB thereof.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
Page  5
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For TCZB:
          T.C. Ziraat Bankasi
          Genel Mudurlugu
          Bankalar Cadderi
          Ankara, Turkey
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               ZERBANK                         821 44004
               Ankara
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of TCZB, or  by TCZB on behalf of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Chairman
and General Director or such  other  person or persons as he shall
designate  in  writing,  and  TCZB   shall  furnish  to  the  Bank
sufficient  evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ W. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI
                    By /s/ N. K. Kilic
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                      Implementation Program
A.   Part A of the Project
Page  6
     TCZB shall implement the  Action  Plan  referred to in Part A
(1) of the  Project  in  accordance  with  arrangements and a time
schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
B.   Part B of the Project
     Except  as  the  Bank  and  TCZB  may  otherwise  agree,  the
following arrangements will  be  followed  in  the carrying out of
Part B of the Project.
1.   Provision of sub-loans through TCZB:
     (a)  TCZB shall coordinate the approval of Sub-Loans so as to
ensure that  funds  available  for  the  provision of agricultural
credit in  the  Project  area  under  the  Previous  Loan  will be
utilized prior to disbursements from  the  proceeds of the Loan on
account of Sub-Loans.
     (b)  TCZB shall provide Sub-Loans  to  farmers in the Project
area  in  accordance  with  terms  and  principles  and procedures
described in the Credit  Guidelines  and  amplified in the Project
Credit Guidelines. The procedures  to  be followed in the approval
and administration of  Sub-Loans  shall  include,  inter alia, the
following:
          (i)  Appraisal: Sub-Loan applications  will be appraised
               to   determine   their   technical   and  financial
               viability. The short-term (ST) production Sub-Loans
               will be appraised on  the  basis  of a typical crop
               budget, to  be  updated  semi-annually,  which will
               reflect  recommended   technology   in  the  region
               concerned. Medium-  and  long-term  Sub-Loans (MLT)
               for investments costing not more than TL 50 million
               (expressed in 1988 Lira)  will  be appraised on the
               basis of a  typical  investment  model,  and on the
               basis of individual farm  plans for investments the
               cost of which exceeds  that  level. A 10% sample of
               ST  Sub-Loan  application   will   be  reviewed  by
               agricultural technicians and  every application for
               MLT  Sub-Loan  will  be  reviewed  by  professional
               staff. A farmer will  be considered as creditworthy
               if his proposed production or investment is viable,
               and if he  has  adequate  repayment  capacity and a
               satisfactory   repayment    record   and   provides
               appropriate security.
         (ii)  Repayment terms: Interest  shall  be charged on the
               Sub-Loans at  the  rates  specified  in  the Credit
               Guidelines,  the  term  of  ST  Sub-Loans  will not
               normally exceed one year  and  the term of MLT Sub-
               Loans will be  related  to  the  useful life of the
               inputs financed, the  cash  flow resulting from the
               investment and the cash flow of the farm. The grace
               period, if any,  will  be  related to the estimated
               cash flow during the start-up period.
        (iii)  Supervision:  supervision  will  be  made  in close
               cooperation with the extension  service of MAFRA to
               identify  borrowers  encountering  problems  in the
               implementation of  their  production  or investment
               activities and  refer  them  to  sources of advice.
               Supervision  will  also   aim   at  monitoring  the
               appropriate and safe use  of pesticides. Any farmer
               identified as using pesticides in a manner which is
               unsafe  or  harmful  to  the  environment  will  be
               required,  in  order  to  be  eligible  to  receive
               further Sub-Loans, to take corrective measures.
         (iv)  Evaluation: evaluation  will  be  made to determine
               the impact of  production and investment activities
               on  farm  output   and   income.   The  results  of
Page  7
               evaluation will be utilized in revising the typical
               crop budget or investment models or individual farm
               plans used  in  future  appraisals.  The evaluation
               works will be  directed  by  the central monitoring
               and  evaluation  unit   in   the  Project  Analysis
               Department  of   TCZB   and   the   monitoring  and
               evaluation service at  the Regional Directorates of
               MAFRA.
          (v)  Procurement:  goods,  works   and  services  to  be
               financed from the  proceeds  of  Sub-Loans shall be
               procured through commercial channels.
     (c)  TCZB shall regularly review its staffing requirements in
the Project area with  a  view  to  ensuring that each province in
such area is assigned  the  number of agricultural technicians and
university-level staff necessary for  the  operation of the TCZB's
credit facilities.
2.   Provision of Credit through TKK:
     (a)  TKK  shall  assign  for  the  operation  of  its  credit
services under the  Project  staff  comparable,  in terms of their
qualifications and staffing ratios,  to those maintained by TCZB's
branches operating in the Project area.
     (b)  Sub-Loans shall be provided  by  TKK under terms similar
to those specified in the Credit Guidelines and the Project Credit
Guidelines.
     (c)  TKK shall identify  each  year the cooperatives eligible
for  Sub-Loans  under  the  Project.  To  be  eligible,  each such
cooperative would have to  satisfy the following criteria, namely,
that: (i) it collected in the  previous  year not less than 75% of
its dues (net of  rescheduling);  (ii)  it realized profits in the
previous  two  years;  (iii)  its  equity,  consisting  of paid-in
capital, free reserves and  funds  and undistributed profits, was,
at the  end  of  the  previous  year,  not  less  than  20% of the
outstanding amount of  loans  provided  to  its  members; (iv) its
borrowing from TCZB did  not  exceed,  at  the end of the previous
year, the amount of  current  outstanding amount of loans provided
to members; (v) it was  audited  by  MAFRA or the Central Union of
TKK at least  once  in  the  previous  two  years, with no serious
financial and/or management irregularities  reported; and (vi) its
general assembly and management committee  had met in the previous
year and has formally approved its annual accounts.
3.   Further onlending:
     Payments made to  TCZB  in  debt  service under the Sub-Loans
shall be used by TCZB, to the extent that they are not required to
meet  its  debt  service  obligations  under  the  Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, in the  provision  of  Sub-Loans  for the same purposes
referred to in Part B of the Project.
C.   Reporting
     TCZB shall prepare, in  cooperation  with TKK, and furnish to
the Bank:  (1)  semi-annual  reports  on  the  progress of project
implementation,  and  (2)  on  the  basis  of  the  monitoring and
evaluation activities  under  the  Project,  a mid-term evaluation
report, to be prepared by March 31, 1990.
