DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK qOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEV"tONLASSO'IATION
Not For Public Use
Rzrt No. PA-150a
APPRAISAL OF
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
IRAQ
May 22, 1973
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and
North Africa Regional Office
ITh roport wu pepaed for official us only by the Bank Group. It may not be publshed, quoted
or cited widhut Batk Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibiity for the
accuacy or completeneu of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00    a    Iraqi Dinars (ID) 0.296
ID 1.00    -    US$3.38
ID 1.00    -    1,000 file
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 hectare (ha)     a    4 donums, or 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (Im)   -    0.62 miles
1 squari kilometer
(km )          -    100 hectares
I mater (m)        -    3.28 feet
1 kilogram (kg)    -    2.21 pounds
1ton               -    1,000 kg
1 hectoliter (hl)  -    3.53 cubic feet
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



IRAQ
APPRAISAL OF
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS      ...................l-ii
I.  INTRODUCTION ..........................
II.  BACKGROUND ............................................    2
A.  General        .............................          2
B.  Foodgrain Production Trends ................          2
Production Constraints ...............          2
Production and Imports ...............          3
Consumption ....................                3   -
Production Organization ..     ...................   3
Foodgrain Wholesale Prices ..............       4
C.  The Present Grain Marketing System ..     .............   4
Government Policies ................... ......    4
Private Traders .............................   5
Cooperative Societies          .       .        5
Flour  Mills   .................................  6
The Grain Board .............................   6
III.   FUTURE  TRENDS   .........................................  7
A.  Production, Consumption and Imports ..............    7
Production ....................                 7
Consumption .. .......... .... .................   8
Imports   .................  . . ...................  8
B.   A Balanced Grain Marketing System ................   8
Projected Storage Requirements ..............   9
Grain Standards and Grading ............        9
IV.  THE  PROJECT   ...........................................  10
A.   Summary Description      ..........      o ........  10
B.   Detailed Features ......    .........................  11
Terminal  Silos   ............ .. .............  11
Gathering  Silos   .................   o..........  11
Expansion of Existing Silos ............... ..  11
This report was prepared by Messrs. R. H. Frank and S. K. Bhatia (Bank),
with contributions by Messrs. J. Bloom and B. Merghoub (Bank) and Messrs. A.
Ackels, F. Adams, D. Anderson and P. Beard (Consultants). Mr. Thananart
(Computing Services Department - Bank) assisted in the programming and running
of the computerized grain storage model.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Pagqe No.
Expansion of Import Capacity .....          ...........   11
Common Features  .......        ......................   12
Engineering Consultants .....          ................   12
-  Automated Inventory Management System .......   12
Grain Marketing and Pricing Study ....         .......   13
Training Program .......         .....................   13
C.   Construction Schedule .......           .....................   13
D.   Cost Estimates .........         ..........................   13
E.   Financial Plan .         ..................................   15
F.   Procurement ...........        ...........................   15
G.   Disbursement ..........        ...........................   17
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...........................   17
A.   Grain Board Organization and Operation ...........   17
B.   Project Management ............... ................   18
C.   Project Accounts ................ .................   18
D.   Project Evaluation .......         ........................    19
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................   19
A.    Financial Results ................................   19
B.   Economic Justification ...........................   19
Quantitative Benefits .....          ..................   19
Economic Rate of Return .....          ................   21
Risk ...........       .............................   21
C.   Wholesale Foodgrain Prices .......................   22
D.   Regional Income Distribution .....            ................   23
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOM1ENDATION ....            .............   23
ANNEXES
1.   Grain Production and Consumption
2.   Grain Marketing and Pricing
3.   Grain Storage Losses and Hazards
4.   The Grain Board
5.   Projection of Future Grain Production, Consumption and
Marketable Quantity
6.   Future Grain Marketing in Iraq
7.   Determination of Storage Requirements of Grain Board
8.   Present and Proposed Grading Standards
9.   Detailed Description of Project Storage Facilities
10.   General Terms of Reference for Supervising Engineers
Ti.   Grain Board Inventory Management System and Terms of Reference
for Management Consultants



12.   Grain Pricing and Marketing Study (Objectives and TOR)
13.   Silo Personnel Training Program
14.   Project Schedule
15.   Silo Construction Cost Estimates
16.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
17.   Financial Results and Economic Rate of Return Calculations
MAP






APPRAISAL OF
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project to increase and improve the grain
storage and handling capability of the Iraqi Grain Board. Total project
cost is estimated at US$92 million, towards which a Bank loan of US$40 million
is proposed. The lack of efficient and adequate facilities in Iraq has result-
ed in excessive marketing and handling costs, excessive internal and ocean
transportation costs and grain storage losses. In addition, because of the
lack of sufficient storage capability, the Grain Board has been unable to
fulfill its role of lowering consumer and raising producer grain prices by
reducing marketing costs.
ii.       The proposed project would provide for the construction of 14 new
silos with a total capacity of 504,000 tons, expansion of four existing silos
by a total of 36,000 tons and an increase in the capability of import transfer
facilities including a 20,000-ton transfer terminal silo in the port of Um
Qasr. The total project storage capacity, 560,000 tons, provided over the next
six years, would allow the Grain Board to meet its projected 1980 storage re-
quirements. To improve the Grain Board's overall operation, a mechanized
inventory management system and a communication system would be installed.
Consulting services to assist the Grain Board in the construction of the
silos and the design and implementation of the inventory system would be part
of the project. Key silo management and operational personnel would be
thoroughly trained as part of the project before assuming their positions in
the new silo facilities. In addition, the project would include a study of
grain marketing and pricing and the implementation of an improved grain grad-
ing system.
iii.      The silo construction works, with the possible exception of some
equipment needed to expand three existing silos, costing about US$2.5 million,
would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding. The
construction contracts would contain geographically grouped silo works with
an average value of about US$10 million. International contractors are expect-
ted to win the bids.
iv.       The Grain Board, a state organization, is well organized and its
present silo facilities are well operated and maintained. Under the expanded
operations resulting from the project, the Grain Board would be able to con-
tinue to achieve a financial break-even buying and selling operation includ-
ing repayment of its capital investments. Within the Grain Board, the
Projects and Technical Departments, which are presently implementing grain
storage and processing projects financed under bilateral agreements, would
be expanded and assume responsibility for project implementation.



v.        Government considers the Grain Storage Project a most important
effort in its general plan to stimulate agriculture. Implementation of the
project would result in reduction of grain handling and marketing costs,
of internal transportation costs, of ocean shipping charges and grain
storage losses. The increased farmgate prices which should result from
the Grain Board's expanded marketing efforts are expected to increase wheat
and barley production. The increased farmgate prices and production would
principally benefit farmers in northern Iraq, a depressed region. The econo-
mic rate of return of the project would be about 14%. Furthermore, the added
storage capability would have the beneficial effect of allowing the Grain
Board to keep sufficient reserve stocks located throughout the country to
meet emergency demands of consumers.
i.        Satisfactory assurances have been obtained during negotiations and
the project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$40 million. The Borrower
would be the Government of Iraq and the loan would be repayable over 25 years
with a grace period of 6-3/4 years.



IRAQ
APPRAISAL OF
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECr
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Iraq has requested a Bank loan of US$40 million
for a project which would form an integral part of a long-range program to
expand and modernize the Grain Board's grain storage and marketing system.
Grain marketing and storage in Iraq has been dominated by an inadequate
and inefficient private trader system. Numerous marketing steps, storage
losses due to deficient facilities and traders' speculative profits result
in increased prices to consumers while, at the same time, producers' returns
are diminished through the high interest rates of the trader credit system-
and depressed prices at the time of harvest. The lower producer prices have
frustrated Government's attempt to stimulate agricultural production. The
additional storage facilities to be provided by the project would allow the
state-owned Grain Board to become more active in the purchase, storage and
supply of domestically produced wheat and barley and result in reduced
marketing and handling costs, storage losses and internal transportation
costs. The project would also improve the Grain Board's ability to receive,
store and distribute the imports of wheat and barley that are projected for
the foreseeable future.
1.02      Another project (Loan IRQ-878) in the agricultural sector, the
Lower Khalis Irrigation Project to assist Government in increasing agricul-
tural production, was approved by the Bank in January 1973 and Government
has requested the Bank's assistance in guiding a comprehensive study of Iraq's
land and water resources.
1.03      The need for additional modern storage facilities and an improved
grain marketing system was identified during a Bank Economic Survey Mission
in 1968. The Grain Storage Program feasibility report was prepared in 1971
by consulting firms, Iraq Consult (Iraq) and Scicon International (UK),
in conformity with terms of reference prepared by the Bank. This report is
based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising Messrs. Frank and
Bhatia (Bank), and Ackels, Adams, Anderson and Beard (Consultants), which
visited Iraq in January-February 1972. Mr. Thananart (Computing Services
Department, Bank) assisted in the prograunuing and running of the computerized
grain storage model.



II. BACKGROUND
A.  General-/
2
2.01      Iraq, with an area of about 435,000 km , has a population of
approximately 10 million (3.2% annual growth rate) of which about 60% live
in urban areas. Government is attempting to revitalize rural areas by
introducing land reform and industrialization to reduce the present high
migration to urban areas. GDP grew at about 5.4% per annum during 1966-69.
Oil accounts for over 90% of exports and provides about 35% of national
output. Per capita income (about US$329 in 1970) is low compared with
that in other major oil-producing countries of the region.
2.02      Agriculture is the second largest economic sector, contributing
about 20% to GDP and employing 55% of the labor force. During the last
decade, agricultural production, particularly of wheat and barley, increased
at only 5% per annum, compared with the planned target of 7.5%. This moderate
growth rate contributed in part to the slowdown in general economic expansion
during the 1960's. Foodstuffs comprised almost half of all consumer goods
imported during the past five years.
2.03      The present national plan (1970-74) calls for domestic self-
sufficiency in agricul'ural production, including wheat and barley. The
plan has an allocation of ID 337 million (US$1,139 million) for development
of the agricultural sector, including support for the Grain Storage Program.
Government is concentrating its efforts on improving all basic agricultural
inputs (farm machinery, fertilizers, seeds, extension service) in an attempt
to increase productivity and organize the sector on a technically advanced
basis in order to achieve a 7% rate of growth per year.
B. Foodgrain Production Trends
Production Constraints
2.04      Wheat and barley are the main cereal crops; rice is grown in very
small quantity and is primarily imported to meet domestic demand. Mbst wheat
and barley production (about 75%) is concentrated in the northeast, where
irrigation is not possible and the scanty rainfall (about 400 mm) does not
permit the application of high yielding seeds (Qexi-Pak) and fertilizer to
increase the yield. In central and southern Iraq, improved technology could
be applied to increase the yield, depending upon the availability of water
which is at present limited. In addition, much of the land, especially south
of Baghdad, is so saline that it can be used for cropping only in alternate
years and even then yields are low; some of the soils in the region are of such
1'   Further discussion of Iraq's economy is in Current Economic Position
and Prospects of Iraq (IBRD Report No. EMA. 35a, August 1971).



- 3 -
salinity that no crops at all can be grown. Other factors adversely affecting
agricultural production are the lack of fertilizers, improved seeds and farm
machinery; the lack of well-trained technical personnel for agricultural
production cooperatives and the extension services, and the absence of an
efficient marketing system and positive agricultural price policy. A detailed
discussion of the agricultural situation is in Annex 1.
Production and Imports
2.05      Production limitations have resulted in wide fluctuations in annual
production and low productivity (Annex 1). For instance, wheat production
varied from a low of 0.8 million tons in 1966 to a high of 1.2 million tons
in 1968 and dropped again to about 0.5 million tons in 1971 when rainfall was
poor and untimely. Barley production has been more stable, but nevertheless
fluctuated between 0.7 million tons and 0.9 million tons in the last two
years. Iraq imported about 0.4 million tons of wheat and barley in 1969 and
1970 and, because of the bad crop season in 1971, imports for both grains in
1971 totalled about 1.4 million tons (Annex 1). Although the magnitude of
total foodgrains imported will decline, Iraq will remain a net importer of
grains for the foreseeable future (para 3.03).
Consumption
2.06      Consumption of wheat totalled about 1.4 million tons in 1971, giving
an average annual per capita consumption of wheat of 122 kg, while barley
consumption totalled about 1.1 million tons for an annual average of about
95 kg per capita. For direct human consumption, wheat is considered by all
income groups to be the more desirable grain and as income increases, con-
sumers readily switch to it from barley. Of the present barley consumption,
80 kg per capita in the urban areas is used for commercial purposes and this
level is expected to increase with the development of the livestock industry.
Production Organization
2.07      As a result of the Land Reform Law of 1958 (amended 1970),
production organization is shifting from large private farms to small private
farms and more recently to Government-organized agricultural production co-
operatives. Any landowner possessing more than 200 ha of irrigated or 400 ha
of non-irrigated land is subject to expropriation of the excess amount. The
land so expropriated is then distributed to individual farmers in plots of 10
ha of irrigated land or 20 ha of non-irrigated land. As of January 1972 the
Land Reform Program had been implemented in over half of the country's districts
and completion of the Program is expected by 1973. Many of the farmers re-
ceiving land have not had the means to farm their plots and rent their land
to private grain traders on a share-crop basis (75% for the trader). Such
traders have little interest in making any capital improvements or in applying
innovations to increase the yield. Government is, therefore, attempting to
organize farmers under production cooperatives, subject to the availability
of trained managers and supervisors. Government provides financial and tech-
nical assistance (tractors, combines, fertilizers, seeds, credit, trained
supervisors and inspectors, etc.) to such cooperatives with the objective



-4-
of improving agricultural production and raising the farmers' incomes. One
of the most important types of support that Government provides to the
cooperatives is credit. Private farmers who are not members of cooperatives
can obtain only limited credit at 6% with mortgages from the Government
Agricultural Bank and the effective rates of the traders are much higher.
On the other hand, the cooperatives are completely financed by Government
credit at a 3% interest rate and no mortgages. This availability of credit
has freed the farmers in the cooperatives from the private traders (para
2.10) and is having a great impact on grain marketing channels. As of
January 1972, about 800 production cooperatives had been established (Annex
1), occupying about 25% of the land expropriated so far. It is projected
that about 30% of the total grain production (wheat and barley) in the
country will originate from such cooperatives by 1976 and 40% by 1980.
Foodgrain Wholesale Prices
2.08      At present the wholesale prices of domestically produced grain,
particularly wheat, are much higher than international prices. For example,
in 1972, the wholesale price in the private sector for wheat at Baghdad was
about US$152 per ton, as compared with about US$81 per ton for wheat imported
by the Grain Board. The high domestic prices of the private sector reflect,
primarily, the high marketing cost (handling, distribution, etc.), including
the middleman's profit. It is expected, however, that as a result of the
project, wholesale prices for domestic grain will decline significantly
(para 6.11). At present, the state-owned bakeries are heavily subsidized
in order to supply brrad cheaply to the lower income groups (the price of
a loaf of bread supplied by the state bakeries is ID 0.005, as compared with
a cost price of ID 0.010). These bakeries market their bread to licensed
dealers located in the poorer sections of the towns.
C. The Present Grain Marketing System
Government Policies
2.09      Government periodically issues lists for authorized buying and
selling prices of foodgrains. However, as indicated earlier, until the advent
of the cooperatives, Government had little opportunity to become an effective
force since the grain trade is primarily in the hands of private traders who
do not abide by the Government price guidelines. Moreover, in the past, Gov-
ernment price policy has been aimed at safeguarding the interests of consumers
and the interests of producers have been relegated to second place. An exam-
ple of this is the fact that the prices of non-cereal agricultural crops have
increased much faster than those for wheat and barley. In addition, Govern-
ment provides no grain marketing information service. The lack of market
entry opportunity and an information service, as well as the shortage of grain
storage facilities, are the handicaps which Government must overcome in order
to achieve a well-regulated marketing system. Government has now realized
that it needs to reformulate its grain policies and a detailed discussion of
this is presented in paragraphs 3.04 through 3.08.



-5-
Private Traders
2.10      Of the total domestic marketed production of grain, about 1.3
million metric tons per year, about 90% is marketed by private traders. The
most common grain marketing channel is as follows: farmers sell to siefs
(large traders), who, in turn, sell to alawqis (medium-sized traders), who
eventually sell to private flour mills or the Grain Board. In addition,
grain often passes from the alawis to retail merchants to consumers, who
then take their grain to private mills. There are about 1,000 private traders,
of whom about 10% are siefs. Through family and business ties, the siefs
have organized themselves into about 15 associations located throughout the
country. These siefs possess a strong bargaining position in the market,
since they not only purchase grain from individual farmers but also rent
land from small farmers for sharecropping (para 2.07). They also frequently
advance credit to farmers which is repaid by a portion of their share of
the crop being withheld at very high effective interest rates. Thus, at
present, these large traders virtually control the supply of grain available
for marketing in the country, and their control results in imperfect com-
petition. Market profit margins for siefs and alawis each average about
ID 10 (US$33.80) per -ton, which is excessive,representing about 50% of the
wholesale price. Also, the traders have been able to cause wide fluctuations
in grain prices during a year's time (grain prices have varied by 150%) by
acquiring excessive stocks of commodities at harvest time and hoarding them.
At present, the principal customers for the private traders are the private
flour mills. Annex 2 further discusses Iraq's grain marketing system.
2.11      The traders' individual operations and their storage, handling
and distribution methods have remained out of date and inefficient. Most
private storage facilities (estimated at 1.4 million metric tons for all
grains) consist of open courtyards with partial or no protection from wind,
rainfall, insects and rodents, and grain losses are high at about 8% (Annex
3). Moreover, these storage facilities are geared to the handling of bagged
grain (100 kg) exclusively, resulting in high handling costs. The cost of
each handling of bagged grain by the private sector is approximately US$6.0
per ton, compared with US$1.76 per ton for bulk handling by a modern silo.
In addition, grain changes hands four or five times in moving from producer
to consumer, with each transfer of ownership involving additional handling.
The numerous steps naturally increase marketing costs. Obviously, the
private traders in the existing grain marketing system are not equipped to
efficiently handle the domestic productibn of wheat and barley.
Cooperative Societies
2.12      Government aims to provide general-purpose storage units at each
of the established cooperatives for the storage of grain, fertilizer and spare
parts. As discussed in Annex 2, the cooperatives now have storage space for
about 40,000 tons of bagged grain, their facilities consisting of 30 large
warehouses (500 tons each) for regional cooperatives and 336 small stores
(80 tons each) for local cooperatives. By 1974, an additional 70 large ware-
houses for regional cooperatives will be completed and 500 local cooperatives
will have a general-purpose storage unit. These storage units are designed



-6-
only for short-term storage of bagged grain since the cooperatives plan to
sell their marketable surplus at the time of harvest and rely on the Grain
Board for long-term bulk storage of their consumption and seed stocks.
Flour Mills
2.13      In Iraq, most consumers purchase wheat as flour rather than in the
raw form. At present, there are 26 modern commercial flour mills in the
private sector, with an estimated annual throughput of some 300,000 tons of
wheat (Annex 2), and 1,000 private artisan stone mills of poor quality. The
General Company of Flour Mills, a state corporation, owns four flour mills,
with a total annual milling capacity of 230,000 tons (Annex 2), and four
new mills, with a total annual milling capacity of about 240,000 tons, are
on order and should be in operation by 1975. The flour mills have their
own storage facilities for operational stocks of raw grain and for processed
flour. Government is also in the process of constructing three feed mills,
which will be owned and operated by the Government Poultry Company, and there
are many small feed mills in the private sector.
The Grain Board
2.14      A detailed discussion of the Grain Board's operations is in Annex 4.
It is a state corporation primarily engaged in procuring, storing and distri-
buting grain to the Government-owned flour mills, which, in turn, supply flour
to state-owned bakeries (para 2.08). The level of the Grain Board's operation
and maintenance compares favorably with that of efficient private operations
in major grain producing countries. The Board is headed by a Director General
and is divided into four departments: Commercial Affairs, Personnel and
Finance, Technical, and Projects. It has 138 permanent staff members (both
professional and nonprofessional) at its Baghdad headquarters. On balance,
the income from domestic trading activities, import/export transactions and
storage services has been sufficient to finance its operations and make pay-
ments to Government for part financing of Grain Board capital investments.
2.15      The Grain Board currently operates eight modern storage silo facili-
ties, with a total storage capacity of about 164,000 tons plus 78,000 tons in
warehouse storage for bagged grain, mostly rice (Annex 4). These facilities
are primarily used to store Government-procured grain, but they also store
some grain (about 20% of the total storage capacity) for private farmers and
traders on a fee basis. Each local silo is staffed with well trained and
experienced personnel and each provides cleaning, storing, drying, weighing,
fumigation and other services that a normal modern silo renders. Although
wheat and barley are handled in bulk form within the silo facilities, the
silos are not equipped for bulk loading or unloading of trucks and railcars,
resulting in excess transportation and handling costs. The Grain Board's
port silo at Basrah was designed chiefly for export and, during the high
level of 1971 imports, shipping demurrage charges amounted to about ID
976,000 (US$3.3 million) in addition to excess handling costs and storage
losses on the import shipment. In addition to the above silos, the Grain
Board has under construction, with USSR bilateral assistance, 10 additional



- 7 -
silos of 10,000 tons each for the storage of wheat and barley. The storage
requirements for rice are being met by constructing, with East German bila-
teral aid, seven new silos of 16,000 tons each, exclusively for the storage
of rice to supplement the existing warehouses for bagged rice.
2.16      In bad crops years, the Grain Board has played an extremely import-
ant role in grain marketing. Export-import trade is under its exclusive
control and, during years of large imports, it supplies grain to both state-
owned and private flour mills. In 1971 the Grain Board imported about 60%
of total domestic consumption of wheat and barley (para 2.05).
2.17      However, in the area of domestic grain procurement, the Grain Board
has not played a major role. In recent years, the Grain Board has procured
only about 10% of the total grain sold directly by farmers, due in large
measure to the control exercised by the private traders over the domestic
sources of supply. However, with the increase in the number of Government-
controlled and financed production cooperatives, which will rely on the Grain
Board for marketing and storage services, the Grain Board will be able to
increase its procurement of domestically produced grain (para 3.04). The
relative inactivity of the Grain Board in domestic procurement has also been
due to the lack of a clear mandate from Government. However, in May 1972,
a decree was passed instructing the Grain Board to intensify its efforts to
purchase local surpluses. Currently the Grain Board's most serious obstacle
to increasing local purchases is the shortage of storage facilities. With
the new storage facilities presently under construction, the Grain Board will
be able to increase its procurement from 10% to about 15% of the marketed
domestic production.
III. FUTURE TRENDS
A. Production, Consumption and Imports
Production
3.01      It is expected that the present total land area under wheat and
barley, about 3.0 million ha, will remain unchanged except in the north.
This is in line with the recent policy adopted by Government, which aims to
increase production by intensive rather than extensive farming. In the
north, an additonal 100,000 ha is expected to come under wheat production
over the next decade, since a state of peace now exists there between the
Kurds and Government. In central and southern Iraq, no increase in the land
area under wheat and barley is foreseen due to salinity and drainage problems
(para 2.04). The yields of both, however, will increase in the north
due to greater mechanization and in the center and south as a result
of improved inputs and cultural practices. By 1980, gross wheat production
is estimated to be about 1.5 million tons and gross barley production about
1.1 million tons (Annex 5, Tables 1 and 2).



-8-
ConsumDtion
3.02      It is estimated that the population of Iraq will be about 13 million
by 1980 (a growth rate of 3.3% per annum), of which about 58% and 42% will be
in urban and rural areas, respectively (Annex 5, Tables 3 and 4). As a result
of Government efforts to increase per capita income in the lower income group,
and other socio-economic developments, it is estimated that the annual per
capita consumption of wheat will increase, on average, from the present 122
kg to 130 kg per annum for a total of about 1.7 million tons by 1980. Within
a few years, direct human consumption of barley will only occur in the rural
areas and is expected to be 90 kg per capita per annum for a total of about
0.5 million tons by 1980. The commercial consumption of barley will increase
from the present average of 80 kg per capita to about 95 kg per capita per
annum (Annex 5, Table 6), for a total of about 0.7 million tons by 1980.
Imports
3.03      Because of the variability of Iraq's wheat and barley production,
alternative sets of projections of domestic production, based on d'fferent
assumptions, were made both for wheat and barley for the purpose of sensi-
tivity analysis. After deducting on-farm consumption (rural human consumption
plus seed requirements, plus in-field losses) from the most likely projection
of total production and assuming projected consumption levels, it is estimated
that, by 1980, Iraq will be importing annually about 516,000 tons of wheat
and about 234,000 tons of barley, totalling 750,000 tons, to balance domestic
requirements (Annex 5). The level of 750,000 tons was used as the estimate
of the average long-term of imports required by Iraq.
B. A Balanced Grain Marketing System
3.04      Government has realized that it needs to participate directly in
the grain marketing system so that it can moderate the impact of the private
traders.  With the construction of additional storage capacity Government
will be in a position to purchase about 33% of marketed domestic production
(Annex 6). This amount is expected to come from the Government-controlled
and financed cooperatives, which will provide about 40% of the domestic pro-
duction by 1980 (para 2.07). The increased participation of the Grain Board
in the domestic grain trade would tend to eliminate the numerous steps in-
volved In the present marketing system, and would result in increased effi-
ciency and lower marketing costs. Government has also realized that grain
marketing and pricing policies need careful formulation, and assistance in
this direction would be provided through the project (para 4.10).
3.05      Although the private traders' present widespread powers will be
reduced, they will continue to play a significant role in grain marketing.
Grain Board purchases of 33% of the marketed domestic production would
allow it to completely supply the Government flour mills, plus 10% of private



- 9 -
mills, and, at the same time, have significant impact on producer prices.
Private traders will be left with nearly 70% of the marketed domestic produc-
tion but, because of the competition from the Grain Board, they will be forced
to reduce their costs and profits to meet Government's producer and consumer
prices.
Projected Storage Requirements
3.06      As discussed in Annex 7, the Grain Board must have sufficient
capacity to efficiently store and distribute: (a) grain imports; (b) about
33% of domestically marketed grain; and (c) consumption and seed stocks of
cooperatives stored as a service. In determining the needed storage capa-
city, the Grain Board's storage of emergency stocks was also taken into ac-
count; Government is seeking to have reserve stocks equivalent to two
months'consumption on hand at all times, which is a minimum level since the
lead time for resupply to Iraq by imports, from time of order until arrival,
is about three months.
3.07      The above demands for storage, together with the dynamic factors
of grain storage and distribution (harvest period, import scheduling, con-
sumption rates and internal transportation), were translated into a linear
programming computer model to indicate the size and location of additional
silo facilities required by the Grain Board (Annex 7). The model analysis,
after substantial sensitivity testing, indicated a peak storage requirement
during and immediately following the harvest period of 908,000 tons by 1980.
In addition, anal sis indicated that, in order to efficiently handle the pro-
jected imports, he handling capacity at Basrah port silo must be increased
and a transfer terminal silo with 20,000 ton capacity must be built at the
port of Um Qasr. Thus, the total storage demand by 1980 will be 928,000 tons.
Taking into account the Grain Board's 18 silo facilities (264,000 tons), all
Grain Board warehouse storage (78,000 tons) and Government mill storage capac-
ity (26,000 tons), the Grain Board storage deficit will be at least 560,000
tons by 1980.
3.08      The model analysis further indicated that to minimize construction,
operating and transportation costs, the deficit storage projected should be
provided by expanding four of the Grain Board's present silos and construct-
ing fifteen new ones for a total additional capacity of 560,000 tons, including
the 20,000 ton terminal silo at Um Qasr. The proposed location and size of
each of the individual silos are given in Annex 7 and indicated on the map.
Grain Standards and Grading
3.09      Iraq does not have well-defined grain standards or a uniform grading
system. The Grain Board has developed some grading standards for its domestic
grain purchase contracts, but they lack sufficient detail. Well-defined grain
standards would provide a more definitive basis for a system of Government



- 10 -
price guidelines, applicable in all parts of the country and to grain in all
conditions, and would also eliminate the necessity of preserving owner ident-
ity on grain stocks that the Grain Board stores as a service, which in the
past has resulted in inefficient use of the large bulk silo bins. A proposed
system of grain standards is given in Annex 8. It was agreed during negotia-
tions that the Grain Board would devise a system of grain standards and grad-
ing, mutually satisfactory to the Bank and the Grain Board, and implement
such a system during project execution.
IV.  THE PROJECT
A. Summary Description
4.01      The proposed project forms part of a long range program to expand
and improve the Grain Board's handling and storage system in order to: (a)
reduce storage losses; (b) reduce handling and marketing costs; (c) reduce_
internal and external transportation costs; and (d) enable the Grain Board
to be a more active participant in the domestic grain trade in order to
stimulate domestic grain production through higher producer prices.
4.02      The total storage capacity provided by the project facilities would
be 560,000 tons and would be provided through:
(a)  the construction and equipping of 11 terminal silos, with
a total capacity of about 468,000 tons;
(b)  the construction and equipping of three gathering silos, with
a total capacity of 36,000 tons;
(c)  the construction and equipping of four silo expansions,
with a total capacity of 36,000 tons; and
(d)  the construction and equipping of a 20,000-ton transfer
terminal silo at the port of Um Oasr.
The project would also include the employment of engineering consultants by
the Grain Board to assist in the design and construction supervision of the
silos; technical assistance and equipment necessary to build mechanized inven-
tory control and communications systems; the employment of economic consultants
to undertake a comprehensive study on grain pricing and marketing; and a train-
ing program for key silo management and operational personnel.



- 11 -
B. Detailed Features
Terminal Silos
4.03      Terminal-type silos would be constructed at sites where a high
storage capacity and a variety of handling services are required. The
basic terminal silo would be 20,000 tons unit; higher capacities required at
certain sites would be provided by annexing storage units of 5,000 tons each.
The basic grain handling rate of the terminal silos would be 150 tons/hr
and each would have the capability to load and unload grain in bagged and
bulk form from the transport modes serving the respective sites. Terminal-
type silos would be constructed at: Shikan, Sinjar., Shirgat, Tuz, Baghdad,
Telafar, Baquba, Sulaimaniya, Khanakin and Hilla. The silos would range in
capacity from 20,000 to 85,000 tons with a total capacity of 468,000 tons.
Gathering Silos
4.04      Compared to terminal-type silos, the smaller gathering-type silos
are of a more simple design and, because of reduced machinery, have a lower
construction and operating unit cost.  The basic size of the gathering silos
would be 8,000 tons; higher capacities required at certain sites would be
provided by annexing storages units of 4,000 tons each.  The basic handling
rate of the silos would be 100 tons/hr and each would have the capability
to load and unload grain in bagged and bulk form from the transport modes
serving the respective sites. Gathering-type silos would be constructed at
Suwaira, Diwaniya and Duhok. The silos would have individual capacities
ranging from 8,000 to 16,000 tons for a total of 36,000 tons.
Expansion of Existing Silos
4.05      Four of the existing silos require expansion of storage capacity
and increases in grain handling speeds. The silos at Amara, Erbil, Kut and
Hilla would be expanded by a total of about 36,000 tons of storage capacity.
The handling capacity of silos at Mosul, Erbil and Hilla would be increased
from about 66 tons/hr to about 150 tons/hr. In addition, five existing silos
would be modified to permit bulk loading and unloading of trucks and railcars.
Expansion of Import Capacity
4.06      The Grain Board's capacity to handle imports would be expanded by
the construction of a transfer terminal silo at the port of Um Qasr and an
expansion of the import handling capacity at the Basrah port silo. The
terminal transfer silo to be built at Um Qasr would have a surge storage
capacity of about 20,000 tons and a bulk discharge capacity of about 600
tons/hr for rapid discharge of import shipments on ocean freighters or tankers.
The Um Qasr transfer facility would have the capability to unload from ships



- 12 -
and transfer grain directly to barges, railcars or trucks, or alternatively
store the unloaded grain in the storage bins `or future loading. The bulk
handling import system at the Basrah port silo, which was originally built
primarily for export, would be expanded from about 120 tons/hr to about 600
tons/hr.
Common Features
4.07      The storage bins of all silos would be poured reinforced concrete
constructed by the slip form method. Silo foundations would be pile-supported,
depending on soil investigations at each site. All silos would contain grain
cleaners, and silos in the central and southern parts of the country would
contain driers as well. More detailed descriptions of each type of silo and
suggested silo site layouts appear in Annex 9.
Engineering Consultants
4.03      A qualified engineering consultant firm would be appointed to conduct
soil and site investigations, prepare detailed designs for the silo structures
and mechanical-electrical equipment layout, and prepare tender and contract-
documents. During the construction period, the firm would provide on-site
inspectors to ensure that civil works construction and mechanical-electrical
equipment installations conform to contract specifications. Although there
are several Iraqi engineering consultant firms which are qualified to perform
part of the above task, all would need to be supplemented with foreign
experts or an association with an overseas firm would have to be established.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that    engineering consultants
acceptable to the Bank would be appointed on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank within four months of the signing of the loan. The Grain Board
has already asked for proposals from engineering consultant firms, on the
basis of the generai terms of reference presented in Annex 10.
Mechanized Inventory Management System
4.09      To assist in the management of the Grain Board's expanded operations,
a mechanized inventory control system would be designed and implemented and
a sunporting communications system with communication terminals at all silo
sites would be installed.  Management consultants would be employed to recom-
mend an inventory control system on the basis of a detailed feasibility study.
It is expected that such a study would recommend a computer-based control
system, and the cost estimate for this element of the project is based upon
this projection. The alternative to the computer-based system would be a
lower cost manual system employing calculating machines. However, such a
system would not allow for the transportation-minimized grain movement schedul-
ing, via linear programming, the savings from which are estimated to be far
greater than the cost of the computer-based system. More details on the Grain
Board's requirements for improved inventory management are given in paragraph
5.01, and general terms of reference for the management consultants and an
outline of the proposed study are in Annex 11.



- 13 -
Grain Marketing and Pricing Study
4.10      Qualified economic consultants would be appointed to conduct a
detailed study of grain marketing and pricing and propose a policy framework.
The need for this study is discussed in paragraph 5.02, and an outline for
it and general terms of reference for the economic consultants appear in
Annex 12.
Training Program
4.11      Personnel who would manage and operate the new silo facilities would
be given comprehensive training before they assumed their positions. The
training would include "in-house" training, equipment suppliers' training,
silo management courses to be given in Iraq by international experts and
specialized foreign training for key personnel. Additional details on the
proposed training program are given in paragraph 5.03 and Annex 13.
C. Construction Schedule
4.12      The project facilities would be constructed over a four-year period
following an 18-month period for design, engineering and contractor selection
as shown in the schedule in Annex 14. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that land for five silo sites would be obtained within three months of
loan effectiveness and all remaining land required for the project would be
obtained within six months thereafter.
D. Cost Estimates
4.13      The total project cost is estimated at ID 27.3 million (US$92.4)
of which the foreign exchange component is 48%, or ID 13 million (US$44 mil-
lion). The foreign exchange cost includes the cost of imported equipment,
the cost of foreign personnel required for silo construction and equipment
installation, the cost of foreign consultants, the foreign costs of training,
and the foreign exchange cost of materials used in local construction works.
Detailed cost estimates are presented in Annexes 11, 12, 13 and 15, and are
summarized as follows:



- 14 -
Foreign                      Foreign             Foreign
Local   Axchange   Total    Local   Exchange   Total   Exchange X
-----(ID millions)  -        -----TUS$ millions)--
I Silos
Terminal silos            6.55     5.40      11. 95    22.12    18.24    40.36       45
Gathering silos           o.84     o.85       1.69      2.86      2.86     5.72       50
Extensions to
existing silos           1.00     1.6       206        3.39     3.59      6.98      51
import facilities         1.11     0.82      1.93       3.76     2.76      6.52      42
Sub-total           9.50      8.13     17.63      32-13    27.45    59.58       46
II EnvineeringJ Consiiltants   0.67    0.57       1.24      2.25      1.92     4.17       46
III Yiechanized Inventory
Control
Consultants               0.11     0.32       0.43      0.36    1.07      1.43      75
2;quipment                0.03     Q.26       0,29      0.09     0.91      1.00      91
Sub-total           0.14      Q5        0,72?      0.45     1.98      2.43      82
IV, Grain Pricing and
Marketing Study            0,04     Q.0O       0.12      0.15     0.25      0.40      63
V Training                   0.01     0.02       0.03      0.03      0.07     0.10      70
PrQject Sub-Total  10.36      9.38     19.74      35-01    31.67    66.68       4d
VI 2ontingencies
Physical (total 14.5A,)   1.I0     1.36       2.86,     5.06     4.59      9.67      48
Price (total 21>)        2.49     2.25       4.74      8.L2     7.61    16.03       48
TOTAL PROJ&C'T 3UST         14.35    12.99      27?34     46.51    437    5j 92.36      46



- 15 -
4.14      Cost estimates for imported items are based on 1972 manufacturers'
prices, adjusted for currency realignments through March 1973. A physical
contingency of 15% is allowed on the silo construction works and engineering
consultants to cover the cost of alternate civil works designs and mechanical-
electrical layouts; a 10% physical contingency allowance is included for the
management and economic consultancy services, inventory control system and
training program. A 21% total price contingency is included for expected
price inflation of 5% per annum on both local and foreign cost items, includ-
ing physical contingencies.
E. Financial Plan
4.15      The project would be financed as follows:
USS Millions
ID Millions     Equivalent      % of Total-
IBRD Loan                11.8             40.0            43
Government of Iraq       15.5             52.4            57
Total         27.3             92.4           100
The proposed Bank loan of US$40 million wouldofinance 43% of the project's
cost and Government would provide the additional financing (US$52.4 million)
required for the project. The Bank loan would be made to Government for a
term of 25 years, with 6-3/4 years' grace and at an interest rate of 7-1/4%
p.a. In accordance with Iraq's Planning Laws, the Grain Board would receive
the total project financing (US$92.4 million) from Government through the
National Development Plan Fund. The Grain Board would make annual payments
to the Fund equivalent to 20% of net profits until the total project financ-
ing is repaid. During negotiations, it was agreed that the Grain Board would
forward to the Bank for review the annual construction schedule, annual ex-
penditure estimates and documentation indicating the budgetary allocation in
the National Development Fund to meet the project expenditures.
F. Procurement
4.16      Procurement of the silo works would be undertaken by the Grain
Board, assisted by the engineering consultants. The construction contracts
for the proposed new silos would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. However, in the con-
struction of three of the silo expansions and in the expansion of the handling
capacity at the Kut, Baghdad, and Basrah silos, the final engineering design



- 16 -
may Cictate such close integration with existing mechanical-electrical systems
that procurement of the needed equipment by international competitive bidding
would not be appropriate. In such instances, the Grain Board, with prior
approval of the Bank, would procure the mechanical-electrical equipment di-
rectly from the supplier, and the associated equipment installation and
ancillary civil works would be included in the silo construction works and
procured through international competitive bidding. The estimated cost of
the mechanical-electrical installations that could be exempt from international
competitive bidding is ID 740,000 (US$2.5 million). The existing mechanical-
electrical systems have been supplied by companies located in Bank member
countries or Switzerland.
4.17      The silo works would be grouped geographicalUy into construction
contracts, each containing three to four silo works. The total value of each
contract would be about ID 3.0 million (US$10 million), without contingencies.
Each construction contract would include both performing civil works and
providing mechanical-electrical equipment, with the possible exceptions
of the equipment for silo expansions mentioned in paragraph 4.16. Based on
experience in previous silo construction projects, the combining of civil--
works and mechanical-electrical installations avoids the inherent difficulties
of coordination between two independent contractors.
4.18      Procurement of all works or goods exceeding US$100,000 would be
through international competitive bidding according to the Bank's guidelines.
Procurement of works or goods costing less than US$100,000 would be made
by the Grain Board on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures,
and a summary of bids or quotations, an analysis report and a brief justi-
fication of the contract award would be sent to the Bank at the time the
award is made. Procurement of consultant services required for the project
would be made according to the Bank's guidelines. Minor services or "off the
shelf" items costing less than US$5,000 would be procured directly; the total
of such direct procurement would be limited to US$100,000.
4.19      For all works or goods to be procured through international
competitive bidding, the Grain Board, with the assistance of the consultants,
would prepare the specifications and tender documents, which would be submitted
to the Bank for review and comment before issue. The Bank would also comment
on the evaluation of bids and recommendation for award. In the event that
Government did not make the award to the lowest evaluated bidder, the Bank
would not reimburse any expenditure under the contract, and the corresponding
amount of the loan would be cancelled.
4.20      There are no preferential tariff agreements between Iraq and other
member countries that would affect evaluation of bids, and there are no
domestic manufacturers of silo mechanical-electrical equipment, computers
and communications equipment. Additionally, Iraqi civil works contractors
have not had experience in large-scale slip-form works. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the procurement procedures contained in para-
graphs 4.16 through 4.19 would be followed.



- 17 -
G. Disbursement
4.21      The foreign exchange component of mechanical-electrical works
stated in each contract awarded to foreign bidders would be eligible for
reimbursement under the loan. The Bank would reimburse 30% of civil works
expenditur-es and 75% of expenditures for equipment procured locally; these
percentages represent the estimated foreign exchange component in each case.
Disbursement would be made against applications for foreign currency payments
to contractors or suppliers for mobilization advances, progress payments or
completed work on approved contracts as certified by the engineering consult-
ants and checked by the Grain Board.
4.22      Payments made in foreign currency for the services of the engineer-
ing consultants would be eligible for reimbursement, provided that payments
were made in accordance with a contract satisfactory to the Bank. A schedule
of estimated quarterly disbursement for the proposed loan appears in Annex 16.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Grain Board Organization and Operation
5.01      The Grain Board's basic organization and operation provide a sound
framework for expansion in order to implement the project and subsequently
operate the new project facilities. However, several improvements in the
present operation are necessary in order to ensure that the Grain Board can
operate the expanded grain storage and marketing system with increased effi-
ciency. In order to achieve transport and handling cost minimization, the
Grain Board requires an improved inter-silo communication system and a mecha-
nized inventory management system (para 4.09). The public telephone service,
even between the silos in the large cities, Baghdad, Mosul, and Basrah, is
irregular and of poor quality. Additionally, the increased grain volume which
would be handled by the Grain Board would place an added burden on the already
slow manual inventory control system, and the increased grain movements would
urgently require the application of mechanized inventory management techniques
that could minimize transport and handling costs. During negotiations, it was
agreed that consultants would study and design a mechanized inventory control
system according to terms of reference mutually acceptable to the Bank and
the Grain Board, and the resulting inventory and communication systems would
be implemented during the execution of the project.
5.02      The proposed project storage facilities would provide the physical
capacity which is required by the Grain Board to become a more active
participant in the domestic purchase and sale of grain. However, the Grain
Board needs assistance in establishing guidelines that would stabilize all
marketing, public and private, and produce the desired effects on producer



- 18 -
and consumer prices (para 4.10). Although the parent organization to the
Grain Board, the State Organization for Grains and Enterprises (Annex 4),
employs economists, the Grain Board has none on its own staff. As a result,
the Market Research Division of the Grain Board's Commercial Affairs Depart-
ment is ill-equipped to provide the necessary marketing research and fore-
casting needed. Therefore, in order to strengthen grain marketing decisions,
two qualified and experienced economists would be hired by the Grain Board
firm. The Grain Board would have a grain pricing and marketing study under-
taken on terms of reference mutually acceptable to the Bank and the Grain
Board. Agreement to this effect was reached during negotiations.
5.03      To ensure that the new silo facilities would be staffed by capable
managers and operators, the Grain Board would undertake a comprehensive train-
ing program for key personnel (para 4.11). On-the-job training would be given
to the personnel in the present silo facilities and two four-week courses
annually for managers would be given in Iraq by international grain storage
and handling experts. Specialized training abroad would be given to silo
personnel responsible for grain grading and sanitation. In addition, the
suppliers of the mechanical-electrical equipment for the proposed silos would
be required to provide training in the operation and maintenance of the equip-
ment they provide. During negotiations, agreement was reached that a train-
ing program for the staffs of the new silos, mutually acceptable to the Bank
and the Grain Board, would be executed by the Grain Board.
B. Project Management
5.04      Within the Grain Board, the Projects Department would be responsible
for construction of project facilities. This department is headed and staffed
by qualified engineers and is currently implementing two bilateral aid projects
providing grain storage facilities (para 2.15). The basic organization and
operation of this department are satisfactory for managing construction of the
proposed project facilities and need only to be expanded by the addition
of qualified staff. Agreement was reached during negotiations that four qual-
ified and experienced engineers would be added to the Projects Department
within one year of the signing of the loan.
5.05      The Technical Department would have responsibility for general
project administration, the design and implementation of the inventory
management system, the silo staff training program and the price and market-
ing study.
C. Project Accounts
5.06      At present, all Grain Board accounts are audited by an independent
chartered accountant firm as well as reviewed by Government's Central Inspec-
tion Authority. In the near future, the Grain Board will be audited annually
by the State Central Organization for Audit. The Grain Board would establish



- 19 -
and maintain separate accounts for all project expenditures. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Grain Board's accounts would be satis-
factorily audited and that audited annual financial statements of the Grain
Board would be sent to the Bank within six months of the close of each Iraqi
fiscal year.
D. Project Evaluation
5.07      The Grain Board's Market Research Division, which would be expanded by
two economists and work jointly with the economic consultants (para 5.02),
would be responsible for evaluating the benefits expected under the project.
In particular, the Market Research Division would collect information monthly
on wheat and barley production by cooperatives, farmgate and wholesale grain
prices, grain storage losses, transportation demurrage charges and relative
tonnage of grain handled in bulk versus bagged form. This monthly infor-
mation would be evaluated and an annual report on the project benefits, similar
in scope to the discussion in Chapter VI of this report, would be prepared.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the annual report on project
benefits would be sent to the Bank.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Financial Results
6.01      Under the expanded operation resulting from implementation of the
project, the Grain Board would be able to continue to achieve its objective
of a financially viable grain storage and marketing organization. A pro-
jected cash flow for the Grain Board indicates that the expanded operation
would produce an annual net profit, before depreciation and interest, of
about ID 2.0 million (US$6.7 million). This amount would be sufficient to
repay the project financing of ID 27.3 million (US$92.4 million) in 30 years
(Annex 17). During negotiations, Government agreed that the Grain Board would
pursue a general operating policy of generating sufficient revenues to cover
operating expenses, taxes, maintenance, depreciation and debt service. It
was also agreed that when Government grain marketing decisions did not allow
the Grain Board to generate sufficient revenues, Government would provide the
funds required for a balanced operating budget.
B. Economic Justification
Quantitative Benefits
6.02      The proposed expansion and modernization of the Grain Board's
storage facilities would benefit the economy by about US$11 million per



- 20 -
year at full Lavelopment (the eighth year after conmencement of the project),
duie to reduct'o.ns in grain losses, handling, marketing and internal and
external transportation costs. A brief explanation of each of these benefits
is given below and detailed discussion and calculations are presented in
Annex 17.
6.03      Reduction in Grain Storage Losses.  At present about 8% (by weight)
of the grain in private storages is lost due to poor and outdated facilities.
The comparable weight loss rate for grain passing through the Grain Board
storage and distribution system is only 2%. It is expected that the Grain
Board would handle about 1.4 million tons of grain annually (both imports
and domestically produced quantities), of which about 880,000 tons (60%) would
be stored in project facilities. Without the project facilities, the domes-
tically produced quantities would have been stored in the inadequate facilities
of the private traders and the imports in mounds in the port area. Assuming
a storage loss reduction on domestic quantities of only 3 percentage points
and 2 percentage points on imports, the project facilities would result in
annual savings of 22,000 tons of grain. Of the grain saved, wheat and barley
would represent 64% and 36%, respectively, of the total volume.  Applying
price rates (cif Iraq) of US$72 per ton for wheat and US$55 per ton for
barley, a total saving of US$1.4 million per year would be achieved.
6.04      Reduction in Marketing Costs.  It is projected that the Grain Board
would be in a position by 1980 to procure about 413,000 tons of grain annually
from domestic sources, of which about 248,000 tons would be handled and stored
directly by the project facilities. Without the project, this volume would
be marketed in the following manner: farmers to siefs to alawis to private
flour mills. The direct marketing cost excluding profit margin of a sief and
an alawi operation is about US$9.59 and US$14.53 per ton per marketing, re-
spectively. The total direct marketing cost for an operation involving both
siefs and alawis would therefore average about US$24.12 per ton for bagged
grain. Contrary to this, the Grain Board's marketing cost (including over-
heads and other operating costs) would be about US$6.16 per ton for bulk and
US$7.21 for bagged grain. This reduction in marketing costs would result in
a net benefit of about US$4.0 million per year.
6.05      Savings Due to Bulk Handling.  The provision of bulk loading and
shipping facilities at the new and existing silos, including the Basrah port
silo, would replace the present practice of largely handling grain in bagged
form. On the net volume expected to be affected by the project facilities,
of which 90% and 10% would be in bulk (US$1.76 per ton per handling) and
bagged (US$2.06 per ton per handling) form, respectively, the net savings
would amount to about US$1.0 million annually.
6.06      Reduction in Internal Transportation Costs.  The bulk loading and
unloading facilities would also result in a more efficient use of trucks.
It is estimated that, with the project, handling of the required tonnage
would involve waiting times for trucks of about 4,000 hours, while in the
absence of the project, trucks would have a waiting time of about 700,000
hours. To convert these savings into numbers of trucks for moving the proj-



- 21 -
ected grain flow, it was assumed that in Iraq a truck has an annual utility
of about 4,800 hours per year. This results in a saving of about 150 trucks,
which would hlave been imported and the related fixed annual costs incurred; the
total annual cost of these vehicles is about US$684,000. In addition to the
transportation savings due to reduced waiting time, savings in transporta-
tion would result from monthly movement schedules prepared by the automated
inventory management system which would insure that shipments are directed
to where they are needed over the shortest route.
6.07      Reduction in Ocean Shipping Cost.  The improvement of handling
facilities at the Basrah port silo and the construction of a transfer silo
at Um Qasr for lightering ships would reduce the average ship waiting and
unloading time from 39 days per ship under present conditions to 5.2 days
per ship under the project. The average time allowed for each ship for
waiting and unloading before incurring demurrage charge (US$2,000 per day) is
10 days. Hence, under the project, there would be no demurrage charges,
resulting in an annual saving of about US$2.5 million from 42 ships per year
expected to arrive at Basrah with the import requirements of 750,000 tons
(para 3.03).
6.08      Increase in Production. With the completion of the project, the
Grain Board's 33% participation in the domestic grain trade with higher pro-
ducer prices would begin to have a favorable impact on production. The
price elasticity of production in the north (for wheat and barley), based on
simple regression, with relative price alone as the determining variable, was
found to be 0.9. For the purpose of the calculation, an increase of only 1l%
in farmgate prices has been assumed. Under this assumption, there would be
an incremental 39,000 tons of wheat and 29,000 tons of barley produced in the
north by 1980. Applying price rates of US$72 per ton for wheat and US$55 per
ton for barley, a net benefit, after deducting farmers production costs, of
about US$1.8 million per year would be achieved under the above conservative
assumptions.
Economic Rate of Return
6.09      A 14% rate of return is expected to accrue to the economy from the
project investment, including physical contingencies and applying a 25% reduc-
tion in cost of labor saved in the streamlined marketing and bulk handling
operations (Annex 17). By increasing the cost of the project by 15% without
increasing value of benefits, the rate of return would be 12%. The rate
of return of the project with labor savings at full cost would be 16%. All
these returns are satisfactory, particularly in view of the nature of the
project - an infrastructure project required for an efficient grain marketing
system.
Risk
6.10      There is not a high degree of risk that the project would not provide
the economic benefits that have been estimated. The majority of the benefits
(reduction in storage losses, handling costs and transportation costs) would



- 22 -
be achieved by channelling more grain through improved types of handling and
storage, most of which are now provided by the Grain Board but on a limited
scale. Most of the increased volume of grain that would be handled by the
Grain Board would consist of the increased imports which Iraq will require
for the foreseeable future to supplement domestic production. The additional
increase in the volume of grain projected to be handled by the Grain Board
and the related benefits in reduced marketing costs will result from the Grain
Board becoming a more active participant in domestic grain trade. Since the
Government-controlled and financed cooperatives are projected to be providing
at least 40% of the domestic grain by 1980, the Grain Board, which will be
procuring grain directly from the cooperatives, should not have difficulty
in procuring 33% of the marketed domestic production. Government is committed
to stimulating the agriculture sector by providing credit and the required inputs
at low cost and, at the same time, ensuring higher producer prices without
increasing consumer prices. Even if cooperatives do not develop as well or as
quickly as projected, Government will be including private farmers in its
efforts to stimulate agricultural production. Thus, the Grain Board would
have an opportunity to increase its domestic purchases from either the coope-
ratives or the private farmers and the projected increase from the present
level of 10% of the marketed domestic production to 33% is feasible.
C. 1Wholesale Foodgrain Prices
6.11      As a result of the efficiencies in storage, transport and marketing,
it is estimated that the prices received by farmers in the cooperative
societies could increase by 14% and that wholesale prices for domestic wheat
channelled through the Grain Board would become more competitive with imports,
as indicated in the following table:
Without the          With the
Proposed Pro,iect   Proposed Project
 ---------  ID per ton------------
Wheat
Farmgate Prices                       15                 17
Handling Cost and Storage Losses    10                     4
Subtotal                   25                  21
Middleman/Grain Board Profit         20                    3
Total Wholesale Price                 45                 24
International Price (cif Iraq)       24                  24
Balance                    21                   0
Similarly, the barley wholesale prices would decline from the present ID 31
(US$104.8) to In 18 per ton (US$60).



- 23 -
D. Regional Income Distribution
6.12      On the basis of the above projection of farmgate ?rice increases,
the project would increase the annual net income of farmers participating
in the cooperative societies by 14% in northern Iraq, as shown below:
Items                     Without Project        With Project
No. of Families                                 75,000               75,000
Land Available to Each Family                    25 ha              25 ha
Production of Each Family:
W4heat                                     6 ton                6 ton
Barley                                     7 ton                7 ton
Net Farm Income per ton
Wheat                                     US$30 per ton    US$34 per ton
Barley                                    US$14 per ton    US$16 per ton
Annual Net Income per Family                    US$278            US$316
The incremental income per family would be US$38 and amount to about US$2.9
million for the total number of families affected. This increase would be of
great significance since the northern region is an economically depressed
area. It would also have a positive impact in reducing the high migration
rate to urban centers.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, the principal assurances obtained from Govern-
ment were that:
(a)  engineering consultants acceptable to the Bank, would
be appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
within four months of the signing of the loan (para 4.08);
(b)  all land required for the project would be obtained within
six months of loan effectiveness (para 4.12); and
(c)  procurement procedures outlined in paragraphs 4.16 through
4.19 would be followed (para 4.20).



- 24 -
7.02      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of USS40 million
equivalent, repayable over 25 years, with a grace period of 6-3/4 years.
The Borrower would be the Government of Iraq.
May 22, 1973



ANNEX 1
Page 1
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Grain Production and Consumption
A. Historical Production and Consumption Trends
Production and Imports
1.        Wheat and barley are the main cereal crops with production centered
primarily in the rainfed areas of Iraq. Rice is grown only under irrigation
and production is small. Due to physical (rainfall, irrigation, and such) and
techno-organizational limitations (Section B), both wheat and barley prodcuction
is marked by wide annual fluctuations and low yields (Table 1). Wheat produc-
tion varied from a low of 0.83 million tons in 1966 to a high of 1.20 million
tons in 1968 and dropped again to about 0.50 million tons in 1971, when
rainfall was very poor and untimely. Barley production has remained relatively
stable; nevertheless, fluctuations did occur - from 0.9 million tons in 1970
to 0.70 million tons in 1971. Iraq has been an importer (Table 1) of wheat
for some time and quantities have been increasing - 0.10 million tons in
1968, about 0.32 million tons in 1969, and about 1.0 million tons in 1971.
Through most of the sixties Iraq exported barley but imports of barley began
in 1969 and have also been rising - 0.10 million tons to about 0.45 million
tons in 1971.
Consumption
2.        In Iraq, wheat is the major staple food for rich and poor alike and
the present average consumption is about 122 kg per person (Annex 5 para 5).
Barley is consumed principally by lower income groups in the south of Iraq
and the national average is 95 kg. Wheat is considered by all as the more
desirable grain and, as income increases, the switch is made from barley.
Of the total barley consumption the urban consumption consists primarily of
commercial uses of barley (about 80 kg per person).
B. Production Constraints
Physical Limitations to Production - Land and Water Use and Management
3.        Northeast Region.  Iraq's land area is about 40 million ha, with
rainfed agriculture practiced on about 3 million ha, all of which lie in the
northeast. The Mosul-Aribil-Kirkuk is the most important dry-farm area,
with an annual precipitation of about 400 mm. Soils, reddish-brown and
calcareous, with a zone of carbonate accumulation at depths of 12 to 20
inches, are not salty and could support higher yields. However, since



ANNEX 1
Page 2
production in this area is entirely dependent upon the adequacy and timing
of rainfall, there is limited scope for increasing yields through the
application of technology, such as the high yielding variety seed (Maxe-Pak)
and fertilizer. The Agriculture Research Station at Mosul has, for the
last six years, supervised planting of Mexi-Pak with fertilizer on indivi-
dual farms in the area (this amounted to about 0.4% of the total land area
under wheat), and records show that the yield response from the farms has
been discouraging (an increase of only 3 to 5%). On some occasions, due
to inadequate and untimely rainfall, the Mexi-Pak-fertilizer application has
even produced negative results. Experience has convinced agronomists that
the fallow system is by far the most productive and economical method of
zetaining the fertility of the rainfed land in the northeast region. Since the
same results were also obtained by the Central Agriculture Research Station
at Abu Garib, near Baghdad, 1/ it seems highly probable that the land in
this region will continue to be cultivated without Mexi-Pak and fertilizer,
maintaining fertility by the fallow system.
4.        The development and use of a new variety of drought-resistant
seed would make it possible to take advantage of the present untapped
potential of the soil in this region, but, considering the present status
of research and the time required to develop such seeds, it seems unlikely
that they could have any bearing on yields in the time covered by this
analysis. In addition, improved cultural practices could make a positive
contribution to increasing the yield. The present crop fallow rotation,
with the land growing up mostly to weeds in the fallow year, does not con-
serve either moisture or fertility efficiently. If the lands were seeded
to cover grasses during the fallow year, more of the moisture that falls could
be saved. The crop fallow system could also be made more productive by
stricter control of weeds during the fallow year and by following tillage
practices designed to retain moisture. At present, however, very little effort
is being made in this direction.
5.        Much of the higher rainfall area in the northeast is mountainous
and rugged and land is left in native grass pasture. There are, of course,
some irrigated lands with sufficient precipitation for winter crops but
they are used primarily for seumer cash crops such as sugar beet.
1/   "Not all the areas are fit for growing such high yielding varieties, nor
fertilizer can be applied under all conditions of soil and irrigation.
By far the largest area under wheat and barley in the North Zone is
grown without irrigation under scanty rainfall and even wherever the
rainfall is higher, it may not be well-timed and/or certain to admit
fertilizer application. Therefore, further analysis of the situation is
essential to determine the scope and to identify the extent and areas to
which such variety treatment can be applied with advantage." - Wneat
Production 1969-70, Some Facts (Role of Maxi-Pak and Fertilizer Use),
Abu Garib Research Station, Baghdad. January 1971, pp. 1-2.



ANNEX I
Page 3
6.        South of the northeast area is a zone of Sierozem soils.  There
is less rainfall here than in the northeast and what there is is more unre-
liable. Furthermore, soils frequently have a high content of gypsum as
well as calcium carbonate, and many are shallow. A part of this land is
at present under wheat and barley, but because of its marginal nature for
cultivation of these crops, Government has recently reserved the area for
grazing.
7.        Center and South Regions.  In the center and south of Iraq, the
land is not suitable for agriculture without irrigation. Hence, the amount
of land that can be used for production of crops depends upon the quantity
of water that can be delivered to farmers. This, in turn, depends upon how
much of the Euphrates' river water is taken out upstream by other countries.
Iraq's current water use from the Euphrates is estimated to be about 14.6
million acre-feet out of a total average available flow of just under 24
million. Iraq also uses about 13.8 million acre-feet of water from the
Tigris river, but developments now underway or planned call for intensified
land use and new land use, that would increase requirements to a total of
about 53.5 million acre-feet, a volume that exceeds by 16.5 million acre-
feet the average annual discharge. It is obvious that all of these expan-
sions cannot take place. In fact, if the land in Iraq that is now some-
times irrigated were cropped every year instead of alternate years, and
if more summer crops were grown, as is being planned, the resulting water
demand might exceed the total available flow in both rivers. This would
leave ne supplies to meet the demands of any new land brought under cultiva-
tion. Under these circumstances, it would seem unwise to undertake water
development on the Euphrates river or on the Tigris until treaties or other
arrangements specify the amount of water available to each country - Iraq,
Syria, and Turkey. In the absence of such treaties and with the uncertainty
of the availability of additional water from the Euphrates river, the
future increase in agricultural production in the center and south would
mainly remain an academic issue.
8.        Another major limitation affecting future prospects for increasing
production of wheat and barley in the center and south of Iraq is the high
salinity of the soils and the lack of drainage. Much of the land, especially
south of Baghdad, is so salty that it can be used for cropping only in
alternate years and, even then, yields are low. Some of the soils in this
region are of such salinity that no crops at all can be grown, while others,
less salty, can support barley but yields are low. It has been demonstrated
that the salts can be washed through the soils into drains, and that when
soils are freed of salts, they can be of good quality. Under the present
system of flooding salts into the dried soil without providing drains, however,
high water tables have developed and water in these tables is of high salinity.
Thus, because of the high salt content of the soil and the lack of drains,
much of the land in central and southern Iraq cannot now be cropped unless
a farmer resorts to unusual and wasteful agricultural practices that bring
no lasting solution. The real solution to these problems is proper leaching,
drainage, and good management. Without these, the land can only becoame more
saline and decline further in productivity.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
9.        The Government is now beginning to appreciate that until an
efficient drainage system is constructed, the productivity capacity of
irrigated areas in the center and south will be considerably handicapped.
Some efforts are already being made and a small portion of the land has
been reclaimed. However, considering the magnitude of the land area involved,
the process would be a long-term venture. Moreover, when the land is
reclaimed, it will be more economical to use it for cash crops, such as
cotton and sugar beet, where the net return to farmers is much higher than
with wheat and barley. Hence, not only is the land area under wheat and barley
in these two regions unlikely to increase, it will probably decline slightly.
Since irrigation is available in these regions, however, the application of
improved technology (use of fertilizer and high-yielding improved seeds
and such) is feasible, thus making it possible to achieve higher yields
than are currently being obtained.
10.       In the center and south during the 1970/71 season, abcut 4%
and 5%, respectively, of the total area in wheat was planted under
Mexi-Pak seed, and fertilized, which resulted in an increase in yield
from about 700 kg per ha to about 1,600 kg per ha. This indicates that,
depending upon the availability of improved seeds, water, fertilizer, and
good land, both regions are capable of higher production without increasing
the total amount of land under the two crops. However, bringing a
higher percentage of total land area under Mexi-Pak to increase production
would require a timely and assured supply of seed, fertilizer, and irriga-
tion water and an extremely good extension service. At present, there
are numerous problems involved in meeting these requirements: there is
a lack of supply of improved seeds and fertilizer in Iraq; cultural and
cultivation practices need substantial improvement; and a well-staffed,
well-organized extension service must be developed. Without such an exten-
sion service, the farmers would not be able to reap full benefits, even
if they had the necessary supplies of improved inputs. At present, there
is a shortage in Iraq of trained personnel in the agricultural extension
service and this constitutes a major constraint on agricultural development
as a whole. These aspects are discussed later in this Annex. Taking into
account all of these points, as well as the Government's ongoing efforts to
overcome some of the problems, it is assumed in making projections (Annex 5)
for the center and south that, by 1980, about 20% of the total land area will
be uader Mexi-Pak cultivation, compared to 5% at present, and the yield
will be about 2,200 kg per ha, compared to 1,600 kg per ha (increases of
about 15% in the land area under Mexi-Pak and about 40% in the yield).
Techno-Organizational Limitations to Production
11.       Farm Machinery.  Farming in Iraq is only slightly mechanized.  There
is a variety of farm machines in the country but their use is neither wide-
spread nor intensive. Large areas still rely on simple farm methods and im-
plements that have been used for decades. It is estimated that there is
less than one tractor per thousand cultivated hectares in Iraq, compared to
five per thousand hectares in Egypt, twelve per thousand hectares in Lebanon,



ANNEX 1
Page 5
and about two per thousand hectares in Syria. This comparison of countries,
of course, does not take into account different tractor sizes, cropping
patterns, land holding arrangements and the like. Nevertheless, it does
indicate that Iraq, even among its Middle Eastern neighbors, has been slow
to adopt modern mechanized farming. Farmers in Iraq prepare land for winter
cereals by plowing with horses and oxen and the soil is not turned but simply
stirred to a depth of only 3 or 4 inches 1/.
12.       There is very little domestic production of tractors or of
modern farm equipment and it is estimated that by 1980-85 Iraq will need some
100,000 additional tractors to mechanize its farming, even on a modest scale.
To achieve this target appears a difficult task. The lack of supply of
adequate machinery would have a negative impact on the Government's drive to
sustain high levels of agricultural production, since adequate farm power and
implements are important inputs. Furthermore, one of the important prerequi-
sites for high crop yields is a good seedbed, which cannot be prepared, parti-
cularly in fine-textured soils, without adequate power for plowing, harrowing,
smoothing, and pulverizing the soil. These operations cannot all be performed
adequately by hand labor or by animal power in a short period of time. More-
over, timeliness of preparation may be equally important, even when only one
crop per year is grown. This is especially true in the rainfed wheat and
barley areas, where land preparation by man or animal power is difficult
before the first rains soften the ground. Such a delay in planting means
lost time for growth of the wheat early in the winter, which, in turn,
affects the yield.
13.       All this indicates that, in the time period considered here, it
is unlikely that mechanization will revolutionize agriculture in Iraq.
However, since efforts are being made in this direction and since they
will, of course, have some effect on the yields and production in the
country, they have been taken into consideration in projecting yield increases
in the north, center, and south of Iraq, even though farming practices will
generally remain primarily traditional. For example, yields average less
than 400 kg per hectare at present in the north, but, after taking into
account future mechanization and other variables, a projection of 550 kg per
hectare has been made, i.e., an increase of about 40% in the yield, which
appears quite feasible (Annex 5).
14.       Fertilizer and Other Chemicals.  As mentioned earlier, the use
of fertilizer is extremely limited now in the northeast region of Iraq,
due to the paucity and uncertainty of rains.  It has not played, nor can it
play, any significant role until more irrigation facilities are made
available.  As of now, Iraq uses less fertilizer (nitrogen, phosphate, and
potash) than any of its neighboring countries -  in 1968, Iraq used about
5,000 tons of nitrogen, 2,000 tons of phosphate, and about 500 tons of potash,
while Egypt used about 300,000 tons of nitrogen, 55,000 tons of phosphate,
and about 1,000 tons of potash.  Some fertilizer is used on cotton and
vegetables, but very little goes into the production of wheat and barley.
1/   A.P.G. Poyck, Farm Studies in Iraq, Wageningen Agricultural University,
Netherlands, 1969.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
It is not surprising, therefore, that land has been used for thousands of
years without a program of fertility maintenance can now sustain only low
yields.
15.       Although there is no domestic production of fertilizer at this
time, it could be manufactured, since Iraq is rich in oil and gas. An
ammonium-nitrate and ammonium-sulphate plant is expected to go into production
at Basrah soon, which will help reduce the present high cost to the farmer,
but domestic production will still fall far short of future requirements.
16.       Extension Service.  A major constraint in organizing an effective
extension service in Iraq is the shortage of trained personnel. The agricul-
tural extension service has a staff of about 500, 20% being college
graduates. In addition, professional workers have been severely limited
by the lack of really useful research results to take to farmers; by the
lack of necessary farm inputs, such as better seeds and fertilizers, to
make their teachings fully effective; and by the unresponsiveness of farmers,
due to illiteracy and lack of faith in extension workers.
17.       Extension workers have so many responsibilities at present that
they are unable to fulfill their intended functions adequately. They are
not only responsible for providing extension services, but they must also
sell farm inputs, collect agricultural statistics, and in some cases,
undertake regulatory work. The Government is now taking steps to overcome
some of these problems and has recently increased its allocation to the
service under the National Plan. There are only preliminary steps, however,
and much reamins to be done to transform the existing service into a real
and positive force. Such transformation would require a considerable
amount of time and organizational and financial support from the Government,
as well as a change in the attitude of the farmers. It is, therefore, not
realistic to think that a truly effective extension service could be
developed and radically improve the whole agricultural sector in the period
covered in this analysis.
Cooperative Movement
18.       According to the Land Refom Law of 1958 (amended 1970), no
individual can own more than about 200 irrigated hectares or about 400
non-irrigated hectares. Any land in excess of this may be appropriated and
placed under productive cooperatives, in order to improve agricultural
production and raise the standard of living of the farmers. The Government
is committed to provide such cooperatives with tractors, combines, water
pumps, and vehicles as well as trained supervisors and inspectors to
manage them. In addition, credit for planting, farm machinery, and other
inputs is provided by the Government-owned Agricultural Bank at an annual
interest rate of 3% without mortgage, compared to a 6% interest rate, plus
mortgage, charged to non-cooperative members. The Branch Managers of the
Agricultural Bank are themselves authorized to sanction loans to coopera-
tives for these purposes as long as they fall within the credit limits



ANNEX 1
Page 7
set each year by the Director-General of Cooperation and Production (Ministry
of Agrarian Reform) for each cooperative society. Between 1970 and 1971,
there was an increase of about 25% in the credit sanctioned for coopera-
tives by the Agricultural Bank and in the future, Government plans to
increase further the availability of credit on easy terms for the expansion
of planned agriculture.
19.       As of January 1972, about 810 productive cooperatives had
been established (Table 2), occupying about 25% of the land expropriated
so far. The remainder has been distributed in 10-ha holdings of irrigated
land and about 20-ha holdings of non-irrigated land to individual
farmers. These farmers at present, due to their financial and technical
limitations, lease their land to grain merchants on a share-cropping basis.
However, since the grain merchants are aware of the fact that this is a
temporary arrangement, they are neither interested in making any capital
improvement to the land, nor in applying innovations, which affects the
yield. The Government is fully aware of these problems and aims to
organize individual beneficiaries under productive cooperatives as soon
as possible.
20.       It is expected that by 1973 the land expropriation program will be
completed and that by 1976 about 30% and by 1980 about 40% of the land will
be organized under cooperatives. In the past, the main constraint in organizing
productive cooperatives has been the lack of trained managers and supervisors,
but efforts are being made to increase the number of these personnel by
stepping up training facilities - an additional 500 supervisors and 200
inspectors will be available by the end of 1972 to take charge of the
cooperatives. However, a shortage will exist for some time. Other problems
faced in managing these cooperatives will also continue to exist, the most
important ones being the inadequate experience of managerial staff, the
imperious attitude of the supervisors, bureaucratic routines, and such. In
view of all this, it would be unrealistic to expect that production under
the cooperatives will increase more than projected.
Agricultural Research
21.       Iraq maintains a structure of publicly supported agricultural
research, but it is subject to various limitations. Principal among
these are (a) the limited number of qualified people available; (b) the
lack of contact that these people have with similar institutions and
individuals in other countries, which limits their effectiveness and gives
rise to the possibility of repetition; and (c) the lack of experience
in agricultural research, since research efforts in a true sense have only
recently got underway in Iraq. Thus, although the people who are involved
in agricultural research are well qualified and are engaged in problems
tailored to Iraq's special needs, their work is hampered and no significant
results are expected in the short term.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Marketing and Pricing
22.       In the past, the interests of agricultural producers in Iraq
have generally been placed second to the interests of the consumer, which has
adversely affected agricultural production. While the Government has now
recognized the importance of adopting a positive agricultural pricing policy
as a tool for increasing the domestic production of grain, it is an extremely
complex issue that needs careful examination. A detailed discussion of this
particular aspect is presented in Annex 2.



ANNEX 1
Table 1
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Historical Production and Consumption - Wheat and Barley
Crops              Unit            1965  1966  1967   1968   1969  1970  1971/1
Wheat
Gross Prod   000 tons               985   826   860  1,200  1,165   995   500
/2                    /3
Yield-        kgs per Donum-        105   125   130    140    125   125   100
Imports      000 tons               108   178   178    100    315   210   950
Barley
Gross Prod   000 tons               806   832   840    855    885   901   700
12                    /3
Yield--       kgs per Donum-        180   170   185    190    195   195   140
Imports      000 tons                -      -     -       -     100   165   450
Exports      000 tons                26    25    18       53     12    -      -
/1   1971 was an extremely bad year because of the inadequate and untimely
rainfall.
/2   This is the national average.  Yields under irrigated areas in the
center and south of Iraq are higher than the national average.
/3   4 Donums - 1 ha.
Source:   Central Statistical Organization, Ministry of Planning, Baghdad,
Iraq.



ANNEX 1
Table 2
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Distribution of Cooperative Societies
Muhafadha                       Number of Cooperatives
NORrH
Ninevah-Dhok                               110
Sulaimaniya                                 25
Arbil                                       41
Kirkuk                                      63
Subtotal                              239
CENTER
Diala                                       42
Anbar                                       35
Baghdad                                     87
Waset                                       94
Babylon                                     59
Kerbela                                     24
Subtotal                              341
SOUTH
Qadissiya-Muthana                           88
Maysan                                      82
Thi-Qar                                     44
Basra                                       15
Subtotal                              229
GRAND TOTAL                           809



ANNEX 2
Page 1
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Grain Marketing and Pricing
Grain Marketing Organization
1.        Grain marketing in Iraq involves private traders, the Government-
owned Grain Board, flour mills and the agriculture productive corporations.
Private traders and the Grain Board, in fact, perform the true marketing
functions (buying, storing and selling of grain), while the flour mills are
the only channel through which grain is finally passed on to the public for
consumption, since it is -common practice in Iraq to purchase flour rather -
than raw wheat. Private traders at present are the most dominant force in
the marketing of grain in Iraq since they virtually control supply as well
as distribution.
Government Policies
2.        Government activities affecting grain marketing are limited to
issuing periodical minimum prices which, in fact, are not very effective,
since in normal years the grain trade is controlled mostly by private traders.
Moreover, the existing agriculture price policy is aimed at safeguarding the
interests of consumers and does not provide any incentive to producers,
thus negatively affecting the growth of agricultural output. Efforts to
provide marketing intelligence information for the whole trade are almost
negligible, and because of poor communications, throughout the Govern ent
trading system bad estimates of needs have been made, which have caused some
rather inefficient movements of commodities. The gluts of flow into import
facilities that occurred in 1971, for example, resulted in demurrage costs
and high levels of congestion in distribution and storage facilities through-
out the system. Lack of basic market intelligence also encourages speculative
activities and creates unnecessary confusion which, in turn, leads to socio-
economic unrest in the country.
Private Traders
3.        The private grain traders - "Siefs" (large traders) and "Alawis"
(medium-sized traders) - often are engaged in large-scale farming operations
as tenants on a share-crop basis 1/ as well as in marketing. The typical
1/   Most of the land rented by these traders belongs to small farmers (50-100
donum), who received it under the land reform of 1958 and who are at
present unable, technically and financially, to operate independently.
It is the Government's intention to organize these small farmers under
government-supported productive cooperatives, but due to technical and
administrative problems, this objective has not yet been achieved. The
tenant-trader is typically renting from a large number of small farmers to
acquire 2,000 to 10,000 donum tracts.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
share arrangement is 25% of the crop for the landowner and 75% for the tenant-
traders for providing tractors, combines, seed, and other purchased inputs,
including labor. This percentage, however, varies, depending upon the
resources supplied by each of the parties. In addition, the traders frequently
advance credit to the landowners for their expenses during the pre-harvest
period and claim repayment by withholding a portion of the landowners'
share of the crop. Private traders obtain the majority of their grain
for marketing through such arrangements, although they also purchase grain
from individual farmers to meet their requirements.
4.        The number of private traders (Siefs and Alawis together) involved
in the movement of grain from farmer to consumer is estimated to be slightly
over 1,000, which is rather few in view of the;magnitude of the trade in Iraq
(1.3 million tons of wheat and barley per year).  Frequently, grain
wi.l change ownership four or five times in moving from producer to user,
with each transfer of ownership involving additional handling of bagged
grain. A typical market flow is as follows; although numerous variations
exist;
Farener
Grain Broker
Larger Traders               Grain,Board
Medium-sized Traders
Retail Merchants -         Private Flour Mills   State-owned Flour Mills.
However, irrespective of flow patterns, numerous exchanges in ownership occur
between traders before grain is finally received by the mills. The major
portion of the grain handled by the private traders is sold to the private
flour mills, which, in turn, sells it to the Government flour mills.
5.        Private traders also own grain storage facilities (estimated at
about 1.4 million tons capacity), but they are in general, inadequate
and designed to handle only limited quantities. These facilities are des-
cribed in paragraph 16.
Cooperatives
6.        Agriculture productive cooperatives have at present storage space for
about 40,000 metric tons of grain - 30 large warehouses (500 m2 with 4 m
ceilings) for regional cooperatives (500 tons each) and 336 small (80 tons each)
general purpose warehouses (80 m2 with 3.8 m ceiling). An additional 70
large warehouses are being completed and, by 1974, 500 local cooperatives
should have small warehouses. Total cooperative storage would be about
90,000 tons. All these facilities are multipurpose and consist of a concrete
floor and a roof. Some have brick walls and partitions. Government plans
to provide such facilities at each of the cooperatives by the end of 1975
and to encourage storage of grain in bagged form two to three months after
harvest. There are no plans to provide for long-term bulk storage at



ANNEX 2
Page 3
the cooperatives, since the cooperatives intend to rely on the Grain Board
for that.  Since it is expected that bv 1980 cooperative societies will
account for about 40% of the total grain production, their role in handling
and distribution will become increasingly significant.
Flour Mills
7.        Although the flour mills do not enter directly into the marketing
channel, they are the only instrument for purchasing raw grain, processing
it, and distributing it to the public. These mills are, therefore, important
institutions. Flour mills have their own storage facilities, both for raw
grain and for processed flour (about 63,000 tons in the private sector
and about 29,000 tons, Table 1, in the public sector).
8.        At present, about 85% of the nation's milling capacity is in the
private sector. There are about 26 modern commercial flour mills, with a
total daily capacity of about 1,100 tons, and an estimated annual throughput
of some 302,000 tons of wheat. In addition, it is estimated that there are
about 1,000 artisan stone custom mills in the private sector, with an estimat-
ed annual throughput of some 922,500 metric tons of wheat (Table 2). These--
mills are traditional, however, and not really suited for scientific processing.
The private sector also owns a number of custom-type feed mills.
9.        The Government sector - The General Company of Flour Mills - owns
four flour mills, with a daily milling capacity of about 640 tons and an
es'imated annual throughput of some 230,000 tons of wheat (about 20% of
the nation's milling capacity). In addition, four new flour mills are
expected to be in operation by 1975, having a total daily milling capacity
of 800 tons (Table 3). Government is also in the process of constructing
three new feed mills that will be owned and operated by the Government
Poultry Company. At present, feed-milling capacity is limited and Government
relies primarily on private operations.
Grain Board
10.       Government's direct participation in grain marketing has been
recent and limited in scope. The Grain Board (Annex 3), the only Government
agency involved in this field, is responsible for purchasing and storing
wheat to supply to the State-owned flour mills, and it also supplies barley
to Government departments such as the Defense Ministry, the Government
Poultry Company, the Ministry of Livestock, and the State-owned brewing
company. The Board generally procures its grain from private traders, but
also purchases directly from farmers. At present, however, such purchases
involve only about 10 to 12% of the total grain entering the marketing
channel from domestic sources. On the other hand, during bad crop years,
the Grain Board plays an extremely important role in grain marketing, since
it controls the export-import trade and therefore must supply grain to both
state-owned and private flour mills. The Grain Board owns modern storage



ANNEX 2
Page 4
facilities (about 242,000 tons capacity with an additional 100,000 tons under
construction), primarily for Government-procured grain, but some grain (about
20% of its total storage capacity) belonging to private traders is also
stored on a fee basis.
Characteristics of the Grain Marketing Systm
11.       The present grain marketing organization is characterized by imper-
fect competition. These tendencies are readily observable in Iraq and can
be well supported by statistical examination (Tables 4, 5, and 6). The price
index of wheat rose from 108 in August 1970 to 188 in March 1971, an increase
of some 75% (Table 4), while the price index of barley rose from 87 in May
1969 to 221 in October 1970 (Table 5). This is more than a 150% fluctuation
in price level in just over a year's time, which provides a substantial
incentive to traders to acquire inventories of commodities and store them
for some time to obtain speculative gains, especially since price differentials
between different seasons of the year far exceed the cost of storage. Wide
fluctuations in yields for climatic reasons and Government's inability to
maintain an even supply, due to the lack of an adequate market intelligence
service and storage facilities also make speculation attractive. On the other
hand, in the case of rice, where Government maintains an even flow of grain
to the market system from imported sources, prices appear to be more stable
(Table 6).
12.       This indicates that if Government aims to reduce speculative activi-
ties in the wheat and barley market, a ste-ady flow of supplies to the market
must be maintained by the Grain Board. In order to achieve this, it is
essential that the present storage facilities owned by the Grain Board be
expanded and an adequate market intelligence system be established. Only
then would Government be able to ensure adequate food supplies to consumers
from year to year, thus discouraging speculative activities, especially
unnecessary holding of grain, which last year led to disorderly market
situations and to consumer panic in periods of short supply in the Baghdad
area. The experience of the past year has also shown that legislation
alone in a system where supply and distribution are controlled by private
traders is of very little significance. Such measures must be supported by
the Government's direct participation in the trade.
13.       A second area of weakness observed in the Iraq grain- market is the
opportunity traders have for oligopolistic profits. For example, the
private trader places himself in a strong bargaining position by purchasing
the small landowner's share of the crop at harvest time and then holding it
for later sale when supplies have dwindled. He thereby achieves a position
of power such as is found in a typical oligopolistic market situation.
14.       The presence of oligopolistic elements in the Iraqi grain market
can also be detected in noting the varying marketing margins obtainable
for the same quality of wheat in different parts of the country. It is
estimated that market margins for siefs and alawis each average about ID 10
per ton. Such high margins may be caused either by substantially different



ANNEX 2
Page 5
levels of efficiency or by varying degrees of control that might exist within
different segments or regions of the market. However, since levels of
efficiency were not found to vary much from one part of the country to the
other, different margins seem likely to result from varying levels of control.
These observations were supported by Government officials.
High Private Marketing Costs
15.       Since private traders exercise considerable control in the present
grain marketing system in Iraq, they are not subject to pressure to improve
their individual operations. As a result, the level of efficiency of marketing,
transportation, storage, and processing, lags behind that of other countries,
and leads to high marketing costs. Moreover, the existing private facilities
are not capable of handling rapid increases in agricultural production
expected to result from new technological advances.
16.       Storage capacity for grain moving through the private trade is
located in the towns and cities of the production areas. The types of storage
include open courtyards (for short term post harvest storage) enclosed ware-
houses and open front stalls. There is no silo storage in the private sector
and construction of new storage is not taking place. The total capacity of
private storage is estimated at 1.4 milion tons. Capacity of individual
units vary from about 5 to 5,000 tons, while smaller wholesalers facilities
are in the 100 to 500 category. Storage facilities below 100 tons are used
by retailers.
17.       The maintenance and construction quality of the facilities vary
considerably. Some facilities are over 100 years old, enclosed and well
maintained. Others with open fronts or badly maintained doors, wall-floor
joints and roofs do not give adequate protection from rain, insects and
rodents. In general the storage environment of the main producing areas is
very favorable; grain is harvested at a low moisture content (6 1/2%) and
the seasonal winter conditions deter insect reproduction. Thus losses should
be minimal with adequate facilities. Given the overall condition of facil-
ities, it is estimated that storage losses in the various types of facilities
average about 3% in each type of facility for the related storage period.
Since privately traded grain is resold and restored several times, the total
storage loss is estimated at 8% by weight. This compares to a 2% loss rate
in the Grain Board system. Moreover, facilities are geared to handle only
bagged grain (100 kg), which is expensive and time-consuming and requires
large amounts of hand labor. This, in turn, causes a congestion of trucks
waiting for loading and unloading. It is estimated that the cost of handling
bagged grain by the private sector is approximately I.D. 1.8 per ton, while
the cost of bulk handling by the grain Board is I.D. 0.52 per ton. In ad-
dition, the numerous marketing steps increase costs.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Conclusion
18.       As the level of agricultural production in Iraq increases, there
are sufficient grounds for advancing the levels of technology employed in
the marketing system and for improving handling and storage practices and
procedures throughout the entire grain marketing sector. These improvements
would enable the marketing system to provide higher returns to farmers or
lower prices to consumers, or a combination of both, since grain could then
be stored and handled at lower margins than those existing in the present
system. In addition, the marketing system should be flexible and adaptive
to the changing market conditions that would occur in a dynamic growing
economy such as is envisaged for Iraq in the coming years.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Government Flour Mills Storage Capacity
(in tons)
I. PRESENT
Baghdad
Items        Locations:  Baghdad    Shaab    Mosul   Basrah   Total
Grain Storage Bulk                3,000        900    1,600      240    5,740
Grain Storage Bagged              2,000        200   18,400      260   20,860
Total Grain Storage          5,000      1,100   20,000      500   26,600
Flour Storage Bulk                   240       240       50       -       530
Flour Storage Bagged                500      2,500    2,000   2,000    7,000
Total Flour Storage            740      2,740    2,050   2,000    7,530
II. PLANNED
Locations:  Baghdad    Kirkuk    Mosul       Basrah   Total
Completion
Items          Date:      Oct 1974  Oct 1974  Oct 1974  Jun 1975
Bulk Grain Storage                 300        300       300        600     1,500
Bulk Flour Storage                 850        850       850        850     3,400
Bagged Flour Storage             2,000      2,000     2,000      2,000     8,000
Total Flour Storage         2,850      2,850     2,850      2,850    11,400
Source:   Government Commercial Flour Mills, Baghdad.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Private Sector Mills
Modern Mills
App. Annual
Location         No. of Mills          Total Capacity           Throughput
(in ton grain/24 hours)    (in ton grain)
Baghdad                16                    720                 205,00  1
Basra                   2                     70                  20,5002
Bahylon                 6                    210                  61,50 ,
Arbil                   1                     20                   5,700,2
iMosul                  1                     30                   8,800--
Total            26                  1,050                  301,500
Artisan Stone Buhr Custom Hlills
(Capacities typically vary from 1/2 ton
to 2 ton per hour grain throughput
product - 100% whole wheat flour to be
hom.e-sieved)
Location         iio. of Mills         Estimated Annual Throughput
(in ton grain)
Baghdad               207
Wasit                  29
Ramadi                  9
Digala                 91
Babvlon                61
Kerbala                47
:Cadissiah            61
4uthana                16
Thi-Khar               75
'isan                  32
Kirkuks                42
Salaimanya             21
Arbil                  39
TDohuk                 69
Nineveh                31
Basra                  13
Total Counted       843                        785,700
Est. Uncounted    205                          136,800
Est. Total       1,048                         922,500 tons
/1   Based on 6 mon. reported production, period ending 31 December
1971, Source GCFM.
/2   Baseci on sare capacity utilization as in note /1, actual not known.
Source:   Government Commercial Flour Mlills, Baghdad.



ANNEX 2
Table 3
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Government Flour Mills Daily Milling Capacity
(in tons)
Location        Present        Planned        Total
Baghdad           120            200            320
Baghdad Shaab    280              -             280
Mosul             140            200            340
Basra             100            200            300
Kirkuk                           200            200
Total       640            800          1,440
Source:  Government Commercial Flour Mills, Baghdad.



ANNEX 2
Table 4
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Seasonal Index of Soft Wheat (Grade I) Wholesale Prices,
Baghdad Market  -  1968-71
(January 1969 X 100)
Month                1968      1969      1970      1971
January              139       100       110       150
February             138        95       109      143
March                131        88       118       188
April                119        83       122
May                  106        82       110
June                  99        82       110
July                  98        86       108
August               103        91       108
September            100        91       114
October               96        93       132
November              99        94       138
December             100       105       151
Source:   Department of Research and Statistics,
Iraq Grain Board, 1972.



ANNEX 2
Table 5
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Seasonal Index of Barley (Clean Barley) Wholesale Prices,
Baghdad Market  -  1967-70
(January 1969 - 100)
Month                1967      1968      1969     1970
January              157       126       100      134
February             202       119        93      123
March                217       106        90      119
April                218        91        89      137
May                  197        94        87      135
June                 157       100        89      156
July                 172       105       104      160
August               175       103        99      176
September            172       101        99      194
October              169        98        96      221
November             165       102       106       *
December             149       105       121       *
*    Data not available.
Source:   Department of Research and Statistics,
Iraq Grain Board, 1972.



ANNEX 2
Table 6
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
SeasonaL Index of RPUce (Gtadwe I Amber Rice)X Wholesale krices.,
Wagdad; Market -  1967-71-
(January 1969   T tOO&
Month                196?    196&      T969      T970a    T97T
January              M26       TV7      1T0a      t3       t31
February             130(     1-07       99       11t3     t29
March                 32z      t-3       99       11:9     t33
April                T36       V4-      101t1      TI1     135
May                  138       tfIT     1         TV1      136
June                 139       IT      t1Z         t19     T38
July                 T40                106       123      138
August               135       107      109       t30      133
September            13t       107      tOt       135      132
October              126       107      114       144      132
November             11t4       98      t08       126      121
December             t1o      102       103       128      126
Source:   Department of Research and Statistics, Iraq
Graifn Board, 1972.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Grain Storage Losses and Hazards
Storage Loss Observations
1.        In general, it is nearly impossible to estimate accurately storage
loss rates in a nationwide grain industry, such as is represented by the
farmgate-to-consumer-market movement in Iraq. At some point in that chain
of storage and handling activities, each single factor of microbial, insect,
rodent, bird, domestic animal, and human, combinations of two or more such
factors, can result in losses ranging from 0 to 100% of a given lot. To
investigate actual storage conditions, 20 private trader facilities
located throughout the country were inspected by the mission and local
experts were consulted to determine the natural conditions prevailing
throughout Iraq that would be conducive to storage losses. Silo and
warehouses facilities of the Grain Board were of course, also visited.
Situations as observed are described below.
2.        Microbial.  Domestic wheat and barley are typically harvested at
such low moisture levels, average of 6-1/2%, that there is no hazard whatsoever
to these grains from microbes if they are kept dry. Much of the imported
grain on the other hand, is of higher moisture content and presents some
hazard, even in safe storage. Observations relating to microbial damage
were as follows:
(a) Grain stored on the ground at the farm probably reaches the
first point of commercial storage in a fairly safe condition
if it is kept covered and moved prior to the first fall rains.
However grain is often left uncovered at the farm in a "farm
pile" and is therefore susceptible to loss and damage by birds;
(b) Grain observed in water-free open-front siefs and alawis was
generally free of. any evidence of microbial deterioration;
(c) Grain in leaky, wet, sief storage bags showed severe evidence
of microbial damage; and
(d) All Grain Board facilities inspected were dry, showing no
evidence of microbial loss, except at the Baghdad steel silo
location where the inventory was piled on concrete in the



ANNEX 3
Page 2
open and tarpaulin covered and showed evidence of wet and
moldy grain.  Some 140,000 tons, principally barley, were
stored in the open at Basrah at great risk. One wet and
moldy lot was observed on the Basrah Port Dock.
3.        Insects.  The following insects are found in Iraq:
(a)  Khapra Beetle - widely distributed, a super pest;
(b) Granary Weevil - present, but not a major pest;
(c) Rice Weevil - widely distributed, a major pest;
(d) Saw-Toothed Grain Beetle - widely distributed, a major pest;
(e) Merchant Grain Beetle - present, but a minor pest;
(f) Rust Red Flour Beetle - widely distributed, a major pest;
(g) Confused Flour Beetle - present, but a minor pest;
(h) Lesser Grain Borer - present, but a minor pest;
(i) Larger Grain Borer - present, a major pest of maize, recent
import, but not found in other graips;
'j) Cacao Moth - present, a minor pest;
(k) Mediterranean Flour Moth - widely distributed, a major pest;
(1) Indian Meal Moth - widely distributed, a major pest; and
(m) Several Mites - widely distributed, a minor pest.
4.        Because domestic wheat and barley are harvested at low moistures
(para 2), they are almost entirely safe from insect pests since only one of
the 12 insects - the Khapara Beetle - infesting grain in Iraq can survive
and reproduce under such conditions and none of the mites present can
live. It should be noted that storage structure inspections were made under
low temperature and winter conditions wherein none of the insects and mites
present in Iraq could be active and reproducing, which no doubt explains the
low incidence of live insects observed. Findings of the inspections are as
follows:
(a) Most domestic grain observed was free of live insects in
and about the storage, with two exceptions: poor Baghdad
merchant sief had a heavy infestation of live, dormant



ANNEX 3
Page 3
borers and weevils and a reasonably good Mosul sief storage
also showed live but dormant weevils. All sief and Grain
Board warehouses, in Baghdad showed relatively heavy dead
infestations, particularly in rice; and
(b) While the materials used for fumigation and spraying are
the recommended types, they are not always applied properly.
Bins under fumigation with phosphene gas were not closed at
the top and warehouses are fumigated without a cover over
the produce to retain killing concentrations. At best, such
methods will only reduce the population and at worst, it will
be quite ineffective.
5.        Rodents.  House rat, Norway rat, field mouse and house mouse
types are found in Iraq. These species of rats and mice are usually quite
destructive to grain, but, during the inspections of the open siefs and
alawis, only slight evidence of serious rodent predation was found. In
fact, most of the operators questioned said that rodents were not a problem.
Certainly, conditions for seriously high populations are present in such
storage facilities; harborage, food, and water are abundant. All Grain Board
facilities inspected were of sound construction and capable of storing cereal
grains safe from rodent predation.
6.        Birds.  Pigeons, doves, starlings, and sparrows are found in Iraq
and all siefs inspected showed the presence of high bird populations on and
about the grain. While there are heavy bird populations on the outside of
the Grain Board facilities, no birds were seen inside facilities, and there
was no excreta observed on the main inventory.
7.        Domestic Animals.  Two siefs were visited in which several domestic
animals and poultry were stabled. The animals were tethered in empty
storage areas while the poultry was loose to eat and contaminate inventories.
8.        Human.  In general, all operators appeared to be well aware of the
possibility of losses by theft. Doors are therefore locked and premises are
guarded.
Storage Loss Estimates
9.        Estimates of storage loss rates, taking into account the above
observations and the probable length of storage in the various types of
facilities involved in the present and future storage of domestic grain (Table
1), showed that storage in farm piles, siefs and alawis have a loss rates of4%,
3%, 3% each by weight respectively. The loss rate for the cooperative ware-
houses being built is 2% by weight and that for Grain Board storage facilities
is 1.0%.
10.       Estimate were also made to determine the percentage storage loss
in the present private trade grain flow and the percentage storage losses in
the future on a with-or-without-the project basis. The estimate of present
storage losses through the private system is 8X by weight. By comparison,



ANNEX 3
Page 4
the estimate of storage losses on the projected flow through the project
facilities is only 2%. Thus, there is an estimated 5 percentage points of
reduction in storage loss rates possible through the proposed project facil-
ities. However in the calculations of economic benefits accruing from the
project, a conservative estimate of a reduction of only 3 percentage points
on the grain passing through the project facilities was used (Annex 17).
11.       Imports.  Practically all imported grain is infested and all receipts
are inspected by a plant quarantine inspector. Infested grain is accepted
only if it can be determined that the grain can be fumigated satisfactorily in
the Basrah silo. The one shipment rejected to date contained 11 separate
species, plus mites. Two of the insects were exotic to Iraq.
12.       Because of the shortage of Grain Board storage capacity for the
volume of imports received in 1971, grain was bagged at either the port
silo or the general cargo dock and transported to open fields nearby where
it was stocked on straw or leaf mats and covered with polyethene sheets.
Efforts were made to provide drainage between the stacks. This procedure
was about the best that could be followed under the circumstances, but,
even so, the grain suffered substantial losses. Grain Board officials
found it difficult to keep the polyethylene sheets in place during high
winds and bags were often exposed to damage by birds and rain. The drainage
was not 100% effective and the mats absorbed moisture from the ground,
which allowed the lowe; levels to become wet. Furthermore, since the grain
was in bagged form in outlying fields, it could not be dried by the silo
facility nor could it be properly fumigated. The loss rate under these
conditions was conservatively estimated to be about 3% from all factors.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Present Storage Loss Rates and Reduction Potential
1.   Present Storage Loss Rates
Mould  Rodents  Birds  Insects  Handling  Total
Farm Pile              -        -      2.5      0.75      0.75      4.0
Sief Storage          0.25   0.25      0.5      1.5       0.5        3.0
Alawi Storage         0.25   0.25       0.5     1.5       0.5        3.0
Cooperative Seorage   -         -      0.25    1.25       0.5        2.0
Grain Board Silo-
Storage             0.25      -        -      0.25      0.5        1.0
Ground Storage -
Basrah              0.75      -      0.25    1.5        0.5        3.0
2.   Domestic Grain Storage from the Field to the Mills
(a) Estimate of the present storage losses (private system)
By Weight (%)
Combine to sief storage, (50%) - (3%)                      1.5
Combine to farm pile to sief storage, (50%) - (7%)         3.5
Sief to alawi storage to mill                              3.0
Total           8.0
With project (Grain Board)
Combine to Grain Board silo storage to mills,
1% (50% of grain  flow)                            0.5
Combine to cooperative storage to Grain Board
silo storage to mills, 3% (50% of grain flow)   1.5
Total           2.0






ANNEX 4
Page 1
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
The Grain Board
Introduction
1.        The Grain Board, part of the State organization of Grain and
Enterprises, which also includes the State Company of Flour Mills and the
State Supply Administration, is attached to the Ministry of Economics.
These three State organizations were reorganized according to Gazette No.
1866 of the Government of Iraq, issued on April 6, 1970.
Major Responsibilities
2.        According to Law No. 85, Article 2, of 1961 (Amended 1970), the
Grain Board is designed to carry out the following activities in the grain
trade:
(a) purchase locally, import, and sell grain;
(b) export grain to foreign markets by selling or bartering
or in execution of trade agreements;
(c) seize, with the approval of the Minister of Economics,
all kinds of grain or specified kinds and quantities
when such action is required to serve the national
economic interest;
(d) test grain for domestic and foreign trade purposes;
(e) control weight, kind, and quality;
(f) classify Iraqi grain into commercial types and grades;
(g) erect modern grain elevators (silos) and warehouses and
set up test laboratories;
(h) issue mortgage receipts and certificates for private
grain stored in the Grain Board's elevators and warehouses;



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(i) supply grains to the State Company of Flour Mills (wheat)
and to Government departments such as the Ministry of
Defense and the Ministry of Livestock (barley) and, in
a bad crop year, to the private flour mills.
Management and Organization
3.        The Grain Board is managed by a Board of Directors whose members
include the president of the State Organization of Grain (Chairman), and the
directors-general of the Grain Board, the State Company of Flour Mills, and
the State Supply Administration. This Board meets once a month to determine,
with the guidance of the Ministry of Economics, policy and to decide broad
issues, such as prices and quantities of grain to be purchased and sold by
the Grain Board. Day-to-day operations of the Grain Board are in the hands
of a director-general, assisted by assistant directors-general in charge of--
the various departments: Commercial, Technical, Projects, and Personnel
and Finance (Chart 1).
4.        The Projects Department is responsible for the preparation and
construction of all new grain storage projects and, at present, is engaged
in supervising the construction of 17 new silos being supplied by the USSR and
East Germany (para 8). The Commercial Department, divided into three
main sections -- domestic trade, foreign trade, and market research -- is
charged with planning marketing strategy (imports, sales, purchases,
distribution channels, transportation, storage, advertising, and such) and
formulating the general plan, of work for the Grain Board, within the frame-
work of the Economic Development Plan. The Market Research Division,
responsible for conducting economic and marketing research connected with
domestic and foreign trade in general, is, however, weak. Under the Project,
therefore, two well-qualified and experienced economists would be engaged
to strengthen the division and assist with its work. The Grain Board has
already hired a trained systems analyst to survey some of the basic problems
related to efficient operation of silos.
5.        At present there are about 138 staff members at Baghdad head-
quarters, 115 of which are professional. Engineers, technicians, and
managers are well qualified and experienced. In addition, there are
about 100 permanent staff members engaged in the operation of the silos,
each of which is headed by a manager who is a trained engineer and capable
of supervising all activities at his plant. Although the local silos are
under the overall control of the Assistant Director-General for Personnel
and Finance, operators have considerable independence in making decisions.
Manual work at the silos is performed by labor on a contract basis. A
detailed organization chart of the Grain Board is presented in Chart 1.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Grain Board's Operation
6.        The Board of Directors, with the guidance of the Ministry of
Economics, periodically issues a list of prices and quantities to be pur-
chased by the Grain Board. This list is advertised in those areas in which
Grain Board silos are situated and local silo managers then purchase grain
from domestic sources within the limits set. After storage, the grain is
sold to the General Company of Flour Mills at prices that take into con-
sideration the operational and capital costs and allows for a small profit.
When sales are made to private flour mills, the Grain Board charges about
10 to 15% more than it collects from Government-owned mills. In the past,
due to poor domestic crops, lack of storage facilities, and such, Grain
Board purchases from domestic sources have been nominal (about 10% of the
total domestic grain available for marketing), but they are expected to
increase to about 33% as a result of increased cooperative societies and
storage facilities (Annex 6). The Grain Board also makes its storage
facilities available to private traders on a fee basis (this constituted
about 20% of the Grain Board's total storage capacity in 1970/71).
Finance
7.        Although the Grain Board is expected to achieve a level of
financial self-sufficiency from its operations, its buying and selling
operations are subject to limitations imposed by Government policy. As
indicated in Annex 2, a dominant Government policy in the past has been
to safeguard consumer interests and in fact subsidize bread from Government
bakeries. Part of the cost of this subsidy must be borne by the Grain
Board which sells wheat to the Government Flour Mills at fixed prices. In
the past the Grain Board has usually been able to cover this subsidy since
it imports wheat at a price much lower than the wholesale price for
domestic wheat. The Board's Trading Account indicated a profit in 1968/69
and 1970/71 but, in 1969/70, a loss was incurred due to a decision of the
Government to export barley at a loss in an effort to maintain customers
for future years when barley production would increase. Funds for expansion
of facilities and support of new projects are provided from the Economic
Development Plan. In the years when the Grain Board earns a net profit, part
is distributed to the Economic Development Plan and the State Budget and
part is retained by the Grain Board. In the past, the contributions to the
Economic Development Plan and State Budget which the Grain Board must make
from its profit have been based on both fixed amounts and percentages. The
system of Government financing of development projects would be applied
to the funds provided for the project facilities. The Grain Board would
repay the National Development Plan with a percentage of its profits.
The Grain Board's Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Accounts for 1968/69,
1969/70, and 1970/71 are presented in Tables 1, 2 and silo cost schedule
for 1971 in Table 3.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Storage Facilities
8.        At present the Grain Board owns and operates eight modern storage
facilities located in Basrah, Baghdad, Kut, Hills, Erbil, and Mosul. The
nominal grain storage capacity for wheat and barley is some 164,000 tons in
silos and about 78,000 tons for bagged grain in associated warehouses. A
brief description of each facility is presented in Appendix A. By 1974, it
is expected that 17 new silos will have been added -- 10 silos of 10,000
tons capacity each will be supplied by the USSR for wheat and barley and
seven silos of 16,000 tons capacity each will be supplied by East Germany
for rice. Additionally, further 48,000 tons of associated shed storage is
under construction. All these will bring the Grain Board's total storage
capacity to some 264,000 tons bulk storage for wheat and barley, 112,000
tons bulk storage for rice, and 123,000 tons for bagged grain in associated
warehouses. While there is presently no storage space specifically designed
for maize, it is expected that by 1974, such facilities will be constructed.
9.        With the expansion of storage facilities already planned and with
the facilities to be provided under the project, it would be essential to
develop a new system utilizing computer facilities for efficient control.
The project, therefore, would finance a study to examine this issue in depth
(Annex 11) and to cover the purchase of equipment necessary for the implementa-
tion of such a system.



ANNEX 4
Appendix A
Page 1
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Grain Board Facilities
1.        Existing Grain Board facilities, with the exception of the one at
Basrah, are designed primarily to handle grain from domestic sources; however,
due to the lack of an effective marketing organization and to poor crops in
recent years they are, at present, being used mainly for handling imported
grain. The Basrah silo, originally planned to deal with exports, has been
used recently only for imports.
2.        All silos, constructed in recent years, incorporate modern
engineering methods for receiving and delivering grain and each provides
cleaning, storing, drying, weighing, fumigation, and other standard services.
A description of these facilities follows.
Basrah
3.        This facility was built in 1961, exclusively for handling large
volumes of exports that has been projected. It is located on the Shatt-
Al-Arab river and has a wharf which can accommodate one ship of about
18,000 DWT, with a draft of 9.1 m (30 feet), at a time. Due to the Karnn Bar
in the Shatt-Al-Arab, however, only vessels drawing 8.8 m (29 feet) or less
can reach Basrah. In addition, there is dock space for two average sized
barges (600 tons).
4.        Since only about 10% of the ships moving grain to Basrah can
navigate in 8.8 m fully loaded, lightering at the Port of Um Qasr is
generally necessary. This port can receive vessels drawing 9.8 m (32 feet)
at mean high tide and practically all are lightered at the port dock, which
has three wharves with a depth of 10.1 m (33 feet) alongside. A crew of
six to eight of the regular operations team from the Basrah silo is sent to
Um Qasr to perform the actual operation, using portable equipment.
5.        The transit time from Um Qasr to Basrah by ship averages 24 hours.
There is also a standard gauge railroad link between the port and Basrah and
it is connected to the national standard gauge system. Additionally, there
are plans to construct an inland barge canal connecting Um Qasr to the
Shatt-Al-Arab-Tigris inland waterway system.
6.        Two pneumatic unloading systems, with 80-ton-per-hour capacity
each are available and there are two mobile pneumatic receiving units
serving the barge berths. Other equipment includes 12 portable pneumatic



ANNEX 4
Appendix A
Page 2
unloading machines and 10 diesel-driven units. Two units are stationed
permanently at the Port of Um Qasr. There are two separate facilities for
unloading grain from rail and truck (160 tons per hour each) and both are
capable of receiving simultaneously and handling into storage separately.
However, in recent years, grains has only rarely been received by either of
these modes of transportation.
7.        The Basrah port silo consists of 72 circular bins, each with a
capacity of 810 tons, and 36 interstice bins with a capacity of 160 tons each,
bringing the total nominal storage capacity to some 65,000 tons. In addition
there is warehouse space for 16,000 tons of bagged grain. Since the facility
was not designed for handling large volumes of imports considerable delays
have been experienced during the last year in unloading ships at Basrah,
which has resulted in high demurrage and operational costs (Annex 17).
Mosul, Erbil and Hilla
9.        These facilities were completed in 1961 and all silos are similar
in design but not in storage capacity. Mosul's total capacity is about
31,000 tons, consisting of batteries of six bins each (totaling about 23,300
tons) and one battery of five steel tanks (totaling about 8,000 tons). Mosul
also has a warehouse storage capacity of 16,000 tons for bagged grain.
10.       Erbil and Hilla have a total storage capacity of about 16,000 and
8,000 tons, respectively, and by the end of June 1972 they should also have
warehouse storage capacity of 8,000 tons each. At present, neither of the
silos has provision for bulk loading and unloading.
Kut and Baghdad Concrete Silos
11.       These silos were designed and equipped by the USSR. The kut silo
has a grain storage capacity of about 13,000 tons, while the Baghdad silo
has a capacity of about 14,000 tons. In addition the Baghdad silo has ware-
house storage space for 7,000 tons of bagged grain. An 8,000 ton warehouse
capacity is expected to be completed at Kut by the end of this year.
12.       Kut, located on the bank of the Tigris river, has a pneumatic
barge unloading system with a capacity of 100 tons per hour, but no rail
service. Baghdad has a rail service and a sacked grain receiving facility
of 40 tons per hour. Neither has, at present, bulk loading or unloading
facilities.
Concrete Baghdad Silo
13.       This facility is located on the bank of the Tigris river, adjacent
to the USSR-supplied concrete silo. It has the capacity of storing about
5,000 tons of grain. There are three separate systems for unloading -- barge,
truck, and rail car -- and barge system is also used to load.



ANNEX 4
Appendix A
Page 3
Baghdad Steel Silo
14.       This facility is located away from the water and has a total
grain storage capacity of 12,000 tons, consisting of cylindrical steel
tanks. In addition, there is warehouse space for more than 15,000 tons.
Bin discharge occurs through the same 20 tons-per-hour elevator used
for receiving, which precludes receiving and shipping simultaneously
from the same battery. This facility does not have any cleaniug, disc
separation, or drying equipment.






IRAQ
(BAIN {3TORAGE PROJECT
Grain Board
Comparative Balance Sheet for Pisoal Years 1969, 1970 and 1971
1969           1970             1971                                                                          1969             1970            1971
------------(ID)---                                                                                                       --------- (ID)-
CU-iRENT ASSETS:                                                                                         CURRENT LIABILIT IE:
Cash:                                                                                                     Accrued Expenses                            9,780           10,842          123,o 5
Cash it, hand                             117            2,381           13,257
Cash at Bank                          277,176           94,380          643,954                         Deposits Iteceived                          1,675            5,301            2, Z'J
Central Bank Baghdad                  129,043          157,965                                          Sundry Credit Baj nce                      33,24+           io,i64'
Fixed Dep. Radian Bank                800,000             -                _
Receivables & Prepaid Expenses:
Variage Adrvances                       2,452            3,296            3,539
Sundry Advances                            734           2,858           47,503                         Appropriotian fPr Income Tax               43,855             _             900,5,
Deposits Paid                              13              129              186
Income 'ieceivables                        48            2,553                                          Discrepancies in Grain Sales               21,364        1
Compensation of Export Losses
lteceivable                        -             261,979                                          Appropriation for National Defense for
Prepaid Expenses                        2,502            2,5411               3                              Tax purposes                            -                -             120,021+
Letters of Credit                        -             131,285
Rice consuners                        212,715          149,212          68a,046                         Share of the economic plan coipbution - -                                   172,172
Sundry Debitors                          -              59,587          342,785pr
Cost of Grain Ors.                                     190,709           22,709                          Allocation for paymoent for expeWditure
of the economic plan on behalf
Inventories:                                                                                                   of authority                            -                              219,307
Grain                                 612,119          749,656          428,379                          Share of the State Budget                   -                 -            176,189
Grain Books                                198             142               34S
Deposits & Expenses on Letters of                                                                        Sharaofi StBt  Organization of 
credit fully paid                   19,857           41,201        2,27[3Be2
Spare Parts                           120,930          13N~,3415        14r3a99
Total Coirrent Assets           2,177,904       1,984,819        [1,607,616                      LONG TERM LOANS:
Central Bank Loan                        200,000
FIXED ASSETS.                                                                                              DIR-GEN. OF ACCOUNTS:
Lard, Bldg., Furniture and Fixtuires                  10,223,144       10,1441,603                         Difference of Grain Tax for years
Accumulated Dep.                                     ( 2,614,375)    ( 2,967,931)                              1939-62                              102,505          102,505           102,505
Econormic Plan Income Advances             3,477            7,39b            G,9';
Net of Depreciation;                6,654,243        7,608,769        7,473,677
Economic Planl Project under                                                                             STOCKHOLDElS EQ5UITY:
construction                       674,422         [406,698          314,890
Less Amounts received                ( 609,034)    (   152,971)    (    12,1497)                           Capital Stock (authorized 15,000,000)
Paid in Capital                      5,649,195       5,649,D)5        5,01r0,
INVESTMENTS:                                                                                                 Capital Paid in by Economic Plan             -           1,264,923        1,135,635
Compensation Bond of flat. Cos.          33,944           37,91W0          37,9[10                         Capitalized Loan Tnstalh93e9ts
Marine Transport Co.                     25,000           25,000           25,000                             and Interest                         3,595,367        3,595,367        3,S95,367
Profit or Loss from Current
TOTAL ASSETS:                  8,956,478        9,910,255       12,1l16,626                                Year                                 _ 7087,981)    _26,59)          352,370
Accmulated Profit or Loss                   -         (   708,981)        ( 735,1110)
TOTAL LAABI1+ITI ASh EQUTITP        8,956,4+78       9,910,295       12,11)1h,626



ANNEX 4
Table 2
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Consolidated Profit and Loss Account
for the Fiscal Years 1969, 1970 and 1971
1969        1970        1971
- _ _ - _ _ _ _ _ _  - - - *      -
REVENUE:
Net Income from Trading Accounts       212,662   (464,893)   1,648,345
Income from Silos                      146,327    219,807       262,083
Export, Import Fees                     67,170      99,393      285,781
Miscellaneous Income and
Commissions and Fees                  55,904     95,967       114,643
Compensation of Export Loss by
Export Supporting Fund                   -      568,978           -
Total Revenue          482,063    519,252    2,310,852
EXPENSES:
Silo Expenses as per Table 3            86,664    123,578        129,603
Directors Allowances                       766         505           440
Salaries, Allowances, Wages             45,259     49,059        55,771
Share of Board in Pension Fund           5,214       5,421         6,299
Miscellaneous Expenses                  35,413      25,415        28,365
Grain Board Share of State
Organization Expenses                    -          -          22,724
Total Expenses         173,316    203,978        243,202
Net Profit before Depreciation
and Interest                         308,747    315,274    2,067,650
Depreciation and Interest            1,017,728    341,731       342,934
Net Profit                                 -          -       1,724,716
Levy for Development Budget                -          -      (1,372,338)
Net Loss or Profit Carried
To Balance Sheet                    (708,981)   (26,457)      352,378



ANNEX 4
Table 3
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
(m)
GRAM BOARD
SILO COST SCHEDULE YEAR ENDING FISCAL YA.4R 1971
Kut Silo   Mbsul       Erbil       Hilla       Basrah      Steel Silo  Concrete Silos  Total
Silo        Silo       Silo        Silo        Baghdad      Baghdad            1971
Salaries, allowances, wages            6,812       9/161       5,530       6;742      31822       5,208       14,083      79,358
Share of the board in social
pension fand                            590         929         526         587       2,992         528        1,326       7,478
Security stamps                          53         -           -            36          70           1           87         217
Carriage & transport: Exp. &
allowances                              -           189          51           7          83           7           37         377
Clothing expenses                       176         164         133         138       1,012        1145          273       2,041
Staff Insurance                           9          13          12          14          33          12           13         106
Stationary                              -             7           1        -           203         -             -           211
Printing & Advertising                   -            5           -         -            49         -             11          65
Post, telephone & telegraph              52         2145         75          49         270          25           42         758
Wfater & electricity                    933         780         297      1,169       8,892          574        2,118     U,763
Properties Insurance                    693         689         303         384      7,321          213          770     10,373
Civil defence                           -           -          -           -           -           -            -            -
Operation & nwintenance of                3        320            6        217         374         241           437      1,598
vehicles
Operations & maintenance of               5          39         _            77        747         -             161      1,029
machinery
Maintenance expense                     175          38         -            10         264         -         1,016         ,503
Maintenance of siding rails             -           313         331        235          771        -          1,991       3,614
Packing                                 -           -          -           -           -           -             220         220
Fumnigants materials                    -          _           _           _           794         -          3,250       4,044
Dockyard fees                           -          -           -           -           100         -             -           100
9undry expenses                         1.20        !97        136         106         398         111          220       1.688
Total before Depreciation:   9,621        13,4b9       7,404       9,771      56,195       7,065       26,05d    129,603
Depreciation                        31.337      32.113      24.256      21.803    188.343       10.239       26.809    334.900
Total Cost with Depreciation:   40,958        45,602      31,660      31,574    24b,538       17,304       52,867    464,503






LiA;






ANNEX 5
Page 1
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Projection of Future
Grain Production, Consumption and Marketable Quantity
Production Estimates
1.        In view of the physical, technical, and organizational problems
presently hampering the production of grain in Iraq (Annex 1) and considering
the time and effort required to solve such problems, it appears that the
future situation is likely to be as follows:
(a) The amount of land now under wheat and barley in the center
and south of Iraq will remain much the same, in line with the
recent policy adopted by Government, which encourages production
increases by intensive rather than by extensive farming. It
is possible, however, that some decline in the total land area
may occur if salinity and drainage problems are not solved.
In the north, on the other hand, an additonal 100,000 ha will
come under wheat production, since a state of peace now
exists between the Kurds and the Government and because
present cultural systems there may be changed.
(b) The application of technology will likely increase in the
agricultural sector, but agricultural production will continue
to be primarily traditional - climate, soil, and water will
remain highly important. Hence, no significant changes on a
large scale are foreseen; and
(c) The yields of both wheat and barley will increase in the
north mainly because of mechanization and improved cultural
practices, and in the center and south largely because of
wider scale use of Mexi-Pak with fertilizer.
It is therefore estimated that by 1980, the annual net production of wheat
will be about 1.4 million tons and of barley, about 1.1 million tons (Tables
1-2).
Population Consumption Estimates
2.        Population.  Because of the lack of reliable data, the population
and its rate of growth are debatable issues in Iraq. There have been three
population censuses in the country -- 1947, 1957, and 1965 -- but even



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Government officials and planners consider the last one to be incomplete
since a large proportion of the population in the north was not recorded
due to warfare between the Kurds and the Government. The World Bank Economic
Report estimates an average population growth rate of 3.3% per annum for
the country 1/, which appears realistic. 2/ There is no fertility control
program and serious efforts are being made by the Government to improve
health and sanitation conditions to reduce the mortality rate. Furthermore,
population growth rates in certain industrial-urban centers will be higher
than the national average - the populations of Baghdad and Basra are
expected to grow at rates of 5.5% and 3.9% per annum, respectively. It
therefore appears that the total population of Iraq by 1980 will be 13 million.
A detailed breakdown of estimates is presented in Table 3.
3.        Over a long period of time, Iraq has evolved into an urban-oriented
society so that in 1969, about 57% of the total population lived in urban
areas. This trend is expected to continue in the future, but at a much
slower rate because the Government is attempting to revitalize rural areas
by introducing land reform and other economic measures. It is therefore
expected that by 1980, on average, about 58% and 42% of the total population-
will be in urban and rural areas, respectively (detailed breakdown by
provinces, of these estimates for 1980 is given in Table 4). It should be
noted here that in the case of the provinces of Baghdad and Basra, about 80%
and 65%, respectively, of the total population will be in urban areas. Baghdad
has, historically, been the most important urban center in Iraq, while Basra,
as a result of the Government's efforts in industrial development there (the
establishment of paper and fertilizer plants), appears likely to become the
second most important.
Consumption
4.        In Iraq, wheat bread is the major staple for rich and poor alike.
However, in the case of the rich and middle class population, the income
effect on wheat conslumption is not as significant as in the case of the
lower income group and the rural population. Based on actual family budget
surveys in Baghdad Province, it is estimated that the income elasticity of
demand for wheat in the upper and middle income group is about 0.06,
while, for the lower income group, it is about 0.980. 3/
1/   "The average annual population growth is estimated to have reached 3.3%
and is more likely to increase than to decrease in the next decade given
some 50% of the population in the lower age groups -- This fact, and
confidence in the economy's long-term growth prospects, underlies the
present lack of official concern and absence of a government-sponsored
family planning program". - Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Iraq, August 1971, IBRD Report No. EMA-35-a, Washington, D.C.
2/   It should be noted, however, that the UN Population Center in New York and
the International Office of Population of the U.S. Bureau of Census assume
somewhat higher population rates of growth (3.6% and 3.4%, respectively).
3/   Family Budget Surveys of Baghdad, Draft Report, Central Statistical
Office, Government of Iraq, Baghdad, 1969.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
5.        As a result of lack of income, barley is presently normally
substituted for wheat in rural areas, particularly in the south. However,
wheat is generally considered by all to be the more desirable grain, and
consumers readily switch to it with any increase in income. The present
National Plan aims at increasing the per capita income by about 20Z, and,
since national economic development is directed primarily at increasing the
income of the lower income group and of the rural population, it is expected
that by 1980, the consumption of wheat by these groups will increase from
the present 122 kg per person to 130 kg per person. In the upper income
group, as income increases, consumption of wheat will slightly decline,
dropping from the current 130 kg per person to 128 per person. Increased
consumption of wheat, coupled with the consumption of other kinds of food,
is expected to increase the total calorie intake for the lower income
group and for the rural population from the present 2,100 per day to
about 2,350 per day.
6.        Barley will, in the future, be used primarily for feed purposes.
The livestock industry in Iraq is gaining more and more importance, both
in the private and public sectors, and serious efforts are being made to
improve the feed industry to meet the increasing demands of livestock
producers. Although human consumption of barley is expected to decline from
95 kg to 90 kg per person, consumption for commercial purposes will increase
from the present average of 80 kg per person to about 95 kg per person.
Consumption estimates for 1980 for wheat and barley (broken down between
rural and urban areas) are presented in Tables 5-6.
Marketable Quantity
7.        Marketable quantity is defined here as the balance left after
deducting on-farm consumption (rural human consumption plus seed requirements,
plus in-field losses) from the total production and it is this amount that
will be available to meet urban consumption. It appears that by 1980 Iraq
will need to import about 750,000 tons of wheat and barley, Detailed break-
downs of import estimates are presented in Tables 7-8. In this context, it
should be noted that, although Iraq would be a net importer of barley, it
would probably export some of its fine quality black barley to the Middle
East and European countries, where it is in great demand as feed for race-
horses.
8.        Two alternative sets of projections of marketable quantity in 1980
have been made, both for wheat and barley for sensitivity testing of the grain
storage model (Annex 7). The underlying assumptions for wheat are that:
(a) 25% of the land area in the center and south of Iraq
would be planted under Mexi-Pak; and
(b) 30% of the land area in the center and south would be
planted under Mexi-Pak.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
The per capita consumption in both situations would be 128 kg for rural
areas and 125 kg for urban areas. Based on these, it appears that Iraq
would import in situation (a) about 427,000 tons and in situation
(b), 370,000 tons.
9.        The underlying assumptions for barley are that:
(a) The yield in the center and south would be 980 kg per ha
and 870 kg per ha, respectively; and
(b) The yield in the center would be 1,000 kg per ha, while
in the south it would be 900 kg per ha.
The per capita consumption in both situations is assumed to be 80 kg for rural
areas and 85 kg for urban areas. Based on these, it appears that Iraq would
import in situation (a) about 100,000 tons of barley and in situation
(b) about 84,000 tons.
10.       The latter projections for both wheat and barley are somewhat
unrealistic, since they assume that existing physical and techno-organizational
problems will be overcome in a short period of time. The estimates given
in Tables 7 and 8, however, are of a more realistic nature since they
reflect Iraq's actual capabilities, from a short-term point of view
to implement the various improvements necessary to overcome some of the
basic problems at present faced in agricultural production.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Wheat Production - 1980
Production Estimates
Area                  Yield         Gross     Losses      Net
(in '000 ha)            (kg/ha)        Prod.    (in '000   Prod.
Without  With      Without  With   (in '000       tons)  (in '000
/1
Muhafedha   Total  Mexipak Mexipak-- Mexipak Mexipak    tons)         (5%)       tons)
NORTH
Ninevah-
Dhok         860      860     -         550      -         473       23        450
Sulaimanya     80       80     -          "        -         44        2          42
Arbil         200      200     -                   -        110        5         105
Kirkuk        360      360     -          "        -        198       10         188
Subtotal  1,500   1,500      -         550      -         825       40        785
CENTER
Diala         130      100      30       800    2,180       145        8         137
Anbar           15      15      -         "        "          12       1          11
Baghdad         80      70      10        "        "         78        4          74
Waset          136     106      30        "        "  .     150        8         142
Babylon        65       49      16        "                  74        4          70
Kerbela          4       4     -                              3       -            3
Subtotal    430      344     86        800    2,180       462       25        437
SOUTH
Qadissiya-
Multhana       70      55      15       800    2,180        77        5          72
Maysan          30      25       5        "                  31        2          29
Thi-Qar         50      40      10        "                  54        3          51
Basrah           2       2     -                   "          2       -            2
Subtotal    152      122     30        800    2,180       164       10        154
GRAND TOTAL 2,082   1,966    116          -        -      1,451       75      1,376
/1   Note:  With Mexipak - Land Improvement + Improved Seed, Fertilization,
Extension Service, etc.



ANNEX 5
Table 2
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Barley Production - 1980
Gross     Loss       Net
Area                Products   in the   Products
(in      Yield      (in 1000    Field   (in '000
Muhafadha         '000 ha)   (kg/ha)        tons)      (5%)       tons)
NORTH
Ninevah-Dhok             295       870         257        14         243
Sulaimaniya               20                    17         -          17
Arbil                     i5        "           65         3          62
Kirkuk                   100        "           87         4          83
Subtotal           490        870         426        21         405
CENTER
Diala                    195       980         191        10         181
Anbar                     10        "           10         -          10
Baghdad                   50        "           49         2          47
Waset                    185         "         181         9         172
Babylon                   95                    93         5          88
Kerbela                    5                     5         -           5
Subtotal           540        980         529        26         503
SOUTH
Qadissiya-
Muthana                   90       870          78         4          74
Maysan                    42        "           37         2          35
Thi-Qar                   88        "           77         4          73
Basra                               _
Subtotal           220        870         192        10         182
GRAND TOTAL      1,250         -        1,147        57       1,090



AMNEX 5
LRAQ                      Table 3
GRALI STORAGE PROJEaT
Population Estimates, 1970 and 1980
1970 Total       l9B0 Total        Rate of Growth in
1hihafadha       (in '000)        (in '000)             Percentage
NO,t'Z,i
Ninevah-Dhok        9b0            1,185                   1.9
Sulaimani.ya        472              653                   3.3
Arbil               419              538                   2.5
Kirkuk              534              674                   2.4
Diala               445              554                   2.2
Anbar               345              434                   2.3
Baghdad           2,689            4,600                   5.5
'-.aset             360              423                   1.6
3abylon             517              683                   2.8
Kerbela             448              620                   3.3
SOUTH
Qadissiya-Muthana  556               530                   0.4
iahysan            354              370                   0.5
Thi-Qar             524              576                   0.9
Sasra               797            1,170                   3.9
TOTAL     9,4,40         1144h0



AINYEX 5
Table 4
II  A(
3CAJI STO ,aEZ P.ROJECT'
-tural and Urban Population Estimates for 1960
Population
Rural                 Urban
1viihafadha            1980                  1980             1980
Total                 Total            Total
('000)                ('000)   ,       (tooo)
linevah-Dhok          628          53         557     47     1,185
Sulairnani-a   -       438         67         215     33        653
Arbil                  328          61        210      39       538
Kirkuk                 337         50         337     50        674
(i 3tTT't
Tiala                  360         65         194     35        554
Anbar                  256         59         178     41        434
3aghdad                920         20       3,680     80      4,600
Wvaset                 254         60         169     40        423
Babylon                410         60         273     40        683
Ierbela                155         25         465     75        620
SOUTH
Qadissiya-Multhana    348          60         232     40        580
t2Sa,san               222         60         145     40        370
Thi-Qar                374         65         202     35        576
Basra                  410         35         760     65      1,170
TOTAL      5,40                   7062D            13, 060



ANNEX 5
Table 5
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Rural Consumption - Wheat and Barley - 1980
Consumption in Cons
Rural             Wheat-                     Barley-
Popu-    Human                          Human
lation  (130 kg    Seed       Total   (90 ag    Seed        Total
(in       per    (in '000      in       per      (in '000    in
Muhafadha       '000)   Capita        tons)      tons  Capita        tons)    tons
NORTH
Ninevah-Dhok      628    81,640       86      167,640   56,520       27     83,520
Sulaimaniya       438    56,940        8      64,940   39,420         2     41,420
Arbil             328    42,640       20      62,640   29,520         7     36,520
Kirkuk            337    43,810       36       79,810   30,330        9     39,330
Subtotal     1,731   225,030       150     375,030  155,790        45    200,790
CENTER
Diala             360    46,800       12       58,800   32,400       18     50,400
Anbar             256    33,280        3       36,280   23,040        1     24,040
Baghdad           920   119,600        8     127,600   82,800         5     87,800
Waset             254    33,020       13      46,020   22,860        12     34,860
Babylon           410    53,300        5      58,300   36,900         9     45,900
Kerbela           155    20,150        1       21,150   13,950        -     13,950
Subtotal     2,355   306,150        42     348,150  211,950        45    256,950
SOUTH
Qadissiya-
Muthana           348    45,240        7       52,240   31,320        8     39,320
Maysan            222    28,860        3       31,860   19,980        4     23,980
Thi-Qar           374    48,620        5       53,620   33,660        8     41,660
Basra             410    53,300        -       53,300   36,900        -     36,900
Subtotal      1,354   176,020       15     191,020  121,860        20    141,860
GRAND TOTAL    5,440   707,200       207     914,200  489,600       110    599,600
/1   Wheat:  Human Consumption   130 kg per person.  Seed - 2.5 tons per 25 ha.
/2   Barley:  Human Consumption   90 kg per person.  Seed - 2.3 tons per 25 ha.



ANNEX 5
Table 6
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Urban Consumption - Wheat and Barley - 1980
Consumption in Tons
Wheat                    Barley
Urban                           (per capita consumption
Population  (per capita con-        mainly for commercial
Muhafadha          (in '000)    sumption - 128 kg)        use - 95 kg)
NORTH
Ninevah-Dhok             557               71,296                  52,915
Sulaimaniya              215              27,520                   20,425
Arbil                    210              26,880                   19,950
Kirkuk                   337              43,136                   32,015
Subtotal          1,319            168,832                   125,305
CENTER
Diala                    194             24,832                    18,430
Anbar                    178             22,784                    16,910
Baghdad                3,680            471,040                   349,600
Waset                    169             21,632                    16,055
Babylon                  273             34,944                    25,935
Kerbela                  465             59,520                    44,175
Subtotal          4,959            634,752                   471,105
SOUTH
Qadissiya-Muthana        232             29,696                    22,040
Maysan                   148             18,944                    14,060
Thi-Qar                  202             25,856                    19,190
Basra                    760             97,280                    72,200
Subtotal          1,342            171,776                   127,490
TOTAL             7,620            975,360                   723,900



ANNEX 5
Table 7.
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Wheat - Marketable Quantity - 1980
1              2           3               4            5
Net         On-Farm      Marketable         Urban     Balance
Production   Consumption    Quantity        Consumption  (in '000
(in '000       (in '000    ('000 tons)a    (in '000         tons)
Muhafadha         tons)          tons)        (1) - (2)        tons)      (3) - (41
NORTH
Ninevah-Dhok        450            168           282             71          211
Sulaimaniya          42             65           -23             28          -51
Arbil               105             63            42             27           15
Kirkuk              188             80           108             43           655-
Subtotal       785            376           409            169          240
CENTER
Diala               137             59            78             25           53
Anbar                11             36           -25             23          -48
Baghdad              74            128           -54            471         -525
Waset               142             46            96             22           74
Babylon              70             58            12             35          -23
Kerbela               3             21           -18             60          -78
Subtotal       437            348            89            636         -547
SOUJTH
Qads siya-
Muthana             72             52            20             30          -10
Maysan               29             32            -3              19         -22
Thi-Qar              51             54            -3             26          -29
Basra                 2             53           -51             97         -148
Subtotal       154            191           -37            172         -209
GRAND TOTAL    1 376             915           461            977         -516
Import Requirements - 516,000 Tons
/a    The total shown in this column, 461,000 tons, is tlte net marketable
quantity derived by subtracting deficit Muhafadhas from surplus
Muhafadha. The amount actually to be marketed by the farmers is
the total of the surplus Muhafadhas or 638,000 tons.



ANNEX 5
Table 8
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Barley - Marketable Quantity - 1980
1              2            3               4             5
Net          On-Farm      Marketable         Urban      Balance
Production   Consumption    Quantity         Consumption  (in '000
(in '000       (in '000      ('000 tons)/a  (in '000         tons)
Muhafadha         tons)           tons)        (1) - (2)        tons)       (3) - (4)
NORTH
Ninevah-Dhok        243             84           159             53            106
Sulaimaniya           17            41           -24             20           -44
Arbil                62             37            25             20              5
K.irkuk              83             39            44             32             12
Subtotal       405           201           204             125            79
CENTER
Diala                181            50           131             18            113
Anbar                 10            24           -14              17          -31
Baghdad              47             88           -41            350          -391
Waset                172            35           137             16            121
Babylon               88            46            42             26             16
Kerbela                5            14            -9             44           -53
Subtotal       503           257           246             471          -225
SOUTH
Qadissiya-
Muthana             74             39            35             22             13
Maysan                35            24            11             14            -3
Thi-Qar               73            42            31             19             12
Basra                -              37           -37             73          -110
Subtotal        182           142            40             128           -88
GRAND TOTAL    1,090            600            490            724          -234
Izjort Requirements   234,000 Tons
/a    The total shown in this column, 490,000 tons, is the net marketable
quantitv derived by subtracting negative Muhafadhas from surplus
.Muhafadhas. The amount to be actually marketed by farmers is
the total of surplus Muhafadhas or 615,000 tons.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Future Grain Marketing in Iraq
Government's Future Role
1.        Government has realized that unless existing drawbacks in the
organization of grain marketing are corrected (Annex 2), it will be
extremely difficult for the country to achieve its stated objectives -
self-sufficiency in agricultural production and a better distribution of
income. It has also realized that this cannot be achieved merely by enact-
ment of legislative measures, but will require its active direct participation
so that it can act as a balancing force between producers, consumers, and
private traders. This enlarged role for Government seems feasible provided_
components of the system discussed below are also improved.
2.        Cooperative Societies.  Government should be able to organize pro-
ductive cooperative societies at a somewhat faster rate than in the past,
since it has been able to overcome some of the technical and administrative
problems that caused earlier delays (Annex 1). It is expected that by 1976
about 30% and by 1980, about 40% of the total grain production in the country
will originate from such societies and, since they are controlled by Govern-
ment, it will be much easier for Government to procure marketable grain from
them and penetrate the grain marketing system. Moreover, the development of
such societies will limit the number of private traders that can become
tenant-traders by renting land from small landowners on a share-crop basis.
This will reduce the supply of grain presently available to them for market-
ing, which will automatically undermine the powerful position they now enjoy.
3.        State-owned Flour Mills.  By 1975 the existing capacity of the
state-owned flour mills will likely be increased, and there are plans to
increase it even further, since the Government has realized that it must
have the necessary processing capacity in order to control the grain trade
effectively. With such increases, marketing of the increased share of the
grain crop procured by the Grain Board will not present any problems.
4.        Modern Storage Facilities.  Another constraint in grain marketing
has been the lack of adequate storage capacity available to the Grain Board
(Annex 7). If such shortages continue to exist, Government will still be
unable to procure a higher share of domestic production. Government has
fully realized the importance of such facilities and has already taken
action, but it is estimated that, even with the additional capacity planned,



ANNEX 6
Page 2
there will be a deficit of 560,000 tons by 1980 (Annex 7). The proposed
project, which would provide the required storage capacity, would therefore
make a valuable contribution in helping Government to fulfill its plan of
revitalizing and reorganizing the agriculture marketing system.
5.        Development of a Positive Agricultural Price Policy.  In the
past, agricultural prices in Iraq have been formulated with the prime
objective of safeguarding the interests of the consumers, usually relegating
the interests of the producers to second place. Government has now realized,
however, that the relatively low level at which agricultural prices have
been held provides no incentive for a steady increase in agricultural
production. It has, therefore, decided to introduce a positive price policy
with the obJectives of (a) accelerating the growth of agricultural output
as a whole, (b) securing adequate increases in the market supply of food
crops in the country where a large part of output at present is retained
by the farmers for their own consumption, and (c) balancing the interest of
consumers and producers. Government is commissioning a study to work out
the details of such a policy and provide guidelines for its implementation
(the objective and scope-of the study to be undertaken are discussed in -
Annex 12).
6.        The development of such a positive agricultural price policy would
accelerate the diffusion of innovations, the absorption of new inputs, the
utilization of idle capacity, and even institutional adjustments. While
it should be noted that a positive agricultural price policy will not by it-
self revolutionize the growth of the agricultural sector and grain marketing
in Iraq, it is necessary or techno-organizational efforts may be retarded.
7.        Establishment of Better Marketing and Intelligence Service.  Another
element associated with the organization and efficiency of the market is the
level of information that is available throughout the system. In order for
markets to function efficiently, a fairly high level system of market informa-
tion or market intelligence must be generated. Observation would suggest
that information regarding production of grain in the domestic market has
been inadequate and that there have been considerable problems associated
with determining the necessary levels of imports and the requirements of
stocking activities to provide adequate flows to consumption channels. With-
out adequate knowledge on the part of producers, grain traders, and planners,
it is extremely difficult to operate an efficient marketing system. A new
market information system will therefore be introduced, based on the findings
of the proposed price study (para 5).
The Grain Board's Expected Share in the Future Grain Market
8.        It appears likely that Government will be able to increase its
share in the total grain marketing system from the present low of about 10%
to about 33% by 1980. This, in terms of the nation's milling capacity, would
mean that the Grain Board would be able to supply 100% of the state-owned



ANNEX 6
Page 3
flour mills' capacity plus about 10% of the private mills by 1980. It is
estimated that by 1980, the state-owned flour mills will constitute about
25% of the nation's total milling capacity. Thus by 1980, about 35% of the
nation's total milling capacity would be supplied by the Grain Board.
9.        In addition, by 1976, the Grain Board will be able to maintain a
two month supply of grain all year around as a reserve. This will further
discourage speculators and grain-holders now operating in the marketing
system and will also have a positive psychological effect on consumers, who
will be assured that an even grain supply will be available, thus reducing
the chances of panic and social unrest. Such riots have occurred in the
past (as recent as 1971) and have been very disruptive to the economy.
The Future Role of Private Traders
10.       In the future, private traders will continue to play a significant
role, even though their present widesoread power will be curtailed and con-
trolled. Government should provide these traders with market intelligence
and other services such as modern storage facilities and such, with the aim
of guiding them rather than trying to eliminate them.






ANNEX 7
Page 1
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Determination of Grain Storage Requirements of the Grain Board
1.        The Grain Board's present grain storage and distribution system
must be expanded to fulfill the following objectives:
(a)  provide for the efficient storage and distribution of grain
imports;
(b) provide efficient storage and handling facilities so that
grain storage and handling services can be offered to farming
cooperatives;
(c) provide sufficient grain storage and handling capacity to
allow the Grain Board to become a more active participant
in the domestic grain trade;
(d) provide sufficient grain storage capacity throughout Iraq
for storage of reserve stocks to meet emergency consumer
demands for grain.
Imports
2.        Imports to Iraq averaged about 200,000 tons over the period
1965-70, but due to a poor harvest in 1971 the imports that year were far
greater (1.4 million tons). Because of the lack of handling and storage
capacity, the Grain Board, in receiving, storing, and discharging this
large amount, incurred high costs in ship demurrage fees and suffered losses
from improvised handling and open storage (Annex 3). Taking into account
advances in agriculture in Iraq and population increases, the future pro-
duction of wheat and barley will fall short of the consumption needs by
about 750,000 tons annually by 1980 (Annex 5). An annual import of at least
750,000 tons is projected for the period beyond 1980 and thus the level was
used for the model input. To efficiently handle 750,000 tons of imports, the
Grain Board will need to expand considerably its ship discharging capability
in the ports of Basrah and Um Qasr, as well as its internal storage and hand-
ling capacity.
Increased Grain Board Domestic Purchases
3.        The Grain Board's purchases of domestically produced grain has
averaged 100,000 tons over the past four years, which represents less than
10% of the total estimated domestic grain production during that period.
As outlined in Arnex 6, the Grain Board must increase its purchases of



ANNEX 7
Page 2
domestically produced grain in order to reduce the oligopolistic nature of
the private grain merchant system and bring about a rationalization of both
consumer and producer prices. The share of the domestic grain production
that the Grain Board must procure in order to realize these objectives is
estimated at about 33% equivalent to 413,000 tons annually annually by 1980.
annual
Storage and Handling Services for Farming Cooperatives
4.        The present farm-level grain storage and handling facilities are
primarily small underground caches. However, warehouses are currently
being constructed on cooperatives to provide short-term bagged storage
(from period of harvest until before the first rainfall). The cooperatives,
however, will need long-term bulk storage facilities for the quantity of
grain production they do not sell, which represents their consumption needs
and seed stocks. The conservative estimate of the quantities of grain for
which the cooperatives will need long-term storage and handling facilities
is about 303,000 tons annually by 1980.
Reserve Grain Stocks      -
5.        Although charged with the responsibility of maintaining sufficient
grain stocks to meet emergency consumer demands, the Grain Board in the past
has not had enough storage located throughout the country to maintain ade-
quate supplies. As recent as 1971, there were disturbances in several urban
areas due to peoples' fear of insufficient food stocks because of a poor
domestic harvest. Imports of wheat and barley usually originate in Australia
or Canada, and there is an import supply lead-time of about three months,
i.e., about three months are required from the time of import ordering until
actual arrival in Iraq. Therefore, as a guide for future planning, Grain
Board officials are striving to maintain reserve stocks equivalent to about
two months' internal consumption. This is considered appropriate since
officials estimate that, under most circumstances, they would have a month's
advance notice of an unusually poor harvest or dangerously low private stocks.
Two months' consumption would be equivalent to about 483,000 tons by 1980.
Storage and Distribution System Dynamics
6.        Several other factors also influence the capacity and configuration
of the Grain Board's storage and distribution system. The domestic grain
harvest in Iraq occurs in a relatively short period. For a given region,
this period lasts a maximum of six weeks. Although there are some variances
among regions, the entire harvest period in Iraq does not extend beyond a
three-month period - roughly the entire harvest period falls between April 15
and July 15. Therefore, it is during and immediately following this period
that the greatest demand for storage capacity occurs. Cooperatives and
farmers sell surplus quantities at the time of harvest because they have no
long-term storage facilities and, because they lack their own facilities,
they must arrange for storage for their own needs and for seed stocks. Im-
ports to meet the deficit between domestic production and consumption should
therefore be scheduled to arrive in Iraq during the nine-month "non-harvest"
period in order to minimize the nationwide requirements for storage.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
7.        Various modes of transportation are available for transport of
grain in Iraq. In ascending order of cost, they are water (barge), rail
(general purpose boxcars), and truck (usually 10-ton, double-rear axle).
There is an overall shortage of transportation in Iraq and both trucks and
rolling stocks are being imported. Therefore, there is implicit penalty
for severe imbalance of transportation usage by mode between the harvest
period and non-harvest period.
Grain Storage Model
8.        In order to define the storage system configuration needed to
fulfill the above requirements, the grain storage system of the Grain Board
was modelled. The basic model represents the flow of wheat and barley
through the Grain Board system from the point of production to the point
of consumption, together with any imports or exports which might occur.
Production and consumption are assumed to be taken to and from a silo by
truck, and inter-silo movements can take place by truck, rail, or water,
but the particular mode used between any two points is predetermined on
the basis of relative costs of the available types.
9.        Two time periods are considered:  harvest season and non-harvest
season. Consumption is assumed to take place steadily throughout the year
and production is assumed to be brought into the silo system at a steady
rate during the harvest season. Imports or exports are equal to the
difference between production and consumption. In either situation,
movements are also at a steady rate, imports taking place in the non-harvest
season and exports during the harvest.
10.       The country is represented as zones.  Production and consumption
are defined for each and the costs of inter-silo movements and collections
and deliveries between all pairs of zones are also defined. Each zone is
allowed either one or no silo. Where a silo already exists, then it is
automatically included and it is possible to define an amount by which it
can be extended. There is a cost associated with extending an existing
silo but its current size is included at zero cost. If a new silo is to be
built, it must be between defined minimum and maximum sizes. There is a
fixed cost associated with the minimum size and a variable cost with unit
increases above this size up to the maximum allowed.
11.       The first analysis of the Grain Board's future storage requirements
through modelling was performed by the feasibility study consultants. Their
model consisted of a mixed integer linear program. Integer variables were
used for defining whether a zone needed a silo or not. If a variable in a
particular zone resulted in value zero, that zone did not need a silo; if
it had the value one, a silo was needed. The objective function which was
to be minimized was the sum of all transport, handling, and silo costs. The
handling costs were, in fact, included as part of the input for transport costs.
The majority of the constraints are input-output grain balance rows. There
was one constraint for each zone and each type of grain. The input-output



ANNEX 7
Page 4
grain balances were devised for the producers in the harvest season and for
the consumers and the silos in both seasons. There were three inequalities
for each zone which determine whether or not a silo would exist and its size.
One acted as a capacity constraint on the stock in the silo at the end of the
harvest, another limited the amount of additional capacity above the minimum
allowable or existing silo size, and the third was the inequality which
triggered the zero-one variable.
12.       Although mixed integer linear programming is a very powerful tool
for determining not only location but also sizes of grain storage facilities,
the original formulation contained several conceptual errors and was run
with outdated data. Several of the shortcomings of original formulation
were serious enought to have a major impact on the recommended solution
of silo sizes and locations. First, the minimum cost of a silo was
understated, which had the effect of overstating the number of locations
requiring silos. Second, the harvest period was assumed to be six months
rather than the more realistic assumption of three months; this had the
effect of underestimating the magnitude of the peak storage requirement
that occurs during the harvest period. Furthermore, because the consultants-
overestimated domestic production and underestimated population growth, they
projected that Iraq would be in a balanced position with respect to domestic
production and consumption. On the other hand, the mission projected that
Iraq would be in an importing situation for the foreseeable future. The
impact of substantial reliance on imports (which enter the country at the
southern port of Basrah) has the effect of requiring a relatively larger
portion of the storage capacity in the center of the country vis-a-vis con-
centration of storage facilities in the northern production area.
13.       Because of the above-mentioned shortcomings in the consultants'
model and recommended solution, further analysis was performed to determine
the additional storage facilities needed to supplement the Grain Board's
present facilities in order to provide a complete storage and distribution
system that would meet the expected storage requirements and, at the same
time, minimize transport, handling, and storage costs. First, because the
shortcomings had the effect of recommending too many silo locations, mathe-
matical heuristics were used to evaluate the intra region and outer region
grain transport costs versus fixed silo costs to determine the more accurate
number of silo locations. As a result of these calculations, the number of
new silo locations was reduced from 13 to 8. Second, a linear programming
model was formulated to determine the silo sizes needed at these locations,
the expansion of silo capacity at the present silo sites, and the necessary
grain movements through the expanded system. The model determined the silo
sizes and movements which provided for storage and distribution of the
expected grain volumes and at the same time minimized the following costs:
(a) inter-silo transport and handling;
(b) capital depreciation costs of silos; and
(c) penalty for an imbalance in transport requirements on any one
mode of transport between different seasons of the year.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
Model Formulation
14.       Of the three possible modes of transport, only one was allowed
between any two silos. The non-allowed modes were indicated in the input
data by having a zero value. The model covers two seasons of the year --
the three-month harvest season and the nine-month non-harvest season. The
basic formulation is as follows:
Subscripts
J, k      -    silo locations
1      -    type of grain (barley, wheat)
Variables
MR kl   =    quantity of grain type 1 to be moved
from j to k in harvest season
MNjkl     -    quantity of grain type 1 to be moved
from j to k in non-harvest season
VC3    additional capacity of silo
GSji      a    stock of grain type 1 at silo j at end
of harvest season
IT        -    truck transport imbalance between seasons
IR             rail transport imbalance between seasons
1W        -    water transport imbalance between seasons



ANNEX 7
Page 6
Constants
QP 1      -    production of grain type 1 at j
Q11       -    imports of grain type 1
QH 1      X    consumption of grain type 1 at j in
harvest season
QNt1      -    consumption of grain type 1 at j in
non-harvest season
MIN       -    minimum size of silo at j ('000 tons)
MAXj      ,    maximum additional size of silo at j ('000 tons)
CIH       -    handling cost for each inter-silo
movement                             (ID perton)
CTjk      .    cost of truck transport from j to k (ID per ton)
CRik      ,    cost of rail transport from j to k (ID per ton)
jk       -    cost of water transport from j to k (ID per ton)
CPT       -    penalty factor for imbalance in truck
transport (% surcharge)
CPR       -    Penalty factor for imbalance in rail
transport (% surcharge)
CPW       -    penalty factor for imbalance in water
transport (Z surcharge)
CSj       -    cost of additional silo capacity



ANNEX 7
Page 7
objective Function
Minimizes:
i~2;   ((7-/g  OC2SjC         # CK)>'l4
j  k~~~+c            Cuj CH)MAy
t ff E E ( cr,  + c2,k+1   t  C)FJK
+ C TjLF  * Cf                    T + ceTTJ +V-,  CSjVCJ
Constraints       -
QPX~~~                   2~   H,t- -t          2)D,~S  it   GS,JQ- 0   V. V)1
C7~ ~ ~~~~~~~~I SJ,i +              Jfl         I/oQ~( s      ai O9 j=3
eQQI  ANIJj}j                  GJc 'K
tCj~~ f           .5- MpY     OA-             )   ,
J4<  A'1/vk   -341/Q,,2,    w - A1/J:O -I1- 
C-7  M7 1AV-}->y    LY.
 1 fI c-z> (3A4/-;k - A/1) vj D) - I 17-
L)  IC S   C ?, IC ( M rlJ Q  _ 3 //1 ,      T)   S 
V c,i       MAi X.)' t3,4 H;k    MJ 
ff Ic  Jfi C T,,    3 A 1u /-3 )-     , 
Jc~ 
,c~~~~~~-/3          



ANNEX 7
Page 8
Model Equation Description
15.       Objective Function.  The first and second lines are the transport
and handling costs for the harvest and non-harvest movements, respectively.
Note that, as described in paragraph 14, only one of CT, CR, CW is non-zero
for a given combination of j and k. The three terms on the third line
are the cost penalties for transport imbalance between the seasons for
truck, rail, and water transport, respectively. The cost penalties are
in terms of a percentage surcharge applied to the transport imbalances (para
18). The last line is the sum of the costs of additional silo capacity above
the minimum available size at each silo. Thus, the cost of capacity at each
location up to the minimum size is considered to be zero.
16.       Constraints.  The first line represents the balance equation for
each type of grain at each silo during the harvest season. The balance
equation states that production less harvest season consumption in the area,
plus all grain movements to the silo, less all grain movements out of the silo,
equals the stock of grain remaining at the location at the end of the harvest.-
Similarly, the second line is the balance equation for each silo (except for
Basrah, which has the index value j = 33) in the non-harvest season. Thus,
the stock of grain available at the end of the harvest, incremented by all
movements into the silo during the non-harvest season, must equal all move-
ments out of the silo, plus the consumption in the area during the non-harvest
season. The third line is the non-harvest balance equation for Basrah. This
is identical with the others except that the inputs to the silo are increased
by the imported quantities. Basically, the balance equations state that the
silos start and finish the year empty and the peak capacity requirement at
each location is represented by the sum of the stocks of each grain at the
end of the harvest (i.e. GS.1 + GS. ).
jl 2
17.       The next two inequalities exist for each silo location.  Their
purpose is to prevent the silo capacity going above the available size
and to determine the amount of extra capacity required (if any) above
the available size. Thus, if the capacity determined by the balance
equations (GS.l + GSj2) is less than or equal to the available size, the
additional capacity is zero and the second inequality is redundant. If
the capacity is above the minimum size, the first inequality determines
the additional amount required and the second inequality then ensures that
this is less than the maximum allowable extension.
18.       The last six lines are concerned with determining the transport
imbalance between the seasons (IT, IR, or IW expressed in financial terms).
There is a pair for each mode of transport. The reason that there is a
pair is that the imbalance must always be expressed in positive terms.
Thus, one inequality is always redundant. Note the multiplying factor
of 3 is applied to the movement during the harvest season; this is
because the harvest season is three months long and the non-harvest nine
months. Thus, when multiplied by three, the transportation usage during
the harvest season is on the same basis as during the non-harvest season.
The transport imbalance is defined as the difference, if any, in transporta-
tion usage between the adjusted harvest season and the non-harvest season.



ANNEX 7
Page 9
Also, when transport is not allowed by a particular mode, the relevant
value is zero and, hence, that term does not exist in the summation.
19.       Model Input.  The basic inputs for the silo were the unit transporta-
tion costs, existing silo capacities, projection of production and consumption
by region, and level of projected imports. The unit transportation rates used
were those currently prevailing in Iraq for the various modes. The existing
storage capacity included the capacity of the silos presently built or under
construction (263 000 tons), plus all warehouse storage capacity owned by the
Grain Board (78,000 tons), plus the storage capacity of the Government mills
27,000 tons) for a total of 368,000 tons. Even though this total capacity
might not always be available to the Grain Board for the storage of barley
and wheat (in particular, the warehouses that are primarily used for storage
of bagged rice), it was felt that all potential storage that could be used
to absorb the peak storage level during the harvest period should be taken
into consideration. The production and consumption estimates were those
derived from the projections given in Annex 5.
20.       Model Results- Five computer runs of the modei were made under
various costs for seasonal transoortation imbalances and for the alternate
projection of grain production and imports. The model solutions did not
vary a great deal under the various assumptions, with the exception of the
run incornorating the assumption of increased domestic production, especially
in the center of the country. Since the center is the major consumption area
anyway, the solution produced by this run indicated large storage capacity
required in the center and reduced inter-silo movements. The solution
selected was produced by the run, incorporating the most likely projection
of domestic production of wheat and barley. This solution varied from that
produced by the consultants' model recommending more storage in the center
rather than in the north of the country, reflecting an increased reliance on
imports coming from the port of Basrah in the south and being transported to
the center for consumption. The results indicating the additional silo
capacity required by 1980 can be seen in Table 1.



ANNEX 7
Page 10
21.       The storage requirements of the Grain Board can be summarized as
follows:
1980
('000 tons)
Beginning Inventory
(2 months' consumption)                            483
Inflows
Domestic Purchases
(33% of marketable surplus)                        413
Service Storage Stocks                               303
(25% of net production less marketable
surplus)            Total Inflow                  1199
Outflows
Deliveries During Harvest
(3 months' of Grain Board
annual supply)                                     (291)
Total Harvest Storage Requirement                 908
Um Qasr Surge Capacity                          20
Total Storage Capacity Required                   928
Less Present Storage Caoacity                     368
Required Storage Capacity                              560
Required Storage Capacity to be
provided by:
Terminal Silos (11)                               468
Gathering-Type Silos (3)                           36
Extensions to Existing Silos (4)                   36
Um Qasr Import Silo                                20
Total                        560



1UMEX 7
ZLAQ                              Table 1
-LAIfN STORAGE PRCJ&CT
Required Stora-e Cacacity
C000' tons)
Total    Existing or Under Construction                              ._- _                       _
Capacity                                                                      Gathering  Terminal
Required                                           Storage         Silo          Type       Type
Location       by 1980        Silo      Warehouse       Mill       Deficit      Extension       Silos      Silos       Total
NORTH       Mosul              67           31          16           20            _-                                     -
Shikhan            30            -           -            -          30             _             -         30         30
Sinjar            20             -           _                        20                          _          20         20
Rabeya            10            10           _            _            -            _             _           _          _
Shirgat           41             -           _            _           41            _             _          40         4o
Sulaimaniya       35           10            -            _           25            -             -                     25
Erbil             32            16           8            -            8            8             -           -          8
Kirkuk            10           10            -                         -            -
Tuz               50             -           -            -           5C            -             -         50          50
Duhok             12             -           -            -           12            -           12            -        12
Telefar           60             -           -            -           60                          -          60 
CENTER     Baquba             28             -           -            -           2d                                     20        28
K0hanakin         20             -           -            -           20            -             _          20        20
Ramadi            10           10            _     -             -            -            -                  -          -
Baghdad          233   14,12,10,5           22            6          164            -                       i65        165
Tikrit            10           10            -            _-                        -            -                       -
Kut               33           13           8             -           ;2           '2             -           _2
Suvaira            8             -           -            -            8            -            8            -          8
Hilla             54             8           8            -           33-           8             -         30         38
SO=TI       Diwaniya          10             -           -            -           16            -           16            -         16
Samawa            10           10            _-                        -            -                   -                -
Amara             18           10            -            -            8            3             _           -          8
Nissiriya         10            10           -            _-                              -                              -
Rifai             10           10            -            -            _            _            _            _          _
Basrah            81           65          16             _-                                                  -          -
sm Qasr           20             -           -            -           20            -            -          20         2C
Total        928          264          78           26          560           36            36         488        560






ANNEX 8
Page 1
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Present and Proposed Grading Standards
Present Grain Grading
1.        An effective national grain pricing policy must be based on
well-specified grain types and grades because of the number of varieties
and different qualities of wheat and barley being marketed. Grain standards
are generally established to reflect a price for a given quality of grain
for a known end use. Those standards and grading systems that are well
established take into consideration the qualities needed for a given use
and the market place can-then determine a value for that quality at any
time. Moreover, well-defined and accepted grading standards allow for a
more efficient grain marketing and storage system by providing basis for
uniform pricing and by removing the need for owner identification of grain
stocks. Because there are no accepted standards, the Grain Board must pre-
serve owner identification of grain stored in its facilities for others.
This means, for example, that a particular owner's lot of 200 tons of grain
will take up an entire silo bin that could hold 600 tons in order to
preserve owner identify. Furthermore, the Grain Board charges the owner
only for the amount of grain stored, not the total space committed.
Types of Grain Grown and Imported
2.        From the information received and the samples observed, there are
three types of wheat grown in Iraq -- one is a durum similar to the durums
grown in the United States and Canada; one is a bread-wheat similar to the
hard red winter bread-wheats of the Great Plains of the United States and
Soviet Union; and one resembles somewhat the soft wheats grown in Australia
and elsewhere. Mexipak is widely used in Iraq and is expected to greatly
increase bread-wheat production. Two types of barley are grown -- black
barley, which is preferred, and white barley. Iraq imports hard spring-
wheats from Canada, hard red winter bread wheat from the Soviet Union, and
softer types of dual bread-pastry wheats from Australia.
Grain Utilization
3.        Wheats.  No one actually knows the percentages of wheats used for
the various products made, but the State Company of Flour Mills provides the
following estimate:



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Iraq Flat Bread (Khibiz)                 47
European Type Bread                       15
Confections (Cakes and Pastries)          10
Burghul and Habia                          5
Paste Products (Macaroni, etc.)            6
Animal Feeds (Bran and Screenings)       17
100
4.        Three of the products -- burghul, habia, and the paste products --
are best made from durum-type wheat and those types grown in Iraq appear
to be of excellent quality for such use. There is also an export potential
for Iraq durum wheat. Burghul, known as bulgar in the United States, is a
native product, used generally in the same manner as rice. Consumption of
the product appears to be decreasing, however, with the increase in con-
sumption of rice.
5.        Only two flours are made by the Government flour mills -- No. 0
flour, 30% extraction, and No. 1 flour, 55% extraction (brand and screenings,
15% extraction, total 100%). No. 0 is a 0.5% ash flour, used for European-
type breads while No. 1 is a 1.0% ash flour, used for the native-type breads.
These ash figures are quoted at 14% moisture. The quality of 0-type flour
measured by ash is quite low at 0.5%, which would indicate either improper
wheat preparation or improper milling. Maltose control, and addition of
oxidizing agents such as chlorine, dioxide, and/or other materials would
greatly improve this flour's baking performance. Hard red winter-type bread
wheats, particularly, require maltose and oxidizing agents to attain optimum
performance in baked goods. The whole wheat flours manufactured in the
native artisan mills and No. 1 flour are used mostly for the manufacture of
khibiz (khubuz).
6.        Barley. Barley grown is eaten in bread-stuffs, it is used by the two
breweries in Baghdad, and large quantities are fed to animals. The black
barley is preferred, apparently because it has slightly higher protein content
and also tends to be more plump.
Laboratory Testing
7.        The Grain Board laboratories take official samples at random for
each 200 metric tons of grain delivered to them. The 2,000-gram samples are
taken by hand and divided on a mechanical divider. A 200-gram portion is
used to make a moisture test and either a 50-#7 or 100-gram portion is hand
separated to determine amounts of foreign material, foreign seeds, broken
grain, shrivelled grain, and zuon (noxious weed seed). An infestation check
is also made as is a gravity test. A certificate with all the data thus
compiled becomes the official determinant for establishing the price to be
paid. On imported lots, similar tests are taken, primarily to compare the
actual deliveries with the purchase sample.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
8.        The normal information flow on wheats is that the Grain Board
supplies samples of the wheat available, both in domestic supplies and
from world markets, to the General Company of Flour Mills, which, in turn,
recommends purchases to the Grain Board. Contracts are then made with
suppliers. The contracts for domestic suppliers, include a standard set
of quality specifications and discounts for failure to meet them (Appendix
A). Import purchases are made on the basis of samples, which are analyzed
and data recorded (para 7).
Proposed Grain Standards
9.        Appendix B presents a proposal for definite grains standards.
If a grading system based on these or similar standards were adopted, imple-
mentation of a nationwide grain pricing policy would be made easier and
the grain Boards service storage operations could become more efficient.
The proposed project contains a provision for foreign training of the Grain
Board personnel who would be charged with the responsibility of devising and
implementing an improved grading system (Annex 13).






ANNEX 8
Appendix A
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Present Domestic Purchase Contract Standards
of Quality
Wheat                                                         Deduction From
Contract Price
Dust and impurities shall be #5 or less. For each
1%, over 3%, a deduction shall be made of                              1%
Foreign seeds, and other grains, shall be 3% or less.
For each 1/2%, over 3%, a deduction shall be made of                   1%
Zwan (a noxious weed seed) shall not exceed 3/4%
Broken wheat shall not exceed 4%.
For each 1%, over 4%, a deduction shall be made of                     1/2%
Shrivelled, frost-damaged wheat shall not exceed 2%.
The wheat shall not contain smut balls.
For up to 1% smut balls, a deduction shall be made equal to
the smut. For 1% to 2% smut balls, a deduction shall be made
of twice the smut percentage.
Moisture content shall not exceed 9%. For each 1%, over 9%
to 12%, a deduction shall be made of                                   1%
Insect-infested grain shall be fumigated by the Grain Board
at the seller's cost, according to the published price.
Barley                                                        Deductions from
Contract Price
Dockage shall not exceed 3%. For each 1% in excess
of 3%, a deduction shall be made of                                    1%
Broken barley shall not exceed 4%. For each 1%, in excess
of 4%, a deductional shall be made of                                  1/2%
Barley shall be free of rust and smut. For up to 1% smut
balls, a deduction shall be made of                                    1%
For 1% to 2% smut balls, a deduction shall be made of                  2%



ANNEX 8
Appendix A
Page 2
Barley shall be free of infestation.
If infested, it shall be fumigated at the seller's cost.
Moisture content shall not exceed 10%. For each 1%, between
10% and 12%, a deduction shall be made of an amount equal
to the excess.



ANiNEX 8
Appendix B
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Proposed Grain Standards
Wheat
Durum
1.        Durum wheat shall be hard vitreous wheat of the class triticum
durum, commonly known in Iraq as "Italian" wheat.
No. 1 Durum wheat shall have the following qualities:
(a) It shall weigh not less than 77 kg per hectoliter.
(b) Moisture content shall not exceed 9%.
(c) Dockage in the form of foreign matter shall not exceed 3%.
(d) Dockage in the form of foreign seeds and other grains shall
not exceed 3%.
(e) Broken wheat, consisting of particles less than 3/4 of an
unbroken kernel, shall not exceed 4%.
(f) Shrivelled or frost-damaged wheat shall not exceed 2%.
(g) Zwan (a noxious weed seed) shall not exceed 2%.
(h) Wheat shall contain no smut.
(i) Wheat shall contain no moldy kernels.
(j) Wheat shall contain no heat-damaged kernels.
(k)  Wheat shall contain no stored grain insects.
No. 2 Durum wheat shall have the following qualities:
(a) It siiall weigh not less than 74 kg per hectoliter.
(b) Mloisture content shall not exceed 10-1/2%.
(c) Dockage in the form of foreign matter shall not exceed 4%.



ANNEX 8
Appendix B
Page 2
(d) Dockage in the form of foreign seeds and other grains shall
not exceed 3-1/2%.
(e) Broken wheat, consisting of particles less than 3/4 of an
unbroken kernel, shall not exceed 5%.
(f) Shrivelled or frost damaged wheat shall not exceed 2%.
(g) Zwan (a noxious weed seed) shall not exceed 2%.
(h) Wheat shall contain no more than 1% smut balls.
(i) Wheat shall contain no more than 1% of the grain with
evidence of mold contamination.
(j) Wheat shall contain not more than 2% of the grain with
evidence of heat damage.
(k)  Wheat shall contain no more than two live stored grain
insects in 2,000 grams.
No. 3 Durum wheat shall have the following qualities:
(a) It shall weigh not less than 72 kg per hectoliter.
(b) Moisture content shall not exceed 12%.
(c) Dockage, in the form of foreign matter, shall not exceed 5%.
(d) Dockage, in the form of foreign seeds and other grains shall not
exceed 4%.
(e) Broken wheat, consisting of particles less than 3/4 of an
unbroken kernel, shall not exceed 6%.
(f) Shrivelled or frost damaged wheat shall not exceed 2%.
(g) Zwan (a noxious weed seed) shall not exceed 3/4%.
(h) Wheat shall contain no more than 2% smut balls.
(i) Wheat shall contain no more than 3% of the grain with evidence
of mold damage.
(j) Wheat shall contain no more than 3% of the grain with evidence
of heat damage.
(k) Wheat shall contain no more than four live stored grain
insects in 2,000 grams.



ANNEX 8
Appendix B
Page 3
2.        Sample Grade Durum shall be all Durum wheats not meeting the above
specifications. Such grain may be rejected, or purchased or stored under
a special negotiated contract only. Such a contract may provide for cleaning,
fumigating, drying, or other processing to bring the net weight of the
processed grain into an acceptable grade standard.
3.        Bread Wheats.  Bread wheats shall be hard vitreous wheats of the
class triticum vulgare, and of the sub-classes known as hard red winter
and hard red spring wheats. The protein content shall be not less than 11%.
The grading factors shall be as shown for durum wheats.
4.        Soft Wheats.  Soft wheats shall be soft, starchy endosperm
wheats of the class triticum vulgare and of sub-classes known as soft red
and soft white wheats. The protein content shall not exceed 11%.
Barley
5.        There shall be two sub-classes of barley - black and white.
Barley shall be of the class hordenm vulgare. (or hordeum satirnm)
No 1 Barley shaU  have the following qualities:
(a) It shall weigh no less than 62 kg per hectoliter
(b) Moisture content shaU not exceed 10%.
(c) Dockage (foreign matter, foreign grains, and weed seeds)
shall not exceed 3%.
(d) Broken barley, consisting of particles less than 3/4 of
a whole kernel, shall not exceed 4%.
(e) Barley shall be free of smut.
(f) Barley shall contain no moldy kernels
(g) Barley shall contain no heat-damaged kernels.
(h) Barley shall contain no live stored grain insects.
No. 2 Barley shall have the following qualities:
(a) It shall weigh no less than 59 kg per hectoliter.
(b) Moisture content shall not exceed 11%.
(c) Dockage (foreign matter, foreign grains, and weed seeds)
shall not exceed 4%.
(d) Broken barley, consisting of particles less than 3/4 of
a whole kernel, shall not exceed 5%.



ANNEX 8
Appendix B
Page 4
(e) Barley shall not contain more than 1% smut balls.
(f) Barley shall not contain more than 1% of the grain showing
evidence of mold contamination.
(g) Barley shall not contain more than 1% of the grain showing
evidence of heat damage.
(h) Barley shall contain no more than 2 live stored grain insects
per 2,000 gram sample.
No. 3 Barley shall have the following qualities:
(a) It shall weigh no less than 57 kg per hectoliter.
(b) Moisture content shall not exceed 12%.
(c) Dockage in the form of foreign matter, foreign grains, and
weed seeds shall not exceed 5%.
(d) Broken barley, consisting of particles less than 3/4 of a
whole kerne1, shall not exceed 5%.
4
(e) Barley shall not contain more than 2% smut balls.
(f) Barley shall not contain more than 3% of the grain showing
evidence of mold damage.
(g) Balley shall not contain more than 3% of the grain showing
evidence of heat damage.
(h) Barley shall not contain more than 4 live stored grain insects
per 2,000 gram sample.
6.        Sample Grade Barley shall be all barley not meeting the above
specifications. Such grain may be rejected, or purchased or stored under
a special negotiated contract only. Such a contract may provide for cleaning,
fumigating, drying or other processing to bring the net weight of processed
grain into an acceptable grade standard.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Detailed DescriPtion of Project Storage Facilities
General
1.        The number, location, and size of silos required throughout the
country were determined by a system analysis of the total grain storage and
distribution situation projected for 1980 (Annex 7). To fulfill the stor-
age and handling requirements identified, two basic types of silos were
selected: gathering and terminal. The gathering-type silo minimizes the
required handling equipment and operation costs and also provides a lower
per unit storage cost than the conventional terminal silo. The gathering-~
type is a particularly suitable facility where the principal function is to
receive and aggregate farm production for bulk shipment to larger facilities
in the urban areas. However, since it can be built efficiently up from its
basic size of 8,000 tons to a maximum size of only about 20,000 tons, the
gathering silo was selected for locations where there was an indicated
required storage capacity of at least 8,000 by 1976 and a requirement of no
more than 20,000 tons by 1980. An analysis of nationwide storage requirements
also indicated that three of the existing silos should be expanded in storage
and handling capacity and detailed engineering studies would be made to
determine the best way to accomplish this. The mission recommended that it
be done by annexing a gathering silo unit of 8,000 tons to the existing
silos and cost estimates were made on this basis.
2.        The more conventional terminal-type silos of a minimum capacity of
20,000 tons to which can be added additional storage units of 5,000 tons
each up to a maximum of 100,000 tons would be built in locations indicating
a minimum requirement of 20,000 tons and a high level of handling activity.
In addition, an import/export transfer silo of 20,000 tons capacity is
recommended at the ocean port of Um Qasr. The types of silos are described
in more detail below.
3.        All three types are to be built using the "slipform" method of
construction, which provides a homogeneous structure at minimum cost,
because maximum use is made of the formwork and less reinforcing steel is
needed due to the continuity of the structural elements. Furthermore, there
are definite savings in construction time by the slipform method. Estimates
are based on the foundation for these structures being on piles in the
central and southern parts of the countrv and allowance was made for possible
rock excavation in the northern region (Figure 1). There are also alternative
locations for the reclaim conveyor in the storage units.
4.        Gathering Silo.  Gathering silos would consist of a gravity-type
headhouse with capacities of 8,000 to 16,000 tons and provisions for future
annexed storage units of 4,0W- r6ng-each, up-t1,  a-totai-cepeeity-of 20,000 tons



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(Figure 2). This type of structure eliminates most of the horizontal
conveying machinery in the basic 8,000 ton unit and lends itself to a
rapid turnover, i.e. receiving and loading out. The annexed storage would
give the silo a long-term storage capability without interference with the
in and out movement. The grain handling rate would be 100 tons/hr at all
the silos except at the expansion facilities proposed at Mosul, Baquba, and
Suwaira. Because of increased handling burdens, the capacity at those three
would be 150 tons/hr.
5.        The procedure at a gathering silo would be as follows:
(a) Gravity-type headhouse (Figures 3 - 4):
ti) Grain would be received either by truck, rail, barge,
or in bags. Bagged grain would be unloaded into pits
under a shed, with dock height at truck-bed level.
From these pits, it would be carried by screw conveyor
to the bucket elevators and into the silo.  There would
be a "drive through" silo where bulk grain delivered
by truck would be dumped by an overhead lift into one
of two pits that could hold 28 tons each; these pits
would also be used for receiving bagged grain. From
the pits, grain would flow to either of two bucket
elevators into the silo. Bulk grain delivered by
railroad would be scooped out of boxcars by power
shovels or discharged out of hopper cars into a
receiving pit under the truck. From there, it would
be carried by screw conveyor to a back pit from which
it would flow by gravity to the bucket elevators into
the silo. Bulk grain from barges would be conveyed
into a receiving bin from which it would flow by
gravity into the bucket elevators and into the silo.
(ii) Grain would be elevated by either of two bucket elevators,
which would discharge either into a scale or a distributor.
(iii) From the scale, grain could flow to the distributor or
to the rail load-out spout.
(iv) The distributor would be a double-spout type; either
spout could go to any bin or tank in the silo or both
could go simultaneously to the same bin or tank. This
feature allows doubling the flow rate into any of the
gravity house bins or tanks.
(v) Bins in the area above the driveway would be divided
horizontally about mid-height by a floor where separators
are installed. The upper bins would hold the dirty
grain as it is delivered, and it would flow later through
the separators to be cleaned and then released into the



ANNEX 9
Page 3
lower bins. From these bins, the grain could be dumped
into truck receiving pits and reelevated to any part
of the silo. The separators, one in each silo, would
have a capacity of 80 tons/hr.
(b) Annexed Storage Bins
(i) Grain would be received through the gravity house to
a top belt conveyor that receives from the distributor.
(ii) Grain on the top belt conveyor would be discharged into
any bin or tank by a self-propelled tripper with
manually prepositioned stops; the tripper would be
powered by the same top belt conveyor.
(iii) Grain would be reclaimed from the annexed storage by
gravity flow to a bottom belt conveyor which would
carry it to a back pit in the gravity house. From
there, it would flow to either of the bucket elevators.
All gates required would be manually operated.
6.        Terminal Silos
(a) The headhouse, or working house would be attached to the
first storage unit, which would hold approximately 10,000
tons (Figures 5 - 6). Beyond this capacity, provisions
would be made for additional storage units to be added up
to a total silo capacity of 1on , oon tons. The annexed
storage would be connected to the headhouse by a tunnel and
a bridge at bin-top level. The internal handling rate for
the basic system would be 150 tons/hr.
(b) Grain would be received from bags, rail, trucks, and barges;
it would go out of the silo to the same transportation
facilities as mentioned above and direct transfers could be
made   (Figure 7.)
(c) The following machinery would be required:
(i) Provisions would be made in the headhouse for four
bucket elevators:
-    Two bucket elevators for the silos with up to
30,000 tons capacity;
-    Three bucket elevators if silo is to receive from
rail, trucks, and barges;



ANNEX 9
Page 4
-    Four bucket elevators if the silo has 40,000 tons
capacity or greater.
(ii) Scales:
-    Two automatic increment scales with 400 ton
weigh hoppers for silos up to 30,000 tons
capacity;
-    Two automatic increment scales with 680 ton
weigh hoppers for silos over 30,000 tons
capacity.
(iii) Separators (cleaners):
-    For 10,n00  ton silo, one 80 ton/hr capacity;
-    For 20,000 ton silo, one 135 ton/hr capacity;
-    For 30,000 ton silo, two 80 ton/hr capacity;
-    For 40,000 ton silo, two 110 ton/hr capacity;
-    For 50,000 ton and larger silos, two 135
ton/hr capacity;
(iv) Horizontal conveying systems, consisting of belt convevors
except for the bag unloading hoppers, which would use a
screw conveyor.
(v) Top storage conveyor, discharged bv a self-propelled
tripper with manually placed stops.
(vi) Manually operated gates from bins to bottom conveyor.
(vii) Hydraulic platform truck dumper with hopper under shed
discharging into belt conveyor to house.
7.        Common Features.  The following are items and facilities that would
be common to all silos:
(a) Bag Unloading: Pits for four trucks under a shed, with
gratings on top for discharging into a screw conveyor, which
would carry the grain into the silo.
(b) Truclc Scale: i-ut type and drive-on scale with automatic
nrint-out and double-face dial.
(c)  Bagging House:  One bag scale, sewing machine, and belt
conveyor for bags. In gathering silo, it would be incor-
porated at the end of the bagged grain warehouse while in



ANNEX 9
Page 5
the terminal building, it would be housed in a shed built
against the headhouse building.
(d) Bagged Grain Temporary Storage: For gathering silos a
warehouse of 10 m x 30 m (300 tons) and for terminal
silos there would be a warehouse of 20 m x 30 m (600 tons)
for temporary storage of bagged grain. Both types of
warehouses would be provided with docks and floors at same
level as truck beds. Terminal silos would have two fork-lift
trucks. There would be access to a dock adjacent to the
railroad siding to utilize the fork-lift trucks for loading
or unloading from rail.
(e) Temperature Detection: All long-term storage bins would
have temperature read-out cables; these would have a
reading console at the headhouse office in the silo. The
reading console would be manually switched to each cable and
readings would be recorded by the operator.
(f) Dust Control: All open-air discharges of grain would have a
dust collecting hood. These collecting points would be tied
into aspirating systems that discharge into collectors that
separate the air and dust with at least a 90% efficiency.
The dust would be carried into a bin or hopper from where
it would be bagged and either sold or taken to a fill area.
(g) Signal System: The signaling system would consist of phones
and signal lights with horns from the headhouse office to the
bin top floor, basement, cleaner floor, truck dump, rail
bulk loading and unloading area, bagging shed and warehouse,
barge shipping floor, and dock area. On the bin top floor
over the storage areas and in the basement of these areas,
phones, signal lights, and horns would be placed at intervals
of about 25 meters. The phones would be used to give general
instructions and the lights (red and green) with the horn would
signal when to stop or release the grain flow.
(h) Fire Fighting: All silos would have individual extinguishers
at all floors, and in the galleries and basements they should
be approximately 30 meters from any point. They would be
located near all electric motors and in the main switch room.
A 4-in diameter stand pipe would be placed in the headhouse
in such a manner that all floors could have a hydrant and
enough 2-in hose to reach any point on that floor. In the
storage areas, there would be a 4-in diameter stand pipe to
the bin top floor at least every 50 meters. These stand pipes
would be provided with an exterior connection at the bottom
so that a standard fire fighting pumper truck could be
connected.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
(i) Fumigation: Fumigation would be done in the silo and in the
bag fumigation room with Phostoxin tablets. Dispensing
machines would be placed in the bucket elevators to disperse
the tablets in the grain.
(j) Electrical Power and Lighting: All electrical power
controls and lighting fixtures would be explosion-proof.
The main switch room, however, would be isolated from the
rest of the silo and be pressurized when any of the machinery
is in operation so that the switch gear would not have to be
explosion-proof. Obstruction lights would be placed at
the highest points on the silos to conform with aviation
regulations. These would be dual lights and would remain
on permanently. Mercury vapor lights would be used
throughout the elevator site to provide, in general, 2
candle power as a minimum. Work areas, such as dumping points,
would have a minimum of 10 candle power.
(k) Miscellaneous:
(i)  A manlift with a two-person capacity would be used in
the gathering silo and terminal silo headhouses. Stair-
ways would be used only from the work floor to the
basement. A safety ladder would be run along the
manlift. Materials and equipment would be lifted by
means of a joist team conveniently placed over large
removable windows at each floor. There would be a
hoist beam at the end of each storage gallery where there
would be a large removable window.
(ii) Safety ladders would be placed on the outside walls as
a means of escape and they would be caged for security.
(iii)  All gates would be rack and pinion type except for pit
gates, such as those in the driveway of the gathering
house, which would have slide gates. No flop gates
would be used.
(iv) Load-out spouts would have a flexible spout extension
attached to their lower end in order that grain could be
directed during loading.
(v)  Curtain doors would be used in the gathering house and
in the shed over the truck dump pit.
(vi) All exterior tanks and bins would have access at the
bottom through cast iron manholes. All tanks with roofs
would have cast iron scuttles.



ANNEX 9
Page 7
(1) Ancillary works - these would include:
(i) Office space (Figure 8):
-    100 m  for the gathering silo; and
-    139 m  for the terminal silo.
(ii)  A shop for maintenance work with a fenced work
yard would be built as shown in typical layouts.
The shop would be equipped to fabricate or replace
spouts, i.e. a shear, brake, press drill, steel
band saw, electric welder, gas cut and welding
torch, hydraulic jacks, "come-alongs", chain hoists,
and the like;
(iii)  A canteen for the workers, with rest rooms, lavatories,
showers, lockers, and kitchenette facilities;
(iv)  A stock room for repair parts and replacements;
(v)  Steel link fencing or similar to enclose the silo site;
(vi)  Water supply facilities, depending on location of site;
(vii) Substation to provide power at the site;
(viii)  Sewer system, depending on location of site;
(ix)  Paving for driveways and areas where grain spills;
(x)  Site grading, drainage, and landscaping according to
location of site; and
(xi)  Guardhouse (gate) with living accommodations for
permanent guard.
8.        Optional Features.  The following items are optional because they
reflect the requirements of the particular location of the silo within the
county:
(a) .Dryer: Where dryers are required, units with a capacity
of 20 tons/hr would be provided. The dryers would be
oil-fired, continuous flow, with the usual safety devices
to ensure safe operation and to prevent heat damage to
grain. In the gathering house, the dryer could be located
next to one of the tanks that would have a dividing bottom
at mid-height. The grain in the upper half of this tank
would flow by gravity to the dryer and the spout used would
have a fire gate and a by-pass gate to the bottom portion
of the tank; flow regulation would be set by the dryer
mechanism. Out-flow grain from the dryer would travel by



ANNEX 9
Page 8
gravity to a bucket elevator that would discharge into the
bottom half of the tank. In the terminal-type silo, the
dryer would be fed continuously by a bucket elevator
receiving grain from one of the tanks. Out-flow grain from
the dryer would flow by gravity to a bucket elevator that
would distribute the grain to one of the tanks.
(b) Barge Load and Unloading: Four dolphins would be located
off shore at points where there is enough depth for a
fully loaded barge to tie up. Behind the dolphin or
breasting line, there would be a tower that would support
the end of a conveyor bridge and a floor to house the
vacuum blower and silencer. A swivel support and boom
structure for a suction hose would be installed on top of
the bridge to allow movement of the hose to remove grain
from the barge. This grain would flow through a separator
and on to a conveyor, which would transport the grain to the
silo.  For loading out, the grain would be weighed and
dropped into a shipping bin from which it would be spouted
to a conveyor-  This would transport the grain to the
load-out boom directly over the barge being loaded. The
conveyor from and to the barge would be a belt type that
would use the top to load-out and the bottom to receive
grain from the pneumatic system.
(c) Rail Facilities: For load-out to rail, a load-out spout
would run directly off the scale to fill boxcars or hopper
cars by gravity. For unloading boxcars at the terminal silos,
automatic power shovels would be installed which would scoop
grain into a pit below the track. From there, a belt
conveyor would transport it into the silos. Hopper cars would
unload directly into the receiving pit.
9.        The Um Qasr Import/Export Transfer Silo.  The function of this
silo would be to provide an increased transfer capability for import and
export operations. The increased capability is sorely needed in order to
reduce the high demurrage charges levied by international shipping firms
and to prevent an increase in rates. The facility would unload grain from
ships into barges, railroad cars, and trucks. Storage capacities would be
provided to hold about 20,000 tons, which represents the average ship
load arriving at Basrah. This surge storage capacity is needed to allow
rapid unloading of ships even if the necessary barges, railroad cars, or
trucks are not immediately available. The facility would also be able to
load ships, barges, railroad cars, and trucks from the silo.
10.       A slipformed concrete headhouse would be composed of four 4.9-meter
diamater tanks with two half tanks between them in one axis and spread
three meters on the other The capacity of this unit would be 4,000 tons.
The storage unit would consist of 10 pairs of 7.3-meter diameter tanks
tangent to each other in a transverse axis and spread 2.7 meters in a
longitudinal axis. The capacity of this section would be 15,500 tons,
providing a total capacity of about 20,000 tons. See Figure 9 for general



ANNEX 9
Page 9
configuration. The handling machinery would be designed for 600 ton/hr
grain flow. There would be three bucket elevators in the headhouse to
receive grain from the ship and load out to trucks, barges, and/or rail.
An automatic increment scale would be provided for each bucket elevator.
Grain flow to and from the storage unit would be by belt conveyor. All
grain handling systems that discharge through the atmosphere would have
suction hoods connected to the dust collecting system. Temperature detection
cables would be placed only in the storage tanks for possible long-term
storage.
11.       The dock to support the transfer equipment would be built off
shore and have a lowest low water of at least 10.1 meters (33 feet), which
is the current depth along other wharves in Um Qasr. It would be a concrete
platform 15 meters x 122 meters supported on piles and designed to withstand
the docking shocks received when breasting a vessel. This dock would support
the two pneumatic ship unloader towers, which are movable along its
longitudinal axis. It would also support the collecting conveyor that -_
carries the grain to the silo or to the transfer tower where it would be
elevated to be weighed and spouted to barges. The inland site of the dock
would be designed to dock the barges that receive the grain from the silo
or ship. The belt conveyor that transfers the grain to the silo would be
designed so that it would also serve to carry the grain from the silo to the
transfer tower on the dock.
12.       There would be a vehicular bridge from the shore to the dock for
maintenance service and to carry provisions to the ship. This bridge would
have a span with enough width and clearance to allow the barges to pass
under it. There would be at least four ship dolphins connected to the dock
by catwalks to tie the ship. On the opposite side of the dock, there
would be an adequate number of large dolphins to hold and position the
barges in the loading operation.
13.       The site for the silo would be adequately drained and fenced.
Driveways and areas where grain would be handled, such as the railroad
load-out area, would be paved. There would be two spur trucks, and a light
switching vehicle would be provided. There would also be an office,
maintenance shop, and canteen. Water, sewer, and power would be provided.
14.       Basrah Modification - The planned modification to the Basrah silo
in order to receive bulk imports at the rate of 600 tons/hr is shown in
Figure 10.






ANNA 9
IRAO        ~~~Figure 1
IRAQ                  2
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
BIN PLANS & FOUNDATION ALTERNATES
co,   4                                         X_
i 7.5 Mts
GATHERING SILO                  TERMINAL SILO
BIN PLANS
-~~~~~~~ I
FOUNDATION ALTERNATES
World Bank -6583(



IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
SITE DEVELOPMENT - TYPICAL GATHERING SILO
250 MTS
rX           X    ~        XX           X X                              X                                  X- x
(0                                  flt  CE                  [                  060 MTS
ID E       I
50 MTS                      I     o  F                  V    4 CARS
Vvvv                         1
r-xn~~~~~~~~
G
H~~~~~~~~~~
A -SUBSTATION                   )H                                    -
B   FUTURE STOFRAGE
C -DRYER                       o                                  T 
D -SACKING AREA
E - BAGGED GRAIN
F - BAG UNLOADING
G -WORK YARD                                       J
H - SHOPA
I - CANTEEN                                             TRUCKS
J - STOCK
K - OF FIC EA
L --TRUCK SCALE                                                   U                                I
M   GUARD HOUSE                                                                                   X
x
140 MTS
Wodd Bank- 6604(2RI



ANNE 9
Figure 3
A                   26.00 Mts.
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT                                                               RIVE THROUGH
TYPICAL GATHERING SILO                                                                            FT
CAPACITY 8000 Tons
DUST COLLECTOR                                                                           I
SCALE
DISTRIBUTOR                                                                                            DUST SIN
/C \  N                              BIN PLAN
SEi PARATORS_ K  t  t                  s\                                   * All steel spouting. Round at top floors. Rectangular spout
at bottom, wear points rubber lined or dead boxed.
_  Rack & pinion valves all overhead bins.
* Steel curtain doors for driveway.
* Load out spout use well casing,
m          a * Flex spout at load out.
\ 7Y/ H.P. truck lift.
* Two dump pits.
* 100 T/hr. elevating legs(2).
* 700 kg Automatic scale.
* Electric manlift (2 persons)
* Remotely controlled double distributor.
0
SCTIO                                                                               WOld Bank -ACK  PIT
SECTION                                                                             World EBank-63(



ANNEX  9
IRAQ                              Figure 4
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
FLOW DIAGRAM FOR GATHERING SILO
BELT CONVEYOR                                           DO                  \
/~~~PE                                                DOU8LE UTO
BINS   OVER  1          CLEANERS
ANNEX STORAGE             TANKS           SEPARATOR                 SEPARATOR             BINS&
(3)                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~TANKS
z                         
U                0~~~~~0 LL4~ 
DRIVEWAY PITS/
BAG UNLOADING
SHED HOPPERS
\    \H  /9SCREW CONVEYOR
X                  I~~~~~~~TYPICAL)
- Wol7 fla.5k G776






ANNEX 9
IRAQ                                              Er6
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
TERMINAL SILO HEADHOUSE
HE AOHO USE
MACHINERY FLOOR                               _
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.    + TS L
SCALEll FLO                   I                               IL
DISTRIBUTOR            +!
-- __ _ i         EBIN TOP FLOOR          _ 
50.5 STS
2nd OVERHEAD
:. TS _,        _     SEPARATOR FLOOR uu
r               1 1 ZS                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~         ~~~~~~~~~DISTRI91,TOF  SCALE FLOOR
1st OVERHE \D         2;_                                                                 |
usII4OOI                       WORK FLOOR              +                                       ,RIDCF
_1  nio                                   zo4\   I 1   .                                                 4       
____________    BASEMENT LEVEL          A             .                                     ro
SECTION
SETARArOP FLOOR               H1I TOP
/                   ~~~~~~~~/ SHOUT FLOORI
TEAAA--AL                                   .ASEMENT FLOOR              WORE FLOOR
PLAN                                                                    FLOOR PLANS



M 9
Figure 7
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
FLOW DIAGRAM FOR TERMINAL SILO
ELEVATORS
DOUBLE          |         NOTE: Doubie distributor with cross-over
| ISTRIBUTOR                    and/or combined discharge feature,
BELT CONVEYOR
l   11   1~  3    5    6    9    10          &
INITIAL STORAGE                                                                          ANNEX STORAGE
wot|    ~1  |2    3    5    6    9     1 0    a               8Y
HYDRAULIC TRu
DUMPER
i    S  1  ELEVATORS
a - To dust disPosl
KEY PLAN                                                                                     We  akGf2R
Word 8ni    HOPPER



IRAQ                                                                          IRX.O
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT                                                         GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
GATHERING SILO OFFICE                                                          TERMINAL SILO OFFICE
1.7m_ 1 .8rn      6lr61mn' ~                                                                   13.2m- 
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32
40           ~~~VAULT
E   F    VAULT rJ    -        !                         J    VAULT               ~~~~~~~~~~~    ~      ~     ~~~~~~~GHAL. OFFICE_
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t       7    <          ~~~~~~~~GRAL. OFFICE   _                        
E                                                                                                                                               0
i                                                                                                                                               0a
VESTIBULE  GRAL. MANAGER  _                                           VESTIBULE  GRAL.MANAGER    ACCOUNTANT
N
TRUCK SCALE  3.0m n 18.2n                                              TRUCK SCALE   3.Om  18.2m                                             <>
PLAN-B                                                                       PLAN-C
World B-nk -65861RI                                                                    World 8ank-6579(R)



IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
PROPOSED UM QASR TRANSFER SILO
CATWALK                      CATWALK
4 SHIP DOLPHINS
B            B        L..<.b         50' x 400' DOCK
10 BARGE DOLPHINS ------                         BARGE       ll                          1 
ALLOW BARGE CLEARANCE
2 T RAC KS                          _R A IL LOA DOU T_........
TR~~~~~~~~ANSFER SILO _
TOTAL STORAGE                                                                                TRUCK ACCESS TO DOCK
CAPACITY 20,000 TONS                        - ---
[    TRUCK LOADOUT
A. Scale house for loadout to barges from silo or direct from ship.       C. Conveyor from gantries.
B. Travelling gantries with 2-150 ton/hr. pneumatic - unloader tubes each and  D. Belt conveyor (two-way).                           \0 \
2 - loadout tubes each. Total capacitV: 600 tons/hr.                   E. Loadout spout to bages.
NOTE: All systems designed tor 600 tons/hr. capacity.
World Bank-6666(R)



IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
PROPOSED BASRAH PORT SILO MODIFICATION
EXISTING STORAGE                               HEADHOUSE                                  EXISTING STORAGE
w
tr                                                                        BARGE
O                                     B sEARGE        |\            o      tfG
> I                                                           _
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ _~ -c' -.;1t                                                      
EXISTING EXPORT GALLERY                                                          2 PNEUMATIC UNLOADERS
EXISTING DOCK                                                           TOTAL RATED CAPACITY 600 TONS/HR
A - PRESENT BELT CONVEYOR TO BE REVAMPED FOR RETURN BELT TO TAKE INCOMING GRAIN.
1 - EXISTING BARGE UNLOADING PNEUMATICS
C - PROPOSED ELEVATING LEG
D- PROPOSED COLLECTING CONVEYOR                                                                                                      World 8ank6Et73
E- PROPOSED DOCK                                                                                                                                                  O 'O



ANNEX 10
Page 1
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
General Terms of Reference for Engineering Consultants
General Scope of Work
1.        An angineering consultant firm would be contracted to assist the
Grain Board in preparing designs for the proposed silo facilities, and tender
documents for contractor bidding, including criteria for contractors qualifi-
cation, and to assist in supervising construction of the silo facilities.
2.        The general duties of the engineering consultant would be as
follows:
(a) Obtain field information:
(i) Topography of site (Plat)
(ii) Soil
(iii) Availability and location of utilities;
(b) Prepare preliminary layouts for approval by Grain Board;
(c) Prepare preliminary estimates of approved layouts;
(d) Prepare detailed design drawings;
(e) Prepare specifications;
(f) Prepare tender documents, including forms for contractors
qualification;
(g) Receive, analyze, and tabulate tenders which would be made
to the Grain Board;
(h) Evaluate the qualifications of responding contractors;
(i) Recommend awards;
C;) Inspect machinery and materials in plants during manufacture
when, in consultation with the Grain Board, it is deemed
prudent to do so;
(k) Maintain a staff of on-site supervising engineers to
supervise the work and performance of all civil, mechanical,
electrical, machinery, and other contractors;



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(1) Review and follow through contractors' and suppliers'
schedules;
(m) Maintain construction accounts;
(n)  Cleck computations, prepare change orders, examine contractors
and equipment and machinery suppliers' applications for
payment;
(o) Advise and assist the Grain Board, upon its request, in
dealing with disputes between the Grain Board and contractors
in the negotiation of prices and supplies;
(p) Assist in selection and consult with outside specialists
(design specialists, marine engineers, etc.)
(q) Assist in selection and direct auxiliary specialized services
(soil mechanics, etc.)
(r) Upon completion of the works, furnish record drawings of
the project "as built" and assemble catalogues, operation
manuals, and written guarantees required of contractors and
equipment and machinery suppliers for each project;
(s) Supervise the running-in and adjustment of machinery, and
prepare "punch lists";
(t) Make final inspection and submit acceptance documents; and
(u) Furnish several on-site personnel for 12 months after
acceptance (warranty period).
Preparation of Tender Documents
3.        The engineering consultants would be responsible for preparing
all the documents required for tendering of the construction contracts
including:
(a) Bidding advertisement and tender invitations;
(b) General conditions;
(c) Special conditions;
(d) Technical specifications;
(e) All design drawings required for construction including:
(i) all structural engineering designs;
(ii) all civil engineering layouts including site drawings; and
(iii) machinery layout and specifications.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
(f) Instruction to tenderers;
(g) Form of contractor's tenders (bid form);
(h) Form of construction contract; and
(i) Questionnaires and qualification forms as needed for
qualification of contractors.
4.             The above documents shall show clearly all requirements necessary
to carry out the construction contracts and shall conform to accepted
engineering practice for similar documents used for the grain storage
construction industry. The engineering consultants shall submit all
documents to the Grain Board for consultation, review, and approval before
having such documents printed in final form. The consulting engineer would
have the major responsibility of providing clarification of the tender
documents to inquiring contractors and notification of such to the other
contractors.
Staffing
5.             The engineering consultants would provide a staff in Iraq, composed
of Iraqi and expatriate personnel. Iraqi consultant firms would provide
expatriate personnel through an association with an expatriate firm for those
positions where no qualified Iraqi personnel are available. Preferably, all
technical personnel would have had previous experience in silo construction,
and the expatriate staff members would have done previous overseas work.
Specific individuals would be designated by the consultants in their
proposals and, subsequently, their formal approval would be obtained from
the Grain Board. The estimated staffing requirements are as follows:
Design and Documents
Silo Facilities Design Personnel and Contract Specialists -
to perform the necessary design work and to prepare tender
documents (estimated: 1 year).
Field Staff
Chief Civil Engineer - an engineer with previous overseas
experience, particularly in contract administration; to be
stationed for duration of the project (estimated: 4 years).
Silo Civil Engineers - one engineer for each contractor; to
start work from the time civil contractor awarded contract
until acceptance (estimated: 2 years).
Site Inspectors - chief inspector with two general assistant
inspectors; one or two site inspectors per construction site;
to start work from the time civil works contractor begins
mobilization until acceptance (estimated: 2 years).



ANNEX 10
Page 4
One Mechanical Engineer - to work during installation and
testing of machinery (estimated: 1 year).
One Electrical Engineer - to work during installation and
testing of electrical equipment (estimated: 1 year).
One Accountant - to maintain project accounts (estimated: 4 years).
Short Term Experts - one for piling (estimated: 6 months).
one for slip-form (estimated: - year).
Auxiliary Personnel - 3 Secretaries (I for 4 years; 2 for 2 years)
4 Drivers      (1 for 4 years; 3 for 2 years)
3 Messengers (1 for 4 years; 2 for 2 years)
The consultant would be expected to provide his own offices, housing, and
vehicles.
6.        Engineering Supervision Cost Estimate.  The cost of engineering
consulting services was based on an estimate of about 7% of the total silo
work. About 40% or US$1.9 million was estimated to be the foreign exchange
component of the services while 602 or US$2.3 million was estimated to be
the local currency component.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 1
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Grain Board Inventory Management
and Terms of Reference for Management Consultants
A. Existing Control Systems
1.        The Grain Board currently operates silos at seven locations, two
of which are in Baghdad. The control of operations is highly centralized,
with a monthly plan for grain movements being produced at a senior level
in the Manager of Silos Department. No mathematical techniques are utilized
for the minimization of transportation and the plan is adjusted as the month
progresses, with daily arrangements being made by telephone. No one,
however, is charged with the coordination of transportation requirements. All
transactions and movements are reported daily by the silos to the Grain Board
by post with postal delays varying between three and five days. A summarized
version of this data goes to the accounting and finance department.
2.        Financial control and operations control are largely disjointed,
with an absence of responsibility for accounting or standard costs. The
accountants are primarily concerned with checking payments and receipts and
guarding against fraud and stock losses. Management information which would
be of help in planning is scarce so that the feedback link in the planning
and control loop is to all practical purposes missing. There is no formal
forecasting.
B. Future Requirements
3.        In the future, the Grain Board will be handling a much larger
volume of grain through a much greater number of silos. This will naturally
involve a large increase in the number of transactions. However, more
importantly, the problem of efficiently operating the distribution system
as a whole will be far more complex. The overall strategy of the Grain
Board in the market will need to be translated into an ongoing plan that
can react to errors in forecasts and help the Board minimize its operating
costs. In particular, the application of mathematical techniques, such as
linear programming, would result in substantial savings in handling and
transportation. It is in this latter area that the current systems fall
far short of what is required. The increase in the number of transactions
could possibly be handled by a decentralization of much of the accounting,
as has already been done at Basra. The crux of any improvements to the
present organization structure and control systems would be an Inventory



ANNEX 11
Page 2
control system that would view the Grain Board's system of silos as an
integrated marketing and distribution system for grain.
C. Inventory Control System
Objective of the System
4.        The objective of the inventory control system would be to enable
the Grain Board to operate for maximum profit, consistent with,its grain
marketing objectives. In general terms, the system would provide the
following:
(a) reports of inventory levels and movements;
(b) forecasts of required procurements and movements;
(c) movement schedules to minimize transport and
handling costs subject to inventory level
requirements based on service level and reserve
stock criteria; and
(d) analysis of the performance of the distribution system
to highlight problem areas.
5.        The design would be dependent on the following sumary of the Grain
Board's marketing objectives:
(a) to stabilize prices by removing speculation;
(b) to encourage farming by buying at a price which gives
the farmer an acceptable profit margin;
(c) to sell at a price which enables the Grain Board to be
profitable; and
(d) to provide a storage service for private grain.
6.        The Grain Board would be the sole importer and exporter of grain,
and both operations would take place as a result of deficits and surpluses
in the supply of domestic grain and for no other reason. A grading system
would be introduced so that:
(a) parcels of private grain do not have to be separately
identified; and
(b) grains of various qualities can be blended to the
required quality for a particular class of consumer.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 3
Overview of the System
7.        The grain storage and distribution system would be subjected to a
fairly regular demand over a year, and this would be readily forecastable
annually. Providing that there is an improvement in the quality of national
agricultural statistics, the supply would be forecastable by the end of the
harvest and the Grain Board's share can be expected to enter the silo system
at a fairly regular rate for the next six to 12 weeks. Imports or exports
could be scheduled to take place in the following nine months.
8.        Subject to the foregoing and the requirement to meet a specified
service level to the consumer and to maintain an acceptable reserve stock,
the inventory control system would aim to maximize the Grain Board's profit
by taking account of:
(a) all handling and transportation costs, including ocean
freight rates and demurrage;
(b) interest charges on grain held in stock which has been
imported or is scheduled for export;
Cc) revenue to be derived from providing storage facilities
for private grain; and
(d) profit to be derived by blending grains so that consumers
do not receive better quality grain than they request.
The system, which would be centralized, would operate at four levels of
planning annually, monthly, weekly, and daily. These are discussed below in
terms of what would be required of each and the various means of accomplishing
the task.
9.        Annual Planning.  By the end of June each year, the following
information, by silo location, would be available for input to the Grain
Board's inventory control system:
(a) existing stock levels;
(b) required reserve stock policy;
(c) required service level to the consumer;
(d) forecast demand on the Grain Board for the next year;
(e) forecast domestic supply to the Grain Board for the
next year; and
(f) forecast imports or exports for the next year.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
The annual plan would produce a schedule of purchased grain movements, stock
levels, and available capacity for private grain storage, broken down by silos
and by months. This would entail the use of mathematical techniques in order
to try to optimize the Grain Board's operations. If a computer is available,
linear programming would be applicable.
10.       Monthly Planning.  The purpose of the monthly plan would be, first:
(a) to monitor actual demands and supplies against forecast; and
(b) in the light of this, to monitor distribution system
performance against the strategy set down in the annual plan.
It would then revise the annual strategy if necessary, before breaking it
down into a weekly schedule of movements for the next month. The techniques
required for this stage would be essentially of the same type as for
producing the annual plan.
11.       Weekly Planning.  The purpose of the weekly planning would be to
translate the weekly schedule produced above into actual truck, rail, or
water shipment schedules so that transport could be arranged. The objective
would be to meet the monthly plan laid down, subject to any short-term changes
necessitated by unforeseen circumstances. A weekly stumary of performance
against the plan would be produced so that the remaining weeks in the monthly
plan could be adjusted as required. Until such time as the Grain Board
acquired substantial experience with a computerized system, the actual
transportation schedules would probably be produced most effectively manually.
12.       Daily Reporting.  At the day-to-day level, the system would
record data and update files as input to the planning and analysis stages
already discussed, and produce notifications of movements. Whether this part
of the system were computerized or not, it would be essential that the
transmission of data and reports between the silos and the central administration
of the system be rapid.
13.       Interfaces.  The inventory control system would interface with
various other accounting and control systems, either by sharing inputs or
producing analyzed data. These would include the accounting procedures for
invoicing and the updating of ledgers, budgetary control of handling and
transportation costs, and the statistical analysis of supply and demand data.
D. Design and Implementation
14.       The Grain Board would require technical assistance in revising
any existing systems and in developing any new systems necessary to ensure
its efficient operation after the proposed expansion. Since design of the
inventory control system would be of primary importance and since a feasibility



ANNEX 1 1
Page 5
study would be required to determine whether such a system should be fully
or partially computerized, it would be necessary to engage a management
consultancy firm with computer systems experience. No local firm can provide
the necessary expertise, although some have foreign associates who can.
The Grain Board has appointed a staff member, with computer training, to
work full-time with the consultants with the expectation that he would
subsequently form the nucleus of a Systems Department within the Board. After
the feasibility study, the consulting firm would be required to design and
implement its agreed recommendations. The amount of involvement of any
associated local firm would be largely dependent on the degree of computeri-
zation undertaken.
E. Terms of Reference for Management Consultants
15.       The task designing and implementing the required inventory
management system would be divided into three major phases, the outcome of
our determining the direction of the next. These are discussed in the
following paragraphs.
Phase 1 - Feasibility Study
16.       The primary objective of this phase would be to determine the best
approach to designing and implementing an inventory control system. In
accomplishing this, the suitability for the future of the existing organization
structure and control systems would be examined, together with the possibilities
of computerization. The study would consist of the following major steps:
(a)  investigation of the present organization structure
and flow of management information to determine its
adequacy in the future, paying particular attention to
inventory control;
(b)  outline design of an inventory control system and any
necessary associated changes and additions to the existing
control systems and organization structure in sufficient
detail to accomplish (d). This should include any system
required to improve the capture of statistical data;
(c)  agreement of the proposals in (b) with the Grain Board;
(d)  analysis of the costs and benefits of automating some
or all of the accounting and control systems required in the
future by the Grain Board by considering all types of
computing equipment, including the possibility of hiring
computer time, taking account of the projected growth in
the use of computers in Iraq; and
(e)  recommendation to the Grain Board as to the best way to
proceed and the provision of a work schedule and detailed
cost estimates for the next phase. Agreement of these.



ANNEX 11
Page 6
Phase 2 - Systems Design
17.       The nature of this phase would be dependent on the outcome of
Phase 1. Two cases are considered; one is that all the systems would be
wholly manual and the consultants would be mainly concerned with inventory
control, and the other is that the Grain Board would have its own computer
and the consultants would be concerned with all the systems to be computerized
as well as inventory control. The study would consist of a number of steps;
those which would be required only if a computer is to be acquired are marked
with an asterisk:
(a)  the detailed design of all relevant systems, specifying
the basic flow charts and the methods, frequencies, and
volumes of all inputs and outputs;
(b) the agreement of the systems design with the Grain Board;
(c)  an estimation of the personnel, in terms of numbers and
qualifications, required by the Grain Board to operate
the systems;
(d) the preparation of job specifications for all positions
affected by the agreed changes in the organization
structure;
(e)  a detailed economic justification for the systems;
(f) a recommendation to the Grain Board as to the best way
to proceed and the provision of a work schedule and detailed
cost estimates for Phase 3;
*(g) the recruitment of the data processing manager;
*(h) the specification of the hardware configuration,
including any communications equipment which might be
required; and
*(i) the preparation of tender documents and the evaluation
of the resulting proposals.
Phase 3(a) - Implementation without a Computer.
18.       This phase deals with the implementation of the systems assuming
they are all manual. The work would cover the following main areas:
(a) any necessary recruitment and the supervision of the
training of all staff required to operate the systems;
(b) the specification of all the clerical procedures and
the design of all forms, reports, and files;



ANNEX 11
Page 7
(c) supervision of the running of the systems for the first
two months; and
(d) the full documentation of the systems for both operating
personnel and user management.
Phase 3(b) - Implementation with a Computer
19.       This phase deals with the implementation of the systems assuming
the Grain Board acquires a computer. The work will cover the following main
areas:
(a) recruitment and supervision of the training of
the analysts, program-ers, and computer operators required
in the future by the Grain Board;
(b) preparation of program specifications;
(c)  writing and testing of the programs;
(d) design of all input documents, reports, and
file layouts;
(e) design and implementation of all clerical
procedures associated with the system and the training
of the relevant clerical staff;
(f) establishment of any necessary technical liaison with
the suppliers of the computing equipment and conduct of
the acceptance trials;
(g) performance of systems testing and the supervision of
any possible parallel running;
(h) maintenance of the system for the first six months of full
operation; and
(i) full documentation of the system, including the
associated clerical systems, for both technical and
user personnel.
Time Estimates
20.       The time estimates for Phases 2 and 3 are dependent upon the findings
in Phase 1. Thus, the estimates are the means of the likely range, based on
the information currently available.



ANNEX 11
Page 8
Task      Man-Months
Phase                                      (a)             2
(b)            3
(c)             1
(d)             1
(e)             1
8
Phase 2
Assuming no computer                                10
Assuming a computer                                 48
Phase 3
Assuming no computer                                12
Assuming a computer                                240
Cost Estimates
21.       The following estimates are based on the assumption that the work
would be carried out wholly by an international firm of consultants and
on current billing rates.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 9
ID
Phase 1
Senior Consultant                              6,240
Consultant                                     5,440
Expenses                                       2,900
Supervision, including Expenses                1,750
Total                              16,330
Phase 2
Assuming no computer:
Senior Consultant                         6,240
Consultant                                4,080
Analyst                                   3,120
Expenses                                  3,750
Supervision, including Expenses           1,750
Total                               18,940
Assuming a computer:
Senior Consultant                        17,160
Consultant                               13,600
Analysts                                 28,080
Expenses                                 16,900
Supervision, including Expenses           2,330
Total                               78,070
Phase 3
Assuming no computer:
Senior Consultant                         6,240
Consultant                                5,440
Analyst                                   4,160
Expenses                                  5,100
Supervision, including Expenses           1,750
Total                               22,690



ANNEX 11
Page 10
ID
Assuming a computer:
Senior Consultant                        37,440
Consultant                               32,640
Analysts                                 62,400
Programmers                             116,160
Expenses                                 82,000
Supervision, including Expenses           4,660
Total                             335,300
Total Consultant Costs:
Assuming no computer                          60,000
Assuming a computer                          430,000
Equipment Costs:
Computer - US$760,000 plus installation, short-wave
communication network - US$70,000 plus installation.
Total Automated I.ventory Control System Cost Estimate:
Consultants                          (ID'0C0)       (US$'000)
(Assuming Computer):
Foreign Exchange (75%)                317             1,072
Local (25%)                            107              362
424            1,434
Equipment
(Assuming Computer plus
short-wave communications
system):
Foreign Exchange                      268               906
Local                                   27               91
295              997



ANNEX 12
Page 1
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Proposed Grain Marketing and Pricing Stud21'
1.        As indicated in Annex 2, Government recognize the need for a
new grain marketing and pricing policy to back up present efforts to
revitalize and reorganize agricultural production and marketing in the
country. Because of the complexity of the subject and the lack of factual
information, there is a need to commission an in-depth study of the entire
subject.
Objectives
2.        Principal objectives of the proposed study would be to:
(a) Develop general principles and norms for a grain marketing
and pricing policy that would contribute to achievement of
the national target for the agricultural sector - self-
sufficiency in agricultural production and better distribu-
tion of farm income;
(b) Provide administrative and technical guidelines for the
implementation of such a policy; and
(c) Develop an information system that would ensure continuous
collection of marketing and pricing information so that
Government planners could make decisions on grain marketing
and pricing issues on a more informed and scientific basis
and private traders could operate more efficiently.
Scope
3.        Since production and marketing are integral parts of a grain
pricing policy, it is essential that the proposed study examine these
segments before a balanced grain marketing and pricing policy 2/ be developed.
Thus a study of this nature would encompass the following aspects (see
1/   A list of other works on this subject which might be useful in conducting
the proposed study is presented in Appendix A of this Annex.
2/   This term refers to a policy which attempts to maintain a balance between
the interests of grain producers, consumers and private traders, thereby
assisting the Government in achieving its targets for the agricultural
sector.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
the flow chart (Chart 1), summarisina visually the relationship and inter-
reiationsinp between production, consuription, grain marketing and pricing)
and examine them in depth:
I.   Assessment o' the Production and Consumption Potentials
4.        Grain production in Iraq fluctuates significantly from year to
year. Some of the technical reasons for this are: inadequate rain and
irrigation facilities, lack of drainage and land improvements, inadequate
extension and research services, problems in establishing agricultural
production cooperatives, etc. (see Annex 1 for a detailed discussion).
The Government has recently introduced several measures and policies to
overcome some of these limitations, such as a policy of intensive rather
than extensive farming, encouragement of wider application of improved
inputs (seed, fertilizer, etc.). Hence, the study, after taking into
consideration the existing production limitations and the Government's
on-going efforts and policies to deal with these shortcomings, should
provide detailed short and long-term production estimates, broken down by
areas under different crops, anticipated yield and total production.
5.        Similarly, consumption estimates, broken down between human
and industrial, by major crops and by area - urban and rural - must be
derived after taking into consideration the population growth and the
changing socio-economic conditions in the country (expected changes in
the per capita income and consumption behavior, the impact of higher
education and health services, etc.), a comparison of both these estimates
(production and consumption) would provide the quantity available for
marketing from domestic sources, which in turn would determine the extent
of exports or imports required of different grains. In the event that
imports were required, the study should also provide the Government with
the necessary information to schedule its imports economically and efficiently,
so that an even supply of grain could be maintained.
II.  Revie; of the Grain Marketing Organization
6.        Market Structure - an historical and statistical examination of
the present grain marketing structure should be made with the objective of
providing carefully reasoned and documented answers to questions such as:
What is the magnitude of the total turnover of the grain trade? What is
the most common route by which the majority of domestic grain flows from
producer to consumer? What is the number of private traders involved and
what is the size of their individual turnovers? Is any special role or power
enioyed by the traders in the present grain marketing organization? How
ma_a, cimes does the ownership of grain change hands in marketing for it from
p-roucer :> consumer? To whom is the majority of grain sold by the private
traudes?  ','.-at is the role of the Government and the impact of its policies
Cn       7'. la'ing system?  'What are the canacities of the grain storage and
. S cili.ies (both under the private and public sectors)?  Are
ra ic,ue L? Is the present market information service well organized
an_  rfeccive?  Are the existing grain standards adequate? etc.  Such a



ANNEX 12
Page 3
review of the market structure would provide empirically-tested guidelines
which would serve as a basis for developing a balanced grain marketing
system in the country.
7.        Efficiency of Markets - the efficiency of the existing grain
marketing system should be examined from three aspects:
1.   The element of imperfect competition; and
2.   The basic cost of marketing (transportation, storage,
handling and distribution).
If marketing is by and large competitive and distribution efficient,
oligopolistic profits will be insignificant and the basic cost of marketing
will be the lowest possible. Contrary to this, if grain markets do not
operate efficiently in price signalling and there are large differences
between producer and consumer prices, both over time and space, this might
indicate that these are caused by elements of imperfect competition, thereby
raising the cost of marketing.
8.        Oligopoly is a timeless concept and its causes are many.  For
example, it may result from market power being exerted by certain traders,
as in Iraq, where private traders enjoy a strong bargaining position when
purchasing the small landowners' share of the crop and are thus placed in a
position of market power. Oligopolistic gains generally exist in situations
of shortages and wide fluctuations in production, resulting in an uneven
supply level and where there is a lack of government participating in main-
taining an even supply of grain as well as a lack of an adequate market
intelligence service and storage facilities.
9.        Hence it is essential to examine the available historical and
statistical evidence to ascertain the extent of the activities of private
traders and the possible inefficiencies and inadequacies of the different
segments of the existing grain marketing system (transportation, handling
and storage facilities). Moreover, it is also necessary to analyse whether
the existing grain marketing organization is capable of handling rapid
increases in agricultural production expected to result from new technological
advances in agriculture, or whether alternative distribution arrangements
should be made in the future. Any such change would, however, need careful
analysis because of its impact on factors crucial in maintaining an efficient
marketing system in the country.
10.       In brief, this section should provide answers to questions such
as: how competitive is private trade? What are the costs of providing
various functions, such as transporting, storing and distribution? What
is the structure of private trade and how can it be improved? What are
the effects of various types of regulations on the mode of operation and
the efficiency of the private trade? These are questions which have received
little systematic attention in the past and now, when the Government has
decided to introduce a development-oriented policy, these aspects must be
examined in depth and empirically tested.



ANNEX 12
Page 4
III. A Balanced Grain Marketing System
11.       A statistical and well-documented review of the nature described
above would serve as a basis for developing a framework for a balanced
grain marketing organization, which would safeguard the interests of private
traders, producers and consumers, thereby leading to the minimization of
marketing costs and would be flexible enough to accommodate future rapid
increases in grain production. It should also determine the prerequisites
for the successful implementation of such a system. In other words it
should enumerate the requirements of the various segments of the marketing
system, such as: the nature of the marketing channel for the grain trade,
the role and share of the private traders and the government (the Grain
Board) in the grain trade, the government's policy concerning reserve
supply, capacities of grain storage, handling, transportation and processing
facilities (both under the public and private sectors) and the development
of an adequate marketing information service and a balanced grain pricing
policy. Among these the grain pricing policy is the most crucial and complex,
since it affects all other factors in the marketing system. A complete
discussion of this subject is not feasible until detailed reviews have been -
completed. Nevertheless it would be useful to raise some of the basic
issues which must be analyzed by a study of this nature in developing a
balanced grain pricing policy.
IV. A Balanced Grain Pricing Policy
12.       This section would first of all examine and establish the nature
of the existing agricultural price policy - in particular whether or not the
interests of the agricultural producers have generally been placed after
the interests of consumers. Such an analysis would assist in developing
a new agricultural pricing policy, with the objective of: (1) accelerating
the growth of agricultural output as a whole; (2) accelerating or
decelerating the growth of output of individual crops, or in the context
of national planning, to steer the crop-mix according to target; and (3)
maintaining a balance between the interests of agricultural producers and
consumers.  The development of such a pricing policy, however, faces
numerous conceptual problems which need detailed examination and empirical
testing.
13.       For example, adjustments in the crop mix and variations in
the marketed supply of food crops are related to the movement of inter-
crop price relatives while the growth of aggregate output is related to the
movement of prices of manufactured inputs and of consumption goods purchased
by the farmers. Thus the particular prices to be regulated depend upon the
relative importance of these objectives. In order to formulate an effective
grain pricing policy, it is therefore necessary to have empirical information
about the degree of responsiveness of supply (responsiveness of single-
crop acreage, responsivenec3 of market supply and responsiveness of aggregate
output) to the relevant price movements. The responsiveness, of course, will
differ from region to region, which means that elasticity of supply must be
est!rmated separately for different regions and periods.



ANNEX 12
Page 5
14.       Similarly, a decision has to be made concerning the number of
commodities to be supported by an agricultural price policy. Also it is
necessary to test empirically the manner in which guarantees are likely to
produce the intended effect on the growth of output. Another issue which
needs careful examination is whether it would be preferable to subsidize the
package inputs rather than to guarantee minimum prices of outputs. If the
produce prices are raised, farmers may or may not take to improved culti-
vation. They may simply spend the extra income on consumption and government
expenditure and support will be wasted. However, if inputs are subsidized,
the benefit of government expenditure can be derived by the farmers only in
proportion to their use of improved inputs. These propositions are obviously
valid as far as they go, but they cannot be taken to mean that input price
subsidization is a complete substitute for produce price guarantees. In fact
both are needed as complementary instruments of policy. However, the exact
balance must be determined by the study in view of its findings.
15.       Another important aspect to be dealt with by the study is the
manner in which the producers' and consumers' interests would be safeguarded.
Agricultural price regulations necessarily involve the balancing of con-
flicting producer/consumer interests. Even when the importance of raising
to some extent the relative price of agricultural price outputs as an
inducement to agricultural growth is fully realized, the study should,
however, not overlook the comparable importance of setting limits to
increases in the cost of living. The chosen policy must, therefore, meet
both needs to some degree. In other words, a policy to restrict increases
in urban prices should accompany producer price supports.
V. Benefits of the Study
16.       The study should enumerate and quantify the benefits expected
to result from the establishment of a new balanced grain marketing and
pricing system, in particular its contribution to the national targets of
the agricultural sector, i.e. how such a new system would assist in increasing
agricultural production and promoting better distribution of income on one
hand and in increasing farmers' incomes on the other.
VI. Conclusion
17.       In order to develop a balanced grain marketing and pricing policy,
there is need for a large collection of data and complex analysis before
a growth-oriented policy can be developed. In this context, it should
also be noted that a balanced grain pricing policy alone will not revolution-
ize the growth of the agricultural sector in Iraq. The transformation
cannot be brought about only or mainly by price movements. Nevertheless
the techno-organizational efforts can be retarded or accelerated by price
movements. A balanced grain pricing policy can speed up the diffusion of
innovations, the absorption of new inputs, the utilization of idle capacity
and even institutional adjustments. Unfavorable price movements and market-
ing arrangements can slow down or arrest all these processes.



ANNEX 12
Page 6
Preliminary Outline of the Proposed Study
18.       To meet the objectives stated, the proposed study should deal
with the following general subject areas:
I.  NATIONAL TARGLTS FOR AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND GOVERNMENT ECONOMIC
POLICIES AIfm PLAN.
II. PRODUCTION ESTIMATES
A.   Physical and Techno-Organization Characteristics
(1) Climate and soils
(2)  Land area suitable for different crops - by Muhafadha
(3)  Land and water use management
(4)  Agricultural inputs - farm machinery, fertilizer, and such
(5)  Land reform and cooperative movement.
(6)  Agricultural research and extension service
(7)  Development of livestock and other agro-industries
B.   Government Policies and Programs and Technical Absorbtive Capacity.
C.   Production Projections - by Muhafadha and by Crops.
III. CONSUMPTION ESTIMATES
A.   Population - Rural and Urban
B.   Socio-Economic Changes - Per Capita Income and such
C.   Consumption Projections
(1) Rural - Human and industrial by different crops
(2) Urban - Human and industrial by different crops
IV. MARKETABLE QUANTIY AND EXPORT-IMPORT REQUIREMENTS BY DIFFERENT CROPS
V.   REVIEW OF EXISTING MARKETING ORGANIZATION
A.   Geographical Setting and Market Structure
(1) Private Traders - Numbers, their share in the total grain
market, their special role and powers.



ANNEX 12
Page 7
(2) Government-Owned Grain Board - Its share and role in the
grain trade.
(3) Grain Processors - Private and Government - their capacities.
(4) Channels of grain flow
(5) Grain storage capacity - private and public
(6) Marketing intelligence service
(7) Grain standards
B.   Market Efficiency
(1) The element of imperfect competition
(2) The cost of marketing (transporation, storage, and handling)
VI. A BALANCED GRAIN MARKETING SYSTEM
A.   A Conceptual Framework
(1) Government's share in the total grain trade and its role.
(2) Private trader's share in the total grain trade and their role.
B.   Implementation Prerequisites
(1) Development of cooperatives
(2) Adequate grain storage, handling, transportation, and
processing facilities
(3) Adequate marketing information service
VII. A BALANCED GRAIN PRICING POLICY
(1) A conceptual framework and its special characteristics
(2) Mechanism for its implementation
VIII.THE IMPACT OF NEW BALANCED GRAIN MARKETING AND PRICING SYSTEM ON
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TARGETS.
Staff Required for the Proposed Study
19.       Consultant Staff.  It is estimated that approximately 24 man-months
would be required to complete the study as outlined above, with the following
consultant staff:



ANNEX 12
Page 8
(a) Permanent Staff. Each of the experts listed below would be
engaged on the study for a period of six months on a full-time
basis:
(i) Senior Economist - to head the study, with a strong
background in pricing and marketing, either involved
in teaching or working in Government or a combination
or both; preferably, he should have experience as a
member of a price commission or have been responsible
for developing and implementing principles and norms
for an agricultural pricing and marketing policy in a
developing country.
(ii) Agricultural Marketing Economist - with considerable
experience and training in the analysis and projection
of agricultural production and in analysis and design
of centralized public foodgrain pricing, marketing, and
distribution systems in a country that has small private
farmers and cooperatives.
(iii) General Economist - with a strong background in statistics,
econometrics, and economic theory related to agricultural
pricing nd marketing and considerable experience in the
analysis and projection of consumpiton, market, and price
requirements.
(b) Part-time Staff
(i) One or Two Agricultural Experts (four man-months) - with
considerable experience in analyxing the constraints and
potentials of agricultural production, specifically in
regard to production organizations (cooperatives and
such), climate, soil, extension service, agricultural
research and livestock. A knowledge of land and water
use management is also required.
(ii) Demographer (two man-months) - with experience in the
projection of population and nutritional requirements.
20.       Local Staff.  It is expected that the Grain Board will hire two
economists for economic and marketing analysis. They should be assigned to
work full-time on the study from its inception since their involvement
would assist in the liaison between consultants and the Government depart-
ments involved. It would also allow them to gain in-depth knowledge of
the subject, which would assist them later in implementing the findings of
the study.
Cost of the Study
21.       It is estimated that the total cost of the study would be about
US$300,000 of which US$200,000 would be in foreign exchange and US$100,000
would be in local expenditure. This takes into consideration salaries,



ANNEX 12
Page 9
cost of living allowances and other expenses in the field, overhead costs,
report preparation, and other incidental costs. The salary scale (excluding
overhead and other expenditures) for expatriate consultants has been
assumed to be as follows:
US$ per day
Senior Economist                               200
Agricultural Marketing Economist               150
General Economist                              130
Agricultural Expert                            160
Demographer                                    150
Implementation of Study Results
22.       Upon completion of the study the consultants would be retained to
assist the Government in the implementation of the recommended marketing and
pricing policy framework and the market information system. The implementation
phase is estimated to last about one year. During this period, the consultants
would also assist the newly-hired economists in setting up the project evalua-
tion system described in para 5.07 of this report. The cost of the implementa-
tion phase of the consultants' task is estimated at US$100,000 equally divided
between foreign exchange and local expenditure.






ANNEX 12
Appendix A
Page 1
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
A Selected Bibliography on Grain Marketing and Pricing
(1) Chan, 1962. F. Chan, "A Preliminary Study of the Supply Response of
Estates between 1948 and 1959" Malayan Economic Review (Oct. 1962).
(2) Eicher and Witt, 1964. C. Eicher and L. Witt, eds., Agriculture in
Economic Development (New York: McGraw-Hill, 1964).
(3) FAO/ECAFE, 1958. Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
and Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East, Food and Agricul-
tural Price Policies in Asia and the Far East (Bangkok, 1958).
(4) FAO, 1965. FAQ, The State of Food and Agriculture 1965 (Rome, 1965).
(5) Falcon, 1964. W.P. Falcon, "Farmer Response to Price in a Subsistence
Economy: The Case of West Pakistan," American Economic Review, 54
(Proceedings):580-91 (May 1964).
(6) Georgescu-Roegen, 1960. N. Georgescu-Roegen, "Economic Theory and
Agrarian Economics, "Oxford Economic Papers, 12:1-40 (Feb. 1960).
Reprinted with omissions in Eicher and Witt, 1964, 144-69.
(7) Hendrix, 1964. W.E. Hendrix, "Factors Associated with Differences in
Levels and Rates of Change in Agricultural Output in Underdeveloped
Countries," paper presented to the M.I.T. Conference on Agricultural
Productivity (1964, mimeo). See also U.S. Dept. of Agriculture,
Economic Research Service, Changes in Agriculture in 26 Developing
Nations, 1948 to 1963, Foreign Agricultural Economic Report No. 27
(1965).
(8) Hussain, 1964.  S. M. Hussain, "A Note on Farmer Response to Price in
East Pakistan," Pakistan Development Review, 4:93-106 (Spring 1964).
(9) Inter-American Committee, 1963. Inter-American Committee for Agricul-
tural Development, Inventory of Information Basic to the Planning of
Agricultural Development in Latin America (Washington: Pan-American
Union, Oct. 1963).
(10) Johnson, 1954. D.G. Johnson, Agricultural Price Policy and International
Trade, International Finance Section, Department of Economics,
Princeton University (Princeton, June 1954).



ANNEX 12
Appendix A
Page 2
(11) Jones, 1962. G. T. Jones, "The Response of the Supply of Agricultural
Products in the United Kingdom to Price," Farm Economist, 10:1-28(1962).
(12) Kahan, 1964. A. Kahan, "The Collective Farm System in Russia: Some
Aspects of Its Contribution to Soviet Economic Development," in
Eicher and Witt, 1964, 251-71.
(13) Khan and Chowdhury, 1962. A.R. Khan and A.H.M.N. Chowdhury, "Marketable
Surplus Function: A Study of the Behaviour of West Pakistan Farmers,"
Pakistan Development Review, 2:354-76 (Autumn 1962).
(14) Krishna, 1962. R. Krishna, "A Note on the Elasticity of the Marketable
Surplus of a Subsistence Crop," Indian Journal of Agricultural Economics,
17:79-84 (July/Sept. 1962).
(15) Krishna, 1963. R. Krishna, "Farm Supply Response in India-Pakistan: A
Case Study of the Punjab Region," Economic Journal, 73:477-87 (Sept.
1963).
(16) Krishna, 1965. R. Krishna, "The Marketable Surplus Puncticn for a
Subsistence Crop," Economic Weekly, 17:309-20 (Bombay, Feb. 1965).
(17) Lele, 1971. Uma Lele, Food Grain Mark6ting in India (Cornell University
Press, 1971).
(t8) Myint, 1964..  H. Myint, The Economics of the Developing Countries (London:
Hutchinson, 1964).
(19) Nerlove, 1958.  M. Nerlove, The Dynamics of Supply:  Estimation of
Farmers' Response to Price (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins Press, 1958).
(20) Nurkse, 1958.  R. Nurkse, "Trade Fluctuations and Buffer Policies of
Low-Income Countries," Kyklos, 11:141-54 (Fasc. 2, 1958).
(21) OEEC, 1961. Organization for European Economic Cooperation, Ministerial
Committee for Agriculture and Food, Trends in Agricultural Policies
Since 1955., Reports on Agricultural Policies in Europe and North
America No. 5 (P-aris, July 1961).
(22) Ohkawa and. Rosovsky, 1960. K. Ohkawa and H. Rosovsky, "The Role of
Agriculture in Modern Japanese Economic Development," Economic
Development and Cultural Change, 9 (part 2):43-68 (Oct. 1960). Re-
printed with corrections in Eicher and Witt, 1964, 45-69.
(23) Perkins, 1964. D.R.. Perkins, "Centralization and Decentralization in
Mainland China's Agriculture (1949-1962)," Quarterly Journal of
Economics, 78:208-37 (May 1964).
(24) Stern, 1962.  R.M. Stern, "The Price Responsiveness of Primary Producers,"
Review-of Economics and Statistics-, 44:202-07 (May 1962>.



IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
GRAIN MARKETING AND PRICING STUDY OUTLINE
| 1Sf GRAIN UAAKf 71NO AND PIC~NO STUOY|
l~~~~~






ANINEX 13
Page   1
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Silo Personnel Training
General
1.        The proposed project would add Ilterminal silos, 3 gathering
silos, and a port transfer terminal silo to the Grain Board's present system
of 18 silos. Providing manpower for this substantial increase in operations
would require a well-planned and well-executed recruiting and training
program, but, fortunately, the Grain Board is currently well-staffed and it
is now carrying out an "in-house" training program for personnel that will_
operate and manage the silos presently under construction. In addition, the
Grain Board has required the suppliers of mechanical-electrical silo equipment
to provide operational and maintenance training. The staff of project
facilities would receive both "in-house" training by the Grain Board and
training by the equipment suppliers as well as a four-week course conducted
by international experts for the managers of the new silos. Since as a
result of the project the Grain Board will become more active in the purchase
and storage of domestic production, a provision would be made to provide
specialized training abroad for personnel responsible for grain grading and
sanitation. The overall direction and coordination of the training would be
the responsibility of the Chief Engineer, Technical Department.
2.        Candidates for silo superintendents would be recruited approximately
one year before the start-up of the proposed facilities. They would spend
a six-month orientation period in the silos of the first project and, after
becoming thoroughly familiar with all aspects, they would be given the silo
manager's course (para 1). The equipment supplier under the proposed project
would be responsible for coordinating and supervising this aspect of the
training. Trainees would also be given general instruction on the maintenance
and operation of the silo equipment by the equipment suppliers. In the six-
month period before silo facilities began operations, the new silo superin-
tendents would play an active role in supervising the final equipment installa-
tion and start-up.
Maintenance Engineers
3.        Maintenance engineers would be recruited about six months before
start-up of the proposed silo facilities. They would receive intensive
orientation and on-the-job training in the silo facilities of the first
project for a three-month period, followed by advanced training by the
supplier of the equipment for proposed silo facilities.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
Silo Operational and Maintenance Crew
4.        Foremen operators, operators, assistant operators, and maintenance
men would be recruited months before the proposed silo facilities began
operations and would undergo training in groups of 15 men each. Lectures
would be given on the working of the whole silo complex, the part of indivi-
dual silos in the complex, and silo flow pattern, as well as the operation
and maintenance of individual machines. This classroom training would also
include lectures on infestation control and intra-silo communications and
sequence control.
5.        The practical training would take place in a silo.  Trainees would
be shown around and the function of each department and its relation to other
departments would be explained. The instructor-in-charge would also demons-
trate the working of different machines and provide actual operating instruc-
tions. Trainees would become familiar with all the basic equipment and spend
two weeks working with the regular operators on equipment similar to the type
they would use in the new facilities.
6.        In addition to the training they would be given by the Grain Board,
personnel would receive thorough instruction by the mechanical-electrical
equipment supplier during the start-up and running-in period of the new
facilities. The supplier would include a thorough review and explanation
of the operational and maintenance manuals he would provide as part of the
silo work contract.
Silo Superintendent's Course
7.        A team of experts would come to Iraq to train the new silo
superintendents in all aspects of silo management. Such a course would
consist of:
(a) Personnel management for the silo manager;
(b)  Maintenance management "   "   "
(c)  Sanitation management  "   "   "
(d)  Inventory management
(e) Expense control (responsibility accounting) for the silo manager;
(f) Engineering economy (cost-benefit analysis) for the silo manager; and
(g) Silo operation, including drying and cleaning.
Two experienced people, who are also good instructors, should be able to cover
these subjects adequately in about four weeks, with appropriate materials
and "on-the-job" demonstrations. Silo superintendents would participate
on a full-time basis. The course would be given twice for two consecutive
years, for groups of 10 to 15 each. The silo superintendents of the present
silos would also participate.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
8.        Estimated Cost of Course.  The estimated cost per 15 student
course is as follows:
Local         Foreign          Total
------------  Us -
Instructors Fees                      -             6,000           6,000
Instructors Transportation            300           2,700           3,000
Instructors Subsistence             1,800             -             1,800
Course Material (US$50/student)        -              750             750
Student Transportation and
Subsistence (US$400/student)       6,000             _             6,000
8,100          9,450          17,550
The total cost estimate for the four courses which would be given is US$70,000
of which about US$30,000 equivalent represents costs in local currency and_
US$40,000 costs in foreign exchange.
Specialized Grain Grading and Sanitation Training
9.        Two of the Grain Board's personnel responsible for the definition
and implementation of advanced grain standards and grading system would
receive specialized training in this subject abroad. Ineaddition two of the
personnel responsible of grain sanitation in the Grain Board would be given
specialized training abroad in advanced grain cleaning, drying and fumigation
techniques. The estimated cost of foreign training for the four staff
members for about three months each would be about US$30,000,in foreign
exchange.






IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
PROJECT SCHEDULE
CALENDAR YEAR .TT  T, 1TT T                                                    I F1 1T TF   T IT
1973        1974        1975         1976        1977        1978         1979        1980
I ENGINEERING                                                                      .      .                  .
CONSU LTANTS
WARRANT
II SILO CONSTRUCTION
IMPLEMENTATION
III INVENTORY MANAGEMENT               _           _|                                  l 
SYSTEM
IV PRICE/MARKETING STUDY
______________   I                IMPLEMENTATION
V  GRADING STANDARDS                     .       - .I.-I.I||||||||
AND SYSTEMPROGRAM
VI TRAINING PROGRAM
world Bank 77120






IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
SILO CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
Calender Year        1973             1974            1975             1976             1977            1978              1979
ENGINEERING CONSULTANT
Contract
Field Information
Approval Layouts
Preliminary Estimates
Design
Specifications & contracts
Tenders
Review Proposals
Award contract
On-site Inspection                                                                    m_               _u_ _ _ _                                  _ _
SILO CONTRACTORS
Inspect sites for layout
Move-in (Hdq. Office)
Recruit local personnel
Move foreign
Move-in (On site)
Clear site & prepare
Build field facilities
Excavation                                                                              a
Pile driving
Receive materials/const. equip.
build forms/Place re-bar
Pour foundations
Set-up slipforms/Prep. re-bar
Check materials
Start-up/Pin-off
Set-up slipform - Headhouse                                                                         _                                    _
Check materials
Start-up/Pin-off
Strip forms & prep. roof
Pour roof
Floor forms/PourWARNYARNT
Set machinery/Maintenance                                                                           *I;    W       *RF AN- Y   I                   IXII1  III IhN I
.._ _A_f_f_iL _ _ _ _ _ L _ _ _ LoI1-1 _ _ _ __Il
World Bank -7719






ANNEX 15
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Silo Construction Cost Estimates
1.        The cost estimates for civil works are based on 1972 material and
labor costs in Iraq. Machinery not available in the country has been priced
on the basis of current quotes and estimates given by suppliers in the U.S.A
and Europe; crating and shipping fees have been added.
2.        The cost of the individual silos were estimated separately and the
cost simmary for the three types of silos -- terminal, gathering, and
extension -- are shown in Table 1. A typical detailed cost estimate for
a terminal silo appears in Table 2 and a typical detailed cost estimate
for a gathering silo appears in Table 3. The cost of silo extensions were
based on the equivalent cost of building a gathering silo for the respective
size. The individual silo estimates take into account the varying soil
conditions throughout the country, the type of transport modes to be served,
and the requirement for driers in the south and central regions.
3.        Cost estimates for the import handling capacity to be added at
Basrah and the import transfer silo to be built there are given in Table 4.
The estimate for the expansion at Basrah was based on tentative figures
given by the supplier of the present equipment and includes provision for
the dock extension.
4.        Cost estimates have been revised to take into account the currency
realignments through March, 1973.






ANNE5X 15
Table 1
Page 1
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PRJECT
Silo Cost Estimates
Foreign                        Foreign
Terminal Silos                Local  Exchange  Total          Lcal  Excage   Total
------- (ID   ov-------        -----O       Ius    0o) -------
1. Shilkhan (30,000 tons)
Civil Works               611.5   262.1    873.6         2,066.D   M85.4   2,g51.4
Mechanical/Electrical       38    2533       287.1         114.1   856.2       970.
1.  Sub-total          6415.3      l5.    1,16.7         2180.1  1,714.6   3, 921.?
2. Sinjar (20,000 tons)
Civil Works               313.1   134.2    447.3 '    1,057.8   453.4   1,511.2
Mechanical/Electrical      22.1   165.9    188.0            74.8   560.5       635 3
2. Sub-total              I3. 37T00          635.3       1,3.  1,013.9  --2-,6 5
3. Shircat (40,000 tons)
Civil Works              .496.7   212.9    709.6         1,678.0   719.2    2,397.2
Mechanical/Electrical      3.8    241.7    275.5           114.2   816.9       931.1
3. Sub-total                       45.6    985.1         1,792.2  1,536.1    3,328.3
i. Tuz (50,000 tons)
Civil Works               546.a   234.4    781.2         1,847.4   791.7    2,639.1
Mechanical/Electrical      42.1   346.6    388.7           1i42.2  1 171.0   19313.2
4. Sub-total              5        581.Q   1,169.9       1,989.6  L,962.7   3,952.3
5. Baghdad I (80,000 tons)
Civil Works               209.0   389.6  .1,?98.6        3,071.0  1,316.2   iL,387.2
Mechanical/Electrical     346.2   388.7    734.9         1 169.7 1,313.8   2,483.5
5. Sub-total            1,255.2    77BT   2,033.5                 2,630.0    6,870.7
6. Telafar (60,000 tons)
Civil Works               580.4   248.$    829.2         1,961.1   840.5   2,801.6
Mechanical/Electrical      34.2   256.9    291.1           115.4   867.8       983.2
6. Sub-total              El74W    505.7   II26.3        2.076.5  15708.3   3,74.8'
7. Baquba (28,000 tons)
Civil Works                395.8   169.6    565.4        1,337-1    573.1   1,910.2
Mechanical/Electrical       6      281.0    317.2          122.3   949.4   1,071.7
7.  Sub-total                      45-o3- L. 82.6 1, 1459.  1 ,522.5 2,981. 



ANNEX 15
Table 1
Page 2
IRAQ
GRAIE STORAGE PROJECT
Silo Cost Estimates
Foreign                       Foreign
Local  Exchange   Total       Local  Ecchange   Total
------  (IDOO- -000   -        -      (US-000 )---
Terminal Silos
8.  Sulaimaniya (25,000 tons)
Civil Works                    355.2      152.3   507.5   1200.1        514.3  1714.4
Mechanical/Electrical           23.4      175.e2   198.6      78.9      592.3   671.2
8.  Sub-total                  77876      327.5   706.1    1279.0      1106.6  23656
9.  Khanakin (20,000 tons)
Civil iorks                    307.2      131.7  43869    1038.1        444.9  1483.0
I4echn.nical/Electrical         27.3      207.3   234.6       92.2      700.2   792.4
9.  Sub-total                  3 77       339.0   673 .5    1150i3     1145.i  2275.4
10.  Baghdad II (85,000 tons)
Civil Works                    926.8      397.2'  1324.0  3,131.2      1342.0  4473.2
Mechanical/Electrical           44.0      335.7   379.7      148.9      1134.6  1283.5
10. Sub-total                  970.8      732.9  1703.7    3280.1      2476.6  5756.7
11. Hilla II (30,000 tons)
Civil Works                    431.l      184.8   615.9    1456.6       624 .2  2080.8
Mechanical/Electrical           30.1      228.2   258.3      101.7      771.3   873.0
11. Sub-total                  461.2        T5 0   57472    1T5583     1395.5  2953g8
Civil Works                  5873.6    2517.6   8391.2  19844.4        8504.9 28349.3
Mechanical/Electrical          673.2     288 .5 3553.7    2274.4       9734.0 12008.4
Total Terminal Silos               6546.5     5398.1 11944k9  22118.6    18 38v  40357.7
Gathering Silos
12.  Diwaniya (16,000 tons)
Civil Works                    360.1      154.4   514.5    1216.6       521.4  1738.0
M.echanical/Electrical          23.1      182.6   205.7       78.1      617.2   695.3
12.  Sub-total                 3d3.2      337.0   720.2    1294.7      1138.6  2433.3
13.  Duhok (12,000 tons)
Civil Works                    194.9       83.2   277.2      655.3      280.9   936.2
Mechanical/Electrical           17.3      132.3   149.6       58.6      447.0  505.6
13. Sub-total                  2.2155                        713.9      727.9 TZ144T
14.  Suwaira (8,000 tons)
Civil Works                    225.7       96.8   322.5      762.9      326.9  1089.8
M.echanical/Nlectrical          25.1      198.8   223.9       84.4      672.2   756.6
1..  Slb-total                 958        295.6  546.T       847,3      999.1  T1877W
Civil Wiorks                   779.6      334.4  1114.2    2634.8      1129.2  3764.0
1'iechanical/1Tlectrical        65.5      513.7   579.2      221.1     1736.4  1957.5
Total Gathering Silos               545.3      5484  1693.4    2855.9       2865.6  5721.5
-                               -          -_



ANNEX 15
Table 1
Page 3
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Silo Cost Estimates
Foreign                     Foreign
Local Exchanae  Total       Local Exchan e  Total
(fl:'O      O O)         --Us '000)-------
3ilos Zxtensions
15. Amara (8,000 tons)                285.8    122.5   408.3      965.6    413.8  1379.4
Civi2 Works
Mechanical/Electrical             24.6    197.6   222.2       83.2    667.8   751.0
15. Sub-total                    370Jj    3        630.5    104U.3   1T3lW 2130.4
16.  Kut (12,000 tons)
Civil Works                      232.0     99.5  331.5       783.9    336.0  1119.9
Mechanical/.lectrical             27.2    217.1   2!W4.3      92.0   733.3   825.3
16. Sub-total                    259.2    316.6    57        875.9   1069.3 --1945.2
17. E;rbil (8,000 tons)
Civil Works                      192.7     82.6   275.3      651.0    279.0   930.0
Mechanical/alectrical             16.3    110.9   127.2       54.9    375.0   429.9
17.  Sub-total                   209.0   193.5  402,5        705.9    6574.0  1359.-9
16.  Hilla I (o,000 tons)
Civil Works                      206.1     88.3   294.4      696.3    29b.4  994.7
Mechanical/Electrical             19.2    143.0   162.2       65.0  -483.0   548.0
18. Sub-total                    225.3    231.3  456.6       76.3    71.4  1542.7
Civil Works                      916.6    392.9  1309.5    3P96.8  1327.2  4424.0
Mechanical/Electrical             87.3    668.6   755.9Q    295.1   2259.1  2554.2
Total Silo Extensions                1003.9   1061.5  2065.4   3391.9    3586.3  6978.2
Import Facilities
19.  UIm Qasr (20,000 tons)
Civil -Works                     772.8    331.2  1104.0    2613.9   1120.2  3734.1
Mechanical/;3lectrical            41.0    285.0   326.0      139.0    962.0  1101.0
19.  Sub-total                   1137.    616.2  1430.0    Z75Z-    2U-2  4635.1
20.  Basrah
Civil Works                      280.0    120.0   400.0    .945.8    405.4  1351.2
Mlechanical/3]aectrical           20.0      80.0   100.0      67.6    270.2   337.8
20.  Sub-total                   300.0              500.0      3.     675.  T9.
Civil vorkcs                    1052.8    451.2  150L.0    3559.7   1525.6  5085.3
i.!echanical/Electrical           61.0    365.0   426.0      206.6   1232.2  1438.8
TroQal Import Facilities             1113A8    f16.2  1930.0    3766.3   2177.5  6524.1
Total: Civil dorks              B622.L'  3696.1 12318.9   29135.7  12486.9 41622.6
TALotal                         91echanical/5lectrical  7-5  27 7  53917.    299721 2  7494.7 6179581.5
TOTAL                                9509.8   A 23-9 17633.7   32132.9  27448,6 59581.5






ANNEX 15
Table 2
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Terminal Silo, Typical Cost Estimate
Foreign                     Foreign
local  Exchange  Total      Local Exchange  Total
- (ID '000) -(--   ------ US$ 000-
Sinjar Terminal
Silo (20,000 tons)
Civil Work                    165.3      89.0   254.3     557.6.   301.8   859.4
Machinery and Electrical       16.8    123.8   14o.6        56.8    41h.4   475.2
Bag Unloading:
Civil Work                      6.8        -      6.8      22.8        -     22.8
Equipment and Electrical        o.6       5.4     6.0        2.0     18.3    20.3
Truck Dumper:
Civil Work                      5.8        -      5.8      19.6        -     19.6
Equipment and Electrical        1.5      12.8    14.3        5.1     43.3    48.4
Truck Scale:
Civil liork                     5.6        -      5.6      18.8        -     18.8
Equipment and Electrical        0.5       3.3     3.8        1.7     11.2    12.9
Bagging House:
Civil Work                      2.5        -      2.5        a.6       -       6.6
Equipment and Electrical        1.2       9.1    10.3        4.1     30.8    34.9
Bagged Grain Storage:
Civil Work                     34.5        -     34b.5    116.4        -    116.4
Equipment and Flectrical        1.5      11.4    12.9        5.1     3b.5    43.6
Foundation                        38.4       4.3    42.7      129.6     14.6   144.2
Ancillary Works:
Office (Lab and Scale Ofc.)    7.1        6.0    13.1       24.2     20.1    44.3
Shop, Stock Room and Canteen   b.0       14.0    22.0       27.4     47.5    74.9
Site Improvements              39.1      21.0    60.1      132.t     69.4   202.2
Total                  35.2    3O!3.1   635.3    1132.6   10123.9  21L46.5






ANNEX 15
Table 3
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Gathering Silo, Typical Cost Estimate
Foreign                            Foreign
Local   Exchange   Total          Local   Exchange   Total
--       ID000) --------          ---------(USOOO0)---
Sxwaira Silo
Gathering Silo (8,000 tons)
Civil Work                       67.7      51.0     118.7          229.1    172.0      401.1
Machinery and Electrical         9.1       93.0     102.1           30.9    314.2      345.1
Bag Unloading:
Civil Work                       5.8         -        5.8           19.6       -        19.6
Equipment and Electrical         0.5        3.3       3.8            1.7      11.2    - 12.9
Truck Scale:
Civil Work                       3.2         -        3.2           10.8       -        10.8
Equipment and Electrical         2.9        3.3       6.2            9.7      11.2      20.9
Bagging House:
Civil Work                       1.6         -        1.6            5.5       -         5.5
Equipment and Electrical         1.0        5.4       6.4            3.0      18.7      21.7
Bagged Grain Storage:
Civil Work                      16.2         -       16.2           54.8       -        54.8
Equipment and Electrical         0.5        2.8       3.3            1.5       9.5      11.0
Foundation                           52.5       5.9       58.4         177.4      20.0     197.4
Dryer:
Civil Work                      5.9         -        5.9           20.1       -        20.1
Equipment and Electrical        4.2       32.1      36.3           14.2    108.5      122.7
Barge Load and Unload:
Civil Work                     24.5        3.6      28.1           82.9     12.0       94.9
Equipment and Electrical        6.9       58.9      65.8           23.4    198.9      222.3
Ancillary Works:
Office (Lab and Scale)           7.3       5.3       12.6          24.4      18.0      42.4
Shop, Stock room and Canteen   7.2        13.5      20.7           24.2      45.6      69.8
Site Improvements              33.8       17.5      51.3          114.1      59.3     173.4
Total               250.8      295.6     546.4          847.3    999.1   1:846.4



ANNEX l5
Table 4
IRAQ
GRAIN SIORAGE PROJECT
Estimate for Transfer Silo at Umn Qasr and Basrah Added Capacity
ID'OOO                             US$ '000
Foreign                           Foreign
Local    Exchange   Total         Local    Exchange   Total
1.   Um Qasr
Silo: 20,000 tons
Civil Works                   251.3      107.7    359.0         850.5       364.5    1,215.0
Machinery and
Electrical
(600 tons/hr.)                 24-.0     153.0    177.0          81.0       517.0      598-.o
Dock:
Civil Works                   486.5      208.5   695.0         1645.1       705.0    2,350.1
Machinery and
Electrical                    17.0       132.0    149.0          58.0       445.0      503.0
Ancillary
Facilities:               _                S 015.0        50.0  118.3       5.0.7     169.0
Un Qasr Total                813.8       616.2  1,430         2,752.9    2,082,2    4,835.1
2.   Basrah
Pier Extension and
Increase in Handling
Capacity (600 tons/hr.)
Basrah Total -               300.0       200.0    500.0       1,013.4       675.6    1,689.0
TOTAL                1,113.8       816.2 1  930-0       3,766.3    2,757.8  1



ANT-]EX 16
GRADI STORAGE PROJECT
3stimated Schedule of Bank Disbursement
(13$' ooo)
Bank Financial
Year               Quarter          Disbursed          Undisbursed
1973/74                 1                                  40,000
2                 100               39,900
3                 100               39,800
4                 100               39,700
1974/75                 1                 100               39,600
2                 100               39,500
3                 100               39,400
4               2,287               37,133
1975/76                 1               2,287               34,826
2               2,288               32,538
3               2,288               30,250
4               2,375               27,875
1976/77                 1               2,375               25,500
2               2,375               23,125
3               2,375               20,750
4               2,475               18,275
1977/78                 1               2,475               15,800
2               2,475               13,325
3               2,475               10,850
4               2,600                8,250
1978/79                 1               2,600                5,650
2               2,600                3,050
3               2,600                  450
4                 225                  225
1979/80                 1                 225






ANNEX 17
Page 1
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Financial Results and Economic Rate of Return Calculations
Financial Results
1.        Under the expanded operation resulting from implementation of the
project, the Grain Board is expected to continue to achieve its objective of
being a financially viable grain storage and marketing organization. A cash
flow was projected to indicate the position of the Grain Board when its
domestic purchases reach-413,000 tons and it stores 303,000 tons as a service
for the cooperatives. The Grain Board would also store about 483,000 tons of
Government reserve stocks. Revenues were estimated for domestic buying and
selling operations and for the storage services but not for the import opera-
tion, since the Grain Board expects to price domestic sales at the c.i.f.
landed prices of grain. Internal transportation costs for imports were includ-
ed as part of the Grain Board's operational expenses.  The projected cash
flow for the Grain Board indicates that the expanded operation would produce
an annual net profit before depreciation and interest of about ID 2.0 million
(US$6.7 million) (Table 1).
Benefits
2.        Grain Storage Losses.  It was assumed that the present storage loss
rate of about 8% by weight in the private traders' storage (Annex 3) would be
reduced by 3 percentage points on domestic grain and 2 percentage points on
imports with the project. Of the total grain received annually by the pro-
ject facilities, it is projected that about 64% would consist of wheat and
36% of barley. Prices of US$72 and US$55 per ton (c.i.f. Iraq) for wheat
and barley, respectively, have been used to convert these reductions in
storage losses into monetary terms which results in an annual saving of about
US$1,442,000.  Detailed calculations are presented in Table 2.
3.        Reduction in Marketing Costs.  It is assumed that the grain to
be marketed under the project facilities would otherwise have required two
marketing operations (Alawis and Siefs). The marketing cost, including labor
cost, managerial salary for the proprietor, and direct operating cost for
sief and alawi onerations is US$9.59 and US814.53 per ton per marketing,
resTnectively. Two handlings are involved in each: (a) buying (receiving)
and (b) selling (disnatching). Thus, the private marketing cost is
US$6.03 1/ per ton excluding trader profits. The Grain Board, on the other
hand, would purchase directly from the cooperatives and, after storage, sell
the grain to the Government flour mills. Allowing for inter-silo transfers,
Government would handle its domestically



ANNEX 17
Page 2
Government would handle its domestically procured grain about 3.5 times at
an estimated cost per handling of US$1.76 and USS2.06 for bulk and bagged
grain, respectively, including operating and overhead expenses. Thus, the
Grain Board's total marketing cost would be US$6.16 per bulk ton and US$7.21
per bagged ton, as compared to a total marketing cost in the private trader
system of US$24.12 for bagged grain. It is projected that, of the volume
of domestically procured grain that would be handled by the project facil-
ities, about 76% would be marketed in bulk and 24% in bagged form, for net
annual saving of about US$4.4 million. For detailed calculations, see Table 3.
4.        Savings due to Bulk Handling.  At present not all of the Grain
Board's storage facilities are equipped to handle grain in bulk form. With
their present facilities the Grain Board must handle most grain shipments -
80-85% in unbagged form at a cost of US$2.06 per ton (the average cost pre-
sently paid by the Grain Board to contract laborers), compared to a possible
US$1.76 per ton for bulk handling. As a result of the project, both the new
and existing storage facilities of the Grain Board, including the Basrah port
silo, would have the capability of loading and unloading grain in bulk form
to and from trucks, railcars, or barges, depending upon the mode of transport
serving the various sites. It was estimated that, of the total internal
movement of grain other than that involved in the domestic operations, which
was taken into account above, about 90% would be handled in bulk and about
10% in bagged form. This would result in a savings of about US$1.04 million
per year. Detailed calculations are presented in Table 5.
5.        Reduction in Internal Transportation Cost.  The provision of bulk
loading and unloading facilities under the project would also result in
more efficient use of trucks, which are the primary means of transporting
grain and are at present imported. Based on queueing theory, it is estimated
that, with the project, handling of the required tonnage would involve wait
times for trucks of 3,770 hours, while in the absence of the project, truck
waiting time would be 717,598 hours.   This results in a saving equivalent
to the cost of about 150 trucks which have a total annual fixed cost of about
US$684,000. This is based on the assumption that in Iraq a 10-ton truck
costs about US$4,560 annually, 2/ and has a maximum productive time of about
4,800 hours/year (300 days/year x 16 hours/day). The reduction in the number
of trucks required for nationwide grain movement would also result in fewer
imports of these vehicles in the future. Detailed calculations appear in
Table 7.
1/   USS (9.59 + 14.53) = US$24.12 = US$6.03
4             4
2/   Includes cost of driver, capital recovery cost and truck company over-
head.



ANNEX 17
Page 3
6.        Reduction of Ocean Shipping Charges.  The 1971 level of wheat and
barley imports, 1.4 million tons, created serious problems in unloading ships
in Basrah port since the Basrah port silo was built primarily for export
handling and the Grain Board did not have either the storage or handling
capacity to unload the grain in an efficient manner. In order to discharge
the incoming ships and barges at Basrah, the Grain Board, after full sched-
uling of its own ship and barge docks, was forced to use general cargo docks
in the main Basrah port area. Bucket cranes unloaded grain onto docks where
it was subsequently hand-bagged and carried off to the temporary storage
areas. The resulting storage losses and damage are described in Annex 3,
and the extra unit costs of such handling are discussed in paragraph 4.
However, the largest cost of inefficient and inadequate import handling was
incurred through the demurrage fees levied by the ocean shipping brokers.
It was reported that, at one point during the influx of imports, 25 ships
were waiting in Basrah, Urm Qasr, or in the Arabian Gulf to be discharged.
The actual denurrage paid by the Grain Board for its 1971 import shipments-
was about US$3.3 million and about 65% of incoming ships incurred such
charges. It should also be noted that these charges were levied at a time
of low demand for ocean shipping and the Grain Board was usually allowed
10 days to unload. Furthermore, because of the low demand for ocean bottoms
and lack of experience with the Port of Basrah, shipping brokers most likely
did not charge the Grain Board higher tonnage rates. However, since the
slow discharge situation at Basrah is now well-known throughout the shipping
world the increased tonnage rates in addition to demurrage charges will most
likely be charged in the future for such extended delays.
7.        In a period of normal demand for ocean shipping, a port such as
Basrah is expected to sustain an effective discharge rate of about 250
tons/hour and in any case be able to discharge a grain shipment of about
18,000 tons in about five days. Failing this, shipping brokers state that
demurrage would start on about the sixth day and shipping rates would be
adjusted upward in order for the broker to cover the difference between the
daily demurrage and the daily opportunity cost.
8.        The proposed project would provide facilities to alleviate this
slow discharge problem. First, the discharge capability at Basrah would be
increased from an effective 80 tons/hour to 300 tons/hour (rated 600 tons/
hour). As described in Annex 9, this would be done either by providing
pneumatic discharge gantries on an extension to the present ship dock of the
silo or by modifying the present structure to allow ship unloading as well
as loading at high speeds on the same dock area. In addition, a transfer
silo would be constructed at Um Qasr with the capability of lightering ships
via pneumatic tubes having a total rated capacity of 600 tons/hour and an
effective rate of 300 tons/hour. The lightered grain would go directly into
(a) barges for discharge at Basrai, (b) railcars for inland distribution,
(c) trucks for inland distribution, or (d) silo storage bins for subsequent
loading into any of the three previous transport modes. Incoming ships would
either be completely discharged at Um Qasr or merely lightered before they
sail to Basrah for complete discharging, depending on ship arrivals. The
average ship carrying a cargo of 18,000 tons or more would have to be lightered



ANNEX 17
Page 4
since only those carrying a maximum of 12,000 to 16,000 tons (depending on
type of ship) can reach Basrah Port due to a bar in the river passage.
9.        The benefits in reduction of demurrage charges was calculated on a
with-or-without the project basis.  The projected annual import shipments,
totaling 750,000 tons, were assumed to arrive during the nine-month nonharvest
season, as per the movement plan of Annex 7, in ships carrying an average
of about 18,000 tons; therefore, about 42 ships would be discharged during
the nine-month period. Under the without-project case, a calculation of the
average waiting and discharge time for a ship was made on the assumption
that 6,000 tons per ship would be lightered at the present effective rate of
80 tons/hour, or 1,280 tons per 16-hour, two-shift day. The lightered ship,
carrying 12,000 tons, would then proceed to Basrah where it would be com-
pletely discharged, either at the port silo dock at an effective rate of 80
tons/hour, or 1,280 tons per 16-hour, two-shift day, or at a general cargo
dock at the rate of 1,000 tons/day. Poisson distributions were assumed for
the mean arrival and service rates. Through application of queueing theory,
the average time per ship for waiting, lightering, and discharging under the
present system was determined to be as follows (Table 8):
Days
Um Qasr:  Waiting and lightering 6,000 tons  17.6
Basrah : Waiting and discharging
12,000 tons                          21.7
Total                39.3 days per ship
10.       The same calculation was made for the projected import flow
through the proposed facilities, which would have a bulk unloading capacity
of 300 tons/hour, effective, or 4,800 tons per 16-hour, two-shift day at
Basrah and Um Qasr. It was assumed that, on the average, arriving ships
would be 50% (9,000 tons) lightered at Um Qasr and then proceed to Basrah
for final unloading (9,000 tons). Once again, queueing theory was applied
and Poission distributions of arrival and service rates assumed (Table 8).
The calculation shows the average ship waiting, lightering, and unloading
time under the proposed facilities to be as follows:
Days
Um Qasr:  Waiting and lightering           2.6
Basrah : Waiting and discharging          2.6
Total                     5.2 days per ship
11.       Net Benefit.  To calculate the economic benefit of the reduced
ship waiting and unloading time, the conservative assumption was made that
10 days would still be allowed to discharge arriving ships. The daily
demurrage fee presently being charged on grain ships is US$2,000 to US$2,400;



ANNEX 17
Page 5
for the calculation, the lower end of the fee range, US$2,000/day, was used.
Also, calculations did not include the savings realized by avoiding the
increased shipping rates that ship brokers begin to charge when they know
in advance that their ship is likely to be delayed beyond the stipulated
unloading period. Even under these conservative assumptions, the estimated
savings are substantial:
Without the Project:
Average waiting and unloading time, less 10 days:
39.3 - 10 - 29.3 days
Total demurrage fee - 42 ships at $2,000/day demurrage:
29.3 days x US$2,000/day x 42 ships - US$2,461,000
With the Project:
Since the average expected waiting and unloading time is less
than the 10 days allowed for unloading, no charges for demurrage
would be expected.
Thus, the proposed ship discharging facilities would result in a minimum
savings of about US$2.5 million annually.
12.       Increase in Production.  The added storage capacity would allow
the Grain Board to procure about 30% of the marketed domestic production.
This level of sustained purchases at favorable producer prices would result
in increased production. The production response to increased and stabilized
prices for wheat and barley is found to be significant in the north of Iraq.
It is estimated, based on simple regression, with relative prices as a
determining variable, that the price elasticity of production (for wheat and
barley) in the north is about 0.9. It is assumed that the significant savings
expected to result from reductions in marketing costs would be channeled to
farmers in the form of a minimum 10% increase in present farmgate prices.
This would result in an incremental production of 39,000 tons of wheat and
29,000 tons of barley in the north of Iraq. Assuming net price rates of
US$34 per ton for wheat and US$16 per ton for barley after deducting the
production cost, a net benefit of about US$1.8 million per year has been
derived.
Full Project Development
13.       Although benefits from the project would accrue to the economy at
various times and in differing quantities, for the purposes of calculation,
it has been assumed that, except for the production increase (para 12), the
full benefits on an average basis would be realized in the eighth year
after commencement of the project.



ANNEX 17
Page 6
14.       Investment Cost.  This includes capital cost for the expansion
and modernization of silo facilities, engineering and supervision services,
and development of an automated inventory management system and a grain
marketing and pricing policy, as well as for training personnel vho would
manage and operate the new silo facilities.
15.       Economic Life.  The economic life of the project is assumed to be
25 years.
16.       Economic Rate of Return.  With the completion of the project, annual
benefits as of 1980 would be as follows:
(a) Reduction in Storage
Losses                                 1,442
(b)  Reduction in Ocean Transport              2,461
(c)  Savings due to Bulk Handling              1,038
(d) Reduction in Internal
Transport                                684
(e)  Reduction in Marketing Cost               4,391
(f)  Increase in Production                    1.800
Total                              11.816
The economic rate of return on the project would be 16% including physical
contingencies in the investment cost (Table (9).
17.       Sensitivity Tests.  To test the sensitivity of this return, a
calculation was made considering investment cost without physical contingen-
cies, giving a rate of return of 18%. Another test, increasing the cost of
the project by about 15% and assuming no change in the value of benefit due
to price increases, results in an economic rate of return of 13%. Shadow
pricing labor at 25% in marketing and handling results in an economic return
of 14% (Table 10). All these returns are satisfactory, particularly in view
of the fact that this is an infrastructure project needed for the implementa-
tion of an efficient grain marketing system in Iraq.



ANNEX 17
Table 1
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Projected Annual Cash Flow
REVENUE                                                              ID 1000      US$ '000
Sales of Domestic Purchases
Wheat:   ID 24 x 211,000 tons                                 5,064       17,116
Barley:  ID 18 x 203,000 tons                                  ,654       12,351
Total                                                  8,718       29,467
Storage and Handling Revenue from Cooperatives
ID 1.45 x 303,000 tons (Storage over 4 months)                  439        1,484
Storage of Reserve Stocks - Revenue from Government
ID 2.25 x 483,o00 tons (Storage 1 year)                       1,087         3,674
Total Revenue                                         10,244       34,625
EXPENSES
Cost of Domestic Purchases
Wheat:   ID 17 x 211,000                                      3,587        12,124
Barley:  ID 12 x 203,000                                      2              X
Silo Operating Expenses (before depreciation)1/                     462        1,562
Bulk (90%) 0.9 x 2,051,500 tons x ID .25
Bag  (10%) 0.1 x 2,051,500 tons x ID .27-                                   16
Total Silo Operating Expenses                            517         1,748
Total Transportation Costs                                          898        3,035
Grain Storage Losses
Wtheat:  0.02 x211,000 x ID 24                                  101           341
Barleyr 0.02 x203.,000 x ID 18                                    73          247
Total Grain Storage Losses                                17           588
Grain Board Overhead
2,051,500 tons x ID .321/                                       656         2,218
Total Expenses                                         8,268        27,947
Net Profit before Depreciation and Interest                       1,976        6,678
1/ Tonnage of 2,051,500 based on the total handled tonnage (5,051,500) less 3,000,000
corresponding to imports (Table 5, Annex 17).



ANNEX 17
Table 2
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Reduction of Grain Storage Losses
Total Grain Received.Annually by Grain Board ('000 tons)
Total     Wheat     Barley
Imports                                        750       516         234
Local Purchase                                 413       210         203
Grain Stored for Cooperatives                  303       201         t02
1,466       E          539
(43.%)     (37%)
Total Storage Capacity ('000 tons)
Present Storage Facilities                     368       4as
Project Storage Facilities                     560        60%
Total                                     928      100%
Therefore, about 60% of annual receipts are to be stored in pro-Ject facilities.
Storage Quantities Affected by Project
Domestic Purchases and Local Storage    (0.60)    716,000 = 429,600 tons
Imports                                  (0.60)    750,000 -450,ooo tons
Total                               (0.60)  1,466,000 = 879,600 tons
Total Reduction in Storage Losses
Reduction of Storage Losses on Domestic
Purchases and Local Storage            (0.03)   429j400   12,888 tons
Reduction of Storage Losses on Imports  (0.02)   450*0C0-  9,000 tons
Total                                                  21,888 tons
Value of Reduced Storage Losses
Tons Saved - Wheat   (64%)  14,O08 tons ' US$72/ton = US$a,008,576
Barley  (36%)   7,880 tons @ US$55/ton = US$ _41L,00
Total                  21,888 tons                US$1,441,976



ANNEX 17
Table 3
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Reduction in Marketing Costs of Domestically-Procured Grain
Quantity to     Quantity to               Total
be Procured     be Handled                Handling    Cost per
Domestically    in Project    Number of  Tonnage      Ton per      Total
Grain Board  Facl /it J    Handlings  Affected    Handling    Jost
(I OQ a tons)   '000 m tons)            (000Omtons)(US$/m tons) (US$'O0O,
WTHOUT PROJECT
flow through Private
System
Bagged         413             248          4         992          6.03      5,982
Bulk            -               _           _           _            _
Total      413             24d                    992                    5,982
ITo=H PROJECT
Flow through Grain
Board Systea
Bagged          991V            60        3.5         210          2.06        433
Bulk           3141/           188        3.5         658          1.76      1,158
Total      413             248                    868                    1,591
Difference 4,391
j  Under the project facilities 24,4 of the domestic  purchase tonnage handled is
proJected to be in bagged form and 76% in bulk form.
Z/ This amount represents the portion (60-) of the Brain Board's total domestic
procurement (413,000 tons) which would be stored in the project facilities.



ANNEX 17
Table 4
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
(Labor Costs Shadow Priced)
Reduction in Marketing Costs of Domestically-procured Grain
Quantity to
be Procured    Quantity to                Tota 1    Cost
Domestically   be Handled                 Handling   per
by Grain       in Pro-         No. of    Tonnage   Ton per   Total
Board        ject Facilityi/Handlings  Affected  Handlin i Cost
(000 m tons)   (000 m tons)               (000 m    (US$ m      (US$ 000)
tons)     tons)
WITHOUT
PROJECT
Flow through
Private
System
Bagged                413          248              4         992       5.5      5,456
Bulk                   -            -                                            ____
Total               413          248                        992                5,456
WITH PROJECT
Flow through
Grain Board
System
Bagged               99  /         60              3.5       210       1.54       323
Bulk                314 /         188             3.5        658       1.65    1,Q86
Total             413           248                        868                1,409
Difference      .4,047
Under the project facilities 24% of the domestic purchase tonnage handled
is projected to be in bagged form and 76% in bulk form.
2/  This amount represents the portion (60%) of the Grain Board's total domestic
procurement (413,000 tons) which would be stored in the project facilities.
3/  The labor component of the marketing costs were lowered by using a shadow
price 25% below the market price.



ANNEX 17
Table 5
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Savings due to Bulk Handling
Handled
Tonnage                  Cost
(70-00 tons)           7(US$'000)
WITHOUT PROJECT
A. Discharge and Transfer of Imported Grain
with Present Facilities at Port
(Imports - 750,000 tons x 2 handlings)         1,500                   968   /
B. Internal Movement of Non-domestically
Procured Grain (Imports + Coop Storage) 1/
Bagged (US$2.06)?!           (90%)           1,895                  3,904
Bulk (Us$1.76)3/             (10%)              211                   371
B.  Subtotal                          2,106                 4,275
WITHOUT PROJECT MTAL                        3,606                  5,243
WITH PROJECT
A. Discharge and Transfer of Imported Grain
with Present Facilities at Port
(Imports - 750,000 tons x 2 handlings)         1,500                   552  4/
B.  Internal Movement of Non-domestically
Procured Grain (Imports + Coop Storage) 1/
B.ulk   (US$ 1.76) 3/         (90%)          1,895                 3,335
Bsgged (US$2.06) 2/            (10%)            211                   435
B. Subtotal                          2,106                 3,770
WITH PIRTJECT TOTAL                           3,606                 4,205
Difference                                                     1,038
i/ The total movement (tonnage x no. handlings) projected through the Grain Board facilities
is:                                           Handled Tons
Imports:  At port  (750,000 x 2) -         1,500,000
Internal (750,000 x 2) -         1,500,000
Cooperative Storage (303,000 x 2)            606 000
Subtotal              3,606 000
Domestic Procurement (413,000 x 3.5)       1,445,500
Total                 5,051,500
Internal Movement: 90% Bulk, 10% Bagged with project; 10% Bulk, 90% Bagged
without Project.
The savings on handling costs of the imports and local storage (tonnage - 3,606,000 tons)
is calculated here. The savings on handling cost on the domestically procured grain
(413,000 handled tons) is taken into account in Table 3.
2/ The cost of US$?.06/ton for handling bagged grain represents the average cost presently
being paid by the Grain Board to contract Laborers-
3/ The cost of US$1.76/ton for handling bulk grain represents the estimated average cost
(direct operating and overhead) for the project facilities at the prejected volumes.
v/ The cost of discharge of imports at Basrah were calculated on the basis of actual costs
for the existing operation and estimated on the basis of bulk transfer through a high-
speed pneumatic unloaders under the project facilities.



ANNEX 17
Table 6
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Savings due to Bulk Handling
(Labor Costs Shadow Priced)            Handled
Tonnage                  Cost
(000 tons)          (US$'000)
WITHDUT PROJECT
A.  Discharge and transfer of Imported
Grain with Present Facilities at Port
(Imports - 750,000 tons x 2 handlings)               1,500                  968  2
B.  Internal Movement of Non-domestically
Procured Grain (Imports + Coop Storage) /
Bagged (US$1.54) 2/           (90%)                1,895                2,918
Bulk (US$1.65) )/-            (10%)                  211                  348
B.  Sabtotal                               2,106                 3,266
WITHDUT PROJECT TOTAL                              3,606                4,234
WITH PROJECT
A.  Discharge and Transfer of Imported
Grain with Present Facilities at Port
(Imports - 750,000 tons x 2 handlings)               1,500                  554  4/
B. Internal Movement of Non-domestically
Procured Grain (Imports + Coop Storage) J
Bulk (US$1.65) 3/             (90%)                1,895                3,126
Bagged (US$1.54j 2/           (10%)                  211                  320
B.  Subtotal                             2,106                 37=
WITH PROJECT TOTAL                                 3,606                4,000
Difference                                                            234
/ The total movement (tonnage x no. bandlings) projected through the Grain Board facilities
is:                                             Handled Tons
Imports:  At port (750,000 x 2) -            1,500,000
Internal (750,000 x 2) -           1,500,000
Cooperative Storage (303,000 x 2)              606,000
Subtotal                3,606,000
Domestic Procurement (413,000 x 3.5)         1,445,500
Total                   5,051,500
Internal Movement: 90% Bulk, 10% Bagged with project; 10% Bulk, 90% Bagged without
Project.
The savings on handUing costs of the imports and local storage (tonnage - 3,606,000 tons)
is calculated here. The savings on handling cost on the domestically procured grain
(1413,000 handled tons) is taken into account in Table 3.
2/ The labor costs for handling bagged grain were shadow priced at 25% lower than the
average cost presently being paid to contract laborers decreasing the cost to
US$1.51/ton.
3/ The labor content of the cost of handling bulk grain was shadow priced 25% lower
decreasing the cost to US$1.65/ton.
i The cost of discharge of imports at Basrah were calculated on the basis of actual costs
for the existing operation and estimated on the basis of bulk transfer through a high-
speed oneumatic unloaders under the project facilities.



ANNEX 17
Table 7
Page 1
IRAQ
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Reduction of Internal Transportation Cost
Average
Tonnage     Average      Wait Time   Total Wait
Handled-/   per Silo    per Silo3/  Time Truck
(000 tons)   (000 tons)       (hr)         (hr)
WITHOUT PROJECT
A.  Receipts
1.  Bulk (45%)
a.  Truck (10 silos)           81               8              4            40
b.  Rail                       10
c.  Bargei1/                1,o46
2.  Bagged (55%)
a.  Truck (17 silos)        1,250              74         12,454      211,718
b.  Rail                    .
2,52
B. Shipments
1. Bulk (255%)
a.  Truck (10 silos)          306              31                           90
b.  Rail /                    204
C.  Barge-'                   222
2.  Bagged (75%)
a.  Truck (17 silos)        1,422              84         29,750      505,750
b.  Bail                      472                                     ___
WITHOUT PROJECT   2,526                                      717,598
WITH PROJECT
A. Receipts
1.  Bulk (90%)
a.  Truck (29 silos)          816              28             5931       1,711
b.  Rail 428 silos)            273
c.  Barge-                  1,185
2.  Bagged (10%)
a.  Truck (29 silos)          189               7             27           783
b.  Rail (18 silos)             6
2,526
B. Shipments
1.  Bulk (90%0)
a.  Truck (29 silos)        1,382              48             24           696
b.  Rail t18 silos)            593
c.  Barge-                    298
2.  Bagged (10%)
a.  Truck (29 silos)          177               6             20           580
b.  Bail (18 silos)            76
WITH PROJECT         ,23,770
Difference                                                    717,028
1/  Impact of Project  on   the handling of grain moving in barges considered in Table 6.
2/ As can be seen from Table 5, Annex 17, the total movement (tonnage x no. handlings)by
the Grain Board in cliing the project facilities is 5,051,000 tons of which 2,526,000 tons
are received and 2,526,000 tons are shipped.
3/ Sample calculation of waiting time appears on page 2.



ANNEX 17
Table 7
Page 2
Sample Calculation of Waiting Time
WITH PROJECT
A, 1, a
Receipts - Bulk                      where W4T - Waiting Time per Truck
Truck
Average tonnage
per silo    -  31,000 tons                 = mean service rate
WdT             -   _
"'I. (                     -  56 ton/hr
10 ton/truck
WT                     .65                    -  5.6 truck/hr
5.6 (5.6-.65)
5    mean arrival time
WT                 .023 hr/truck            A = 3,100 trucks
(300)days (16) hr/day
= - 0.65
Waiting Time
per Silo     = (.023) (3,100) - 71 hr/silo
NOTE: The poisson distribution was assumed for the arrival of trucks
since it is estimated that it provides a reasonable approximation
of the occurence of individual events over a long period of time.



ANNEX 17
Table 8X
Page 1
IRA-Q
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Calculation of Average Ship Waiting and Unloading Time
with Present Facilities
Asaumptions
1. Imports of 750,000 tons of grain are to arrive at a uniform rate over
a 9-month period.
2. Average grain shipment * 18,000 tons, i.e., 42 ships/year.
3.  Um Qasr effective lightering rate - 80 tons/hr for a 16-hr, 2-shift day,
or 1,280 tons/days, 38,4000 tons/month.
4. Basrah Port silo bulk-discharge rate - 80 tons/hr for a 16-hr, 2-shift day,
or 1,260 tons/day, 38,400 tons/month. Basrah general cargo dock discharge
rate - 1,000 tons/day, 30,000 tona/month.
TU Qasr Lightering Operation
6,000 ton per ship to be discharged at Um Qasr.
T1 =      1                 where T1 - average time ship in a
'41 - ?one service unit system
Ti       1                            - mean service rate
6.4 - 4.7
-         = 40 6.4 ships/month
T1 = O.588 month/ship                 = mean arrival rate
T1 - 17.6 days/ship                X     42.
9   4.7 ship/month
Basrah Unloading Operation
12,000 tons per ship to be discharged at Basrah port silo dock or
general cargo dock.
2   ( -                                 where T2 = average time ship in two
service unit system
po = (z'   f\~   I/>-tK2 )= mean service rate
Io  J38,4000 + 30,000
I0  _/ 1                                2       ,     2.85 ship/
AS! .)                                             ,0                   month



ANNEX 17
Table &i;
Page 2
PO -           _    _ _                            = mean arrival time
0    O 96    ---                                /\  492 = 4.7 ships/month
T2                        (,D%) 4.          -      = number of service units
T 2 =.724 month/ship
2
T2 - 21.7 days/ship
Average Total Time Waiting, Lightering, and Unloading without
the Project:
T1 + T2 = 17.6 + 21-.7 = 39.3 days/ship
Calculation of Average Ship Waiting and Unloading
Time with Project Facilities
Assumptions
1. Imports of 750,000 tons of grains are to arrive at a uniform rate
over a 9-month period.
2.  Average ship's cargo = 18,000 tons - i.e., 42 ships per year.
3. Umn Qasr transfer silo effective unloading rate = 300 tons/hour for
a 16-hr, 3-shift-day, or 4,8000 tons/day, 144,000 tons/month.
Urm Qasr Lightering Operation
9,000 tons per ship to be discharged at Um Qasr.
T1      1                             where T1 - average time for ship in a one-
A-~ _- :<service unit system
T=    1                                   ,A   - mean service rate
16 - 9.7
ZA    -    ,000 a 16 ships/month
T  = .088 month                                 o mean arrical rate
T1 = 2.6 days/ship                          -\ 4h2
9  -4.7 ship/month



ANNEX 17
Table a
Page 3
Basrah Unloading Operation
9,000 tons to be unloaded at Basrah Port silo.
T2 m   1                            where T2 - average time for ship
_v4 - k                                    in one-service unit system
T2 =    1
16 - 4.7                                 a mean service rate
- 144,000   16 ships
9,000     month
T2 = .088 month/ship                          - mean ship arrival rate
T  = 2.6 days/sh#p                         X  = h2
2                         94L.7 ships/month
Average Total Time Waiting, Lightering, and Unloading with the Project:
TX + T2 = 2.6 + 2.6 - 5.2 days/ship






GRAIN STORAGE PRDJECT
ProJect Economic Rate of Return
(US$ 000)
1       2       3       4        5       6        7       8-25
A.  Project Cost                            167   1,879  13,204  15,866  15,613  15,564    4,388       |  _
Physical Contingency (JIJ)               24     272   1.915   2,300   2 26X        2,251   6/6    I
191   2-p[15,119  lB,166, 17,8r7  1-7;--82i    ~,2
TOTAL                                                                                      /
B.  Net Incremental Benefits
1.  Reduction in Storage Losses          -       -        -      577     865  J-a54  .1,442        1,412
2.  Reduction in Ocean Transport         -       -        -   1,622   1,622   2jh61    2,461       2,461
3.  Reduction in Handling Cost           -       -        -      402     8M     1,038              1,038
4.  Reduction in Internal Transport      -       -        -      137     274      480      684        684
5.  Reduction in Marketing Cost          -       -        -    1,756   2,635   3,513    4,391       4,391
6.  Increase in Production               -      _         -      360     720   1,080    1           1800
TOTAL                              -       --    4,854   6,920   9,612   11,456    11.816.
C.  Net Cost/Benefit Stream                (191) (2,151)(15,119)(13,312)(10,957) (8,209)   6,432    11,81i
Project Economic Rate of Return - 16%
Sensitivity: a. without Physical Contingenciest 18%
b. with Physical Contingencies and
Investment Cost 15% Inorease: 13%
I~~~~~~~~



GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Project Economic Rate of Returnl/
(US$ 000)
1     2        3         4        5        6        7         8-25
A. Project Cost                            167  1,879   13,204    15,866  15,613   15t,564   4,388
Physical Contingency (141)              24    272    1,915    2,300   2,264    2,257        636
191 2,151    5,119    IffT6   17,877   17,821   5,024
TOTAL 
B.  Net Incremental Benefits
1.  Reduction in Storage Losses       -         -      -          L77.   8865    1,154   1,412        1,,442
2.  Reduction in Ocean Transport      -         -      -       i?24 1,62  2,61   2,461               2,1461
3.  Reduction in Handling Cost        -         -      -           91     180       208     231         234
4. Reduction in Internal Transport  -           -      -          137     274       480     684         684
5.  Reduction in Marketing Cost       -         -      -        1,619   2,428    3,238   4, 0147     140,047
6.  Increase in Production            -                           360     720    1o ,044              1,800
TOTAL                                                   4,406   6,039    8,62r 10,306        10,660
C.  Net Cost/Benefit Stream                (191)(2,A51) (15,11i9) (13, 760) (11, 78)  (9,200) 5,284      10,668
Project Economic Rate of Return= 14=J
Sensitivity: a. without fhysical Contingencies: 16%
b. with Physical Contingencies and
Investment Coat 15% Increase: 12% - 1
-L
1/Labor component of the handling and markieting coats are shadow priced.



r    U    R    K   E    Y
_,,  >,   z S   .>m :d! wo  k   <[I  R  A     N
IR A Q
4  s'  o      "  GRAIN   STORAGE  PROJECT
L        OCATIOS OF PROJECT SILO  WORKS
T,k,~l         T-            J            oIShwrgur     E k-ih I  N ki  Silos
*    '   R    |   l      ! t     fo 02   /            ( )   1  0  C r as t-wns~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~si  1
b (
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                             Moiicto  or -oanio  ofmo .xstn  SilosK=ro <
|_G \ \ Xa >0<nv1a .. ..... ............................................ u.ie,-
1]l-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nentoo B IA  5ndari\              -  s
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sa \_._                                 Al Ab,b 
{ i! S  i,    J s s 4            i~~~~~~~~~~ /K U W A IT
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.ZETA  -*,'^@  ym  -60o00,-,                                            1sX
N. ~      ZN
_,;  R     I  A o-   Al   h.... q . a . l .....  X f Q r }   ~



