Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8499
PRO!ICT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
FERTILIZER LOAN
(LOAN 2345-UNI)
MARCH 30, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Africa Regional Office
This docu enty has a nrsicted      an&md may be ued by ePiek I y In the pefwmane of
teir offical duties Its cott may not otendwse be dislosed without Wodd Bank



CURENCY EQUIVALENTS
N - Naira
At appraisal 1983 US$1 - N 0.75
1984 USS - N 0.77
1985      - N 0.89
1986      - N 1.75
WEIGHTS AND WASUIES
1 hectare (ha)   - 2.47 acres
1 meter (m)      - 39.37 inches
1 kilogram (kg)  - 2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
ADP            Agricultural Development Project
APMEPU         Agricultural Projects Planning,
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
DAP            Diaumonium Phosphate
FAINCO         Federal Agricultural Inputs Marketing Company
FGN            Federal Government of Nigeria
FPDD           Fertilizer Procurement and Distribution Department
FKA            Federal Ministry of Agriculture
FMI            FederaE Ministry of Industry
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
LC             Letter of Credit
NAFCON         National Fertilizer Company of Nigeria
NPK            Nitrogen. Phosphate and Potash
PDP            Primary Distribution Point



T D K  OFFQAL U1  ONLY
TIE WOltLC BANK
WasIwlton. D.C. 033
US.A.
March 30, 1990
1ANDYIU    I0 TOU IEMXUCU       DIRUCTOU AN)D 1I PDBSRN?
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Nigeria
Fertilizer Loan (Loan 2345-UNI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Compkition Report on Nigeria - Fertilizer Loan (Loan 2345-UNI)* prepared by
the Government of Nigeria, with an overview memorandum prepared by the
Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attacbment
This document ha a muicod dsdlbutloa  may be used by ncWolts onb In te pegfona
of thdtir ocil dutbas 1s cotts may not oh-i  b dicsed withot Word Dak au kL



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ea LI   o
(LOAN  2 L4O-N)
TAUSE Of COn!U!3
PbRe No.
Preface ...............................................  
Basic Data Sheet .....................                                       i
Evaluation Sunmary .............***                                 *       iv
OVERVIEW OF THE PROJECT          I........................................   1
A.    LOAN FORMULATION AND PRE-IHPLDIYE5T&ION ISSUES ............            1
Macroeconomic and Sectoral Contezt                                     1
Pre-implementation Issues and Processing                               2
B.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND RESLTS ........................             3
Fertilizer Subsidy Reduction                                           3
Distribution and Marketing Responsibilities ...............            4
Improvements in Fertilizer Procurement Procedures.
Cost Recovery and Distribution Logics ...................            4
Agronomic Effectiveness                 ........                       5
Political Environment ........ ...                                     6
C.    KEY LESSONS AND OBSERVATIONS ...................                       6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT ..*. *........ ...   .....................  ...    9
CHAPTER 1s  INTODUCTION  ..................................9
CHAPTER II:  PROJECT IMPLEENT&TION             .............................  13
CHAPTER IIIs  M  TILIZER POLICY ISSUES            ..........................  42
CHAPTER IVt FtNANCB  5................................                       4
CHAPTER Vt  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE ..........         .................  67
CBAPTER VI:  MANAGEHENT INFORMATION SYSTSE  (MIS) .....*..........          73
COM4ENMT FROK TEE BORROWER
ANNEX l: Communts from National Fertilizer Campany
of Nigeria Limited  ... .....  *........................       85
MAP: IBID 12756R3
This document has a restrictd distdbution and may be used by recipients onl in the pformancc
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not othwise be discoed without Wodd Dank authorzaon



munim        K.0AonRMR
FETTILI2g LOAN
(LOAN 2345-1NS)
PUEFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Nigeria Ferti-
lizer Loan Project for which Loan 2345-UNS in the amount of $250 million
was approved on September 13, 1983. After approval of the Loan by the
Board on Septembez 13, 1983, the Loan Agreement was signed on October 7,
1983 and the Loan became effective on December 20, 1983.   The original
closing date of December 31, 1985 was extended by one year.
The PCR was prepared for the Borrower's implementing agency (FPDD)
by the Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planaing Unit
(APNFPU) and submitted in August 1988.  The Evaluation SumMary and the
Overview were prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division, Country
Department IV, of the Africa Regional Office. The Evaluation Summary out-
lines the major findings of the PCR and is complemented by information in
relevant Bank files. The Overview iucludes, among others, a discussion of
tlhe macroeconomic and sectoral context and key issues faced during prepara-
tion which are not covered in the PCR. The President's Report and the Loan
and Project Agreement are the primary project documents in addition to
relevant Bank files and implementing agency records.
This PCt was read by the Oierations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments on January 22, 1990.
Comennts received are attached as Annex 1.



- ii -
DSILC DATA  lE
WEY POECT DATA
Aprll            Actul  or          Actual as
oi_st           iEstima           AppreaiA
Pro,(11, o1 Co      mliMon)               a.    n             64.6n                    82"
Lo           M sf ;J liiio.)             250.0 Nfl              60.0 an               100
cote Of Usa Approl l                                        September 1$, 1068
Date of Effcttivess                                          seamber 20, 1OU
Closig 0.                                                         b  81. 1 66
Economlc Rats of RotOr"  ) M4/A
Number ot Direct 3.nticarl.sz
(term households)                    N/A
=_ ATM  0ISREMT
FV64        FY65          FY66          FY6T
Appraisl Etimate
(116 milion)             121.2         250.0
Actual (qs  an)            07.6         130.9        223.         249.5
Actual es X of
Estimate                                55.6         s.$ 6n.6
Dat of Final
D      lbursema                11,26/06
STAFF IUTS (Staff WA.k
FY68    FYS4    FY65    FY66    FY67  FYss
P"reppralal                   61.6
Appralial                      28.1
Ne    atlions                   1.9       9.$
Supervision                              24.5   40.9  26.6   5.1    6.2
TOTAL                          68.5      88.6   40.0  86.6   8.1       6.2



- iii-
MISStt DATA
Date s    Numbe of       " ndy      Specisliztstona  Perf,oanc  Trend  Types of
Mission        (1s/yeO)   Persons      1n Fild      Repren nted /   Rating /       /      Problem #
Identl lcatlon
Preappraisel
Apprisal       S/fl
Supervielon 1   10/83      1             1             c               2           1       JaN
Supervision 2   8/04       1             16             e               2           2       M
Supervision 8   9/S4       2             11             a,c              2          2       M
Supervison 4   8/35        1             10             s               2           2
Sap.rvieion 5   9/l6       2             B0             *c              2           2       e
Supervision 0   10/J5      1             10                             2           2
Supervision 7   I/80       a             IS             a.b.c            2          2
Supervision S   2/t        a             16             ab,c            2           2
Supervision 9   5/         1              5             c               2           2
Supervision 10  10/         1            8             s               2           2
a Finaecial anlyst   b *  eoomist,   a Agroecgonomle
* problm tree or minor problems; 2 a wderate problem; 8 a major probleos.
a *mproving; 2 a stationary.
mVFa Fnancil;  a Manageme_t; T a Technical; 0 * 0ther; P * Political.
g/Nes Form 500  an u  that *howe rating for overall status (yefr 1985.
OTHER PRFJECT DATA
Borrower                      -     Federal Republic of Ntigria
Executing Agency              -     Ministry of Agriculture
Fiscal Year of Borroer        -     January 1 - Decemdbr 81
CURRENCY EXCHA    RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)  -   NaI re (N)
Appraisl Yer Average             -   USS1.00      NO.75 (1906)
Intervening Years Average        -   Mo.77 (1094), NO.0  (1015), U1.75 (10NS)
Complotion Year Average (1#0)   -   11.75



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
FERTILIZER LOAN PROJECT
(Loan 2345-UNI)
Evaluation Sumary
Introduction
1.        The Loan was appraised by a mission which visited Nigeria in
March-April 1983. This mission had been preceded by three mi3sions to
discuss in detail Government's fertilizer policies and programs.
Negotiations were hold at the Bank in June 1983. After approval of the
Loan by the Board on September 13, 1983, the Loan Agreement was signed on
October 7, 1983 and the Loan became effective on December 20, 1983. The
original closing date of December 31, 1985 was extended by one year.
Loan Obiectives
2.        The Loan had three major objectives:
(a) to ensure adequate and timely supply of fertilizer to all Bank-
assisted ADPs and other agricultural areas for 1984 and 1985
crop years at a time of acute foreign exchange shortage;
(b) to assist the Federal Government in restructuring its fertilizer
policy, including pricing, subsidization, procurement and
marketing, to make it an efficient and effective instrument of
agricultural development; and
(c) to ensure adequate counterpart Federal Government support to
states for funding ongoing Bank-assisted ADPs.
Imalementation
3.        The Borrower initiated steps to implement the project prior to
loan effectiveness. The naira and dollar budgets for fertilizer were
approved for the years 1983-85. ICE procedures were successfully used to
award contracts for supply of 835,000 tons of fertilizers for the 1984 crop
season. In view of the Borrower's delays in finalizing banking
arrangements for these imports, the Borrower requested and the Bank
approved a two-month postponement of the original Loan Agreement deadline
for completing the imports. The Borrower doubled the maximum period
allowed under the Loan agreement for states to repay fertilizer sales
proceeds to FPDD. Invoicing of states for fertilizer supplies and
recoveries of sales proceeds continually remained a critical problem
throughout project implementation.
4.        Shortly after loan effectiveness on December 20, 1983, the
Borrower met the first dated Loan covenant on reduction of fertilizer
subsidy (over 802 at that time) by increasing official prices of fertilizer
two to three times. Further price increases were made in the following



years resulting in a reduction of the average nominal subsidy to 68Z, 38Z
and 29n in 1984, 1985 and 1986 respectively.
5.        Implementation of measures to shift marketing responsibilities
were continually delayed. By mid-1984, no work had been undertaken on the
fertilizer marketing, funding and implementation plan which was a
conditionality for second tranche release. This conditionality was waived
together with the review of corrective measures for marketing which was re-
scheduled to the end of April 1985 from September 1984. By late 1985, a
proposal to comercialize fertilizer marketing agreed upon between the Bank
and Borrower was submitted for approval by the Federal Executive Council.
6.         With an undisbursed amount of $50 million in December 1985
partly on account of cost savings, the Bank agreed to the Borrower's
request for a one-year extension of the loan to support 1986 import
requirements. The extension was conditioned on: (a) specification of a
target date for elimination of fertilizer subsidy (the Government agreed to
do this by 1989) and (b) finalization of a commercialization plan for
fertilizer marketing (the Government agreed to constitute a limited
liability company with partial private shareholding).
Results
7.        The objective of ensuring adequate fertilizer supplies to Bank
assisted ADPs was met to a substantial extent with 1984 supplies arriving
mostly in time for the planting season. Only 502 of the 1985 imports
arrived in time for the planting season but this provided a large carry-
over stock for the 1986 season requirements. Obtaining adequate
counterpart funding of ADPs was an issue which required continuous
highlighting by bank missions in order to achieve reasonable responses from
the federal and state governments in a period of severe depletion of
budgetary funds.
8.        In respect of policy reforms under the loan subsidy reductions
as designed were achieved in each of the three project years, but these
were based on a nominal value of the naira, a substantially overvalued
currency then. The fourfolW devaluation of the naira in late 1986 brought
the nominal subsidy up to over 70? and close to pre-project levels. With
regard to commercialization of fertilizer marketing the Federal Government
decided in 1986 not to proceed with the constitution of a new priv*te
marketing company and the responsibility remained with FPDD. Nevertheless,
reasonable improvements were made in fertilizer procurement and
distribution logistics. ICB procedures were successfully used and the
distribution network was widened through creation of primary distribution
points (PDPs) enabling location-specific fertilizer demand to be fulfilled
and generating cost savings through lower handling -nd distribution costs.
Agronomic efficiency gains were realized through increase in the proportion
of high analysis fertilizer in the product mix and some improvemen* in the
timeliness of fertilizer delivery.



- vi -
Sustainability
9.        Given the reluctance of the Federal Government to increase
fertilizer prices, the continued depreciation of the naira since the
closing of the Loan has brought the nominal subsidy of fertilizer to about
its pre-Loan level of 85S. Although official retail fertilizer prices were
increased in January 1989 for the first time since the end of the Loan, the
increases were offset by fuzther depreciation of the naira and therefore
did not reduce the economic subsidy. If the current subsidy rate is
maintained and world fertilizer prices annually increase by 102 or more as
currently projected by the Bank, the economic subsidy would grow by at
least 502 in real terms during 1989-91 to allow for a modest 42 growth in
fertilizer consumption. Since Federal Government could clearly not sustain
this level of subsidy, it would have to either restrict the quantity of
fertilizer it subsidizes or severely pre-empt budgetary resources from
other agricultural priorities.
10.       Given budgetary pressures, delayed release of government funds
for fertilizer imports produced shortages of fertilizer after the closing
cf the Loan. These shortages became especially acute in 1988 and farmers
were reportedly paying as much as three and a half times the official
retail price of fertilizer. The 1989 Budget Speech therefore acknowledged
serious problems in fertilizer delivery including lack of timeliness.
suboptimal formulation of fertilizers procured and waste of public funds.
11.       No steps have yet been taken to commercialize the fertilizer
mar..eting system. A new NAFCON amuonialurea plant became operational in
June 1987; nonetheless, there has not been official support for a NAFCON
role in domestic fertilizer marketing as envisaged in the project and
responsibility for procurement still remains with FPDD. The 1989 Budget
Speech featured a decision to withdraw the Federal Government involvement
in procurement and distribution activities by 1990/91. However, no clear
plan to implement the decision has yet been announced.
12.       Yhe Loan has helped to sustain Bank dialogue with th- Borrower.
The issue of fertilizer subsidy was raised in the context of the Nigeria
Trade And Investment Policy Loan in 1987; however, the Government was
resistant to increasing fertilizer prices at that time. Bank sector work
on fertilizer issues has continued despite political resistance to
institutional and policy changes in the fertilizer sub-sector. the 1989
Budget Speech indicated a new understanding of fertilizer issues by the
Government and could provide the basis for pursuing some of the reforms
sought in the Fertilizer Imports Loan. In context of the Loan, the creation
of a committee to identify appropriate fertilizer formulations based on
research trials has helped to lay the basis for more appropriate fertilizer
recommendations.
Findings and Lessons
13.       The results of the project suggest the following:
(a) given a substantially overvalued exchange rate, permanent
reduction in fertilizer economic subsidy is difficult to achieve



without complementary exchange rate or other macroeconomic
reft'rm;
(b) monitoring orrangements for reviewing the impact of fertilizer
price increases must be designed carefully an4 given serious
attention to help provide a clear basis for scaling and timing a
series of reductions in subsidy;
(c) transitional institutional responsibilities for key functions
such as fertilizer marketiv.j are not likely to be effective
unless both the transitionaL and future roles of all bodies
concerned are clearly specified and the fate of existing
personnel and the future staffing configuration agreed upon
(d) related to (c), temporary strengthoming of one institution whose
functions are to be divested is only likely to enhance
difficulties of divesting these functions - transfer of
responsibilities in such cases should take place before loan
effectiveness; and
(e) fertilizer subsector reform could be most effective
where linkages between marketing, research and
extension are fully considered in the design of
institutional changes; otherwise, the distribution
system becomes focussed on logistic issues without
being responsive to market demand.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
FERTILIZER LOAN PROJECT
(Loan 2345-UNI)
Overview
1.        The Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation And Planning
Unit (APMEPU) in Nigeria prepared a Project Completion Report for the
above-mentioned Loan. This Report was not discussed with the Bank. It
describes project outcomes in five areass project implementation, policy
issues, finance, Institutional performance and the management information
system. In several respects, the PCR provides extensive descriptive
coverage of specific project components from the Borrower's perspective.
However, it lacks (a) an integrated and coherent treatment of why project
outcomes in policy reform (notably subsidy reduction and institutional
changes) did not meet objectives: (b) an empirical assessment of agronomic
benefits; and (c) a general assessment of project performance and a
judgment of the lessons to be learned. While summarizing some of the key
points raised in the PCR, the focus of this overview is on discrepancies
between actual and expected outcomes which are not fully elaborated in the
PCI.  Also reviewed below are issues outside the scope of the PCR
pertaiaing to the formulation and preparation of the loan.
A. LOAN FORMULATION AND PRE-IMPLEHENTATION ISSUES
Macroeconomic and Sectoral Context
2.        There were two key aspects of the macroeconomic context in which
the Loan was conceived. A sudden downturn in oil prices in 1981 produced a
deterioration in the Borrower's balance of payments outlook. Foreign
exchange reserves which at the end of 1981 had declined to an equivalent of
two months of imports underwent a further drawdown in 1982. The second
aspect was the related fall in government revenues at both Federal and
state levels which led to cutbacks in capital expenditures at the expense
of ongoing development programs. The financial crisis was particularly
acute at the state level where most projects had become seriously
underfunded. At the same time, the Borrower was judged to be creditworthy
in the medium and long-term provided sound economic policies were adopted.
3.        The agriculture sector was characterized by disappointing growth
performance, rising food imports and declining agricultural exports.
Against this background, Bank-supported Agricultural Development Projects
(ADPs) were showing advances in smallholder agriculture. Given these
improvements and the failure of other policies to promote agricultural
production led the Government to provide maximum support for smallholder
production under the Fourth National Development Plan (1981-85). The ADPs
had shown that adoption of new technologies for increasing crop yields
faced policy constraints including inefficient supply of inputs, of which
fertilizer - which was critical for food production - was the most
expensive and bulky. At the same time, state government fertilizer subsidy



- 2 -
contributions compounded the ADPs' local funding constraints occasioned by
the downtumn in oil prices. Consequently, implementation of ADPs had begun
to slow down significantly.
4.        Within this context, the Loan was mainly conceived to provide
foreign exchange for fertilizer imports specifically and to pursue policy
and institutional changes in the agricultural sector. Fertilizer marketing
and pricing and subsidy policies were identified as two key policy
constraints to be restructured in the context of a Loan increasing resource
flow to agriculture during a balance of payments and fiscal crisis. The
urgency of finalizing the Loan was continually stressed by the Borrower as
funds were required in time for the next cropping season. Loan processing
was thereby time-bound by the logistics of fertilizer procurement.
Pre-implementation Issues and Processing
5.        The main policy issues during project preparation centered on
the fertilizer subsidy and fertilizer procurement and distribution. The
principal subsidy issues concerned the size and timing of fertilizer price
increases and their linkage to the disbursement of the Bank Loan. The
principal issue in improving procurement and distribution function was
identifying the most suitable distribution and marketing system and the
future role of FPDD, the agency of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture
responsible for these functions at the time of loan appraisal.
6.        Subsidy:  Having to weigh  subsidy reduction against its impact
on fertilizer consumption, the Bank and Borrower agreed to annually review
and evaluate the effect of the price increases on fertilizer demand. No
clear methodology was specified for establishing the appropriate magnitude
and timing of subsidy rates. Although the Bank's preference for eventual
elimination of the subsidy had been expressed during negotiations, the
Borrower did not make a commitment in this regard. The Borrower's proposed
phased subsidy reduction over five years was accepted. The Loan Agreement
stipulated reduction of subsidy rates to SOZ and 252 by the end of 1984 and
1987 respectively. FGN was asked to ensure that monitoring of the impact
of fertilizer price increases was undertaken by the Agricultural Projects
Monitoring, Evaluation and Panning Unit (APMEPU). Instead of conditioning
loan disbursement on the fertilizer price increase, the Loan Agreement
stipulated a dated covdnant committing the Borrower to increase retail
fertilizer prices by January 1, 1984. The agreed timing of the fertilizer
price increase was partly in acknowledgement of the Borrowers's political
difficulties of increasing fertilizer prices before the 1983 elections.
7.        Procurement and distribution:  Major differences emerged within
PGN over the ministerial responsibilities and configuration of the
fertilizer distribution and marketing system to be adopted. Preparation
efforts confronted the tension prevailing within FGN between (a)
strengthening the existing fertilizer unit (FPDD) in the Agriculture
Ministry (WMA) and (b) transferring these functions to the new majority
FGN-owned fertilizer manufacturer WAFCON under the oversight of the Federal
Ministry of Industries (FMI). The Bank sought and obtained a Federal
Government decision to eventually transfer responsibility for fertilizer
procurement and distribution to NAFCON. However, given NAFCON's inability



-3-
to assume these functions immediately, FPDD was to continue its procurement
uad distribution role until it could be assumed by NRACON. In the spirit
of expediting availability of financial resources no specific fertilizer
mzrketing and distribution system was agreed to prior to Lona disbursement
but, instead, the Loan Agreement required the Borrower to (a) cause NAFCON
to preparp : detailed fertilizer marketing and funding plan by June 30 1984
and (b) aecermine with the Bank measures to improve fertilizer distribution
by September 30 1984. In the interim FPDD would be strengthened through
the recruitment of eight specialists to undertake the 1984 supply program.
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS
8.        Given the Loan objectives, the key areas for judging its
performance ares (i) reduction of fertilizer subsidy; (ii) transfer of
marketing and distribution responsibilities from PPDD to a commercially-
oriented entity; (iii) logistical improvements in fertilizer procurement
and distribution in cost recovery from states; and (iv) agronomic
effectiveness of the project. Among the factors that affected progress in
these areas were political changes within the government; these are not
discussed in the APMEPU PCR but are summarized below based on Bank project
files.
Fertilizer Subsidy Reductior
9.        During the pre-loan period, the nominal fertilizer subsidy
amounted to 85 percent of total farmgate cost. The official retail prices
of fertilizer were increased during the period of the Loant for high-
analysis fertilizer, the price per ton was 120, 190, and 200 naira in 1984,
1985 and 1986 respectively while the corresponding price for low-analysis
fertilizer during these years was 100, 140, and 170 respectively. On
average the increase in prices between 1983 and 1986 was about four-fold.
The APMEPU PCR calculates the average subsidy during the Loan as 67.5,
37.5 X and 29.2? for 1984, 1985 and 1986 respectively based on a nominal
exchange rate between 0.75 and 1.0 naira to the dollar for the three years.
The nominal subsidy reductions achieved in by 1986 were therefore near to
meeting the target subsidy of 252 set for 1988.
10.         In late 1986, the devaluation of the naira substantially
removed the hidden subsidy provided by the overvalued exchange rate.
Nominal fertilizer subsidy at this exchange rate was over 70. No further
increases in fertilizer retail prices were announced during the project.
The APMEPU PCR uses very inconclusive evidence to argue that further price
increases were not justified, pointing to a survey data among households in
ADPs which showed a drop in the use fertilizer from 732 of households in
1985 to 68? in 1986. It also claims that the increase in fertilizer price
was not accompanied by proportionately larger increases in the price and
yield of crops which would have offset the negative impact of increased
fertilizer cost on the value-cost ratio of fertilizer use. No evidence is
however given for this assertion.



-4-
Distribution and Marketing Responsibilities
11.       Right from the beginning. the Project faced serious problems
with institutional reforms sought in distribution and marketing. The
Borrower's PCR observes that the proposed strengthening of FPDD to
undertake these functions during a transition period suffered from (a)
inability of PMA to provide the required level of manpower support to FPDD;
(b) difficulty in recruiting personnel of desired calibre due to
uncertainty of the fate of FPDD and insufficient time for budgetary
provisions for staff; and (c) reluctance of NAFCON to accept FPDD staff
that were in the program.
12.       The new military government which came to power shortly after
loan effectiveness began to re-examine the legality of a joint venture
agreement previously signed for the NAFCON marketing partner, claiming it
might conflict with the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Act. The
desirability of proceeding with the new NAFCON fertilizer plant was also
re-examined. These developments led to a change in the domestic fertilizer
marketing role for NAFCON that had been envisaged during loan preparation.
This issue is not dealt with in the APMEPU PCR.
13.       Bank supervision reports note that NAFCON's responsibility for
cozmercialization was withdrawn ostensibly because PHI had signed an
expensive (and indefensible) contract with a foreign marketing partner to
organize fertilizer marketing. In fact, it was pointed out, many believed
that the new FMA was not convinced that control over fertilizer marketing
should pass -o an organization under another ministry (PHI). Therefore,
NAFCON's contvsct with a foreign partner provided a rationale for PHA to
restore this responsibility to FPDD.
14.       The conditionality on second tranche release relating to
NAFCON's detailed fertilizer marketing and funding plan and timetable was
waived. Review of the package of corrective measures was re-scheduled to
the end of April 1985 from September 30 1984 because FMA had taken the view
that the studies were not needed and therefore delayed them. After the
marketing study was completed, Bank-PMA discussions focussed on the study's
proposal to establish a new central marketing organization. A new company,
FAIMCO, was registered in 1986 and it was to have 10? government equity
with the rest going to the private sector. However, as stated in the
APMEPU PCR, in the final year of the loan the National Council of
Agriculture rejected the constitution of a separate commercially-oriented
marketing company, professing that privatization and administration of a
subsidy were incompatible. The APMEPU PCR disputes the validity of this
assertion by pointing to several countries where private sector fertilizer
marketing coexisted with some level of fertilizer subsidy.
Improvements in Fertilizer Procurement Procedures, Cost Recovery and
Distribution Logistics
15.       The APMEPU PCR states that ICB procurement procedures introduced
by the Project led to cost savings that allowed for extension of the Loan
to the 1986 crop year. It also points out the following procurement
problems and shortfalls: (a) late release of government funding; (b)



- 5 -
changes In the appointed correspondent bank which occurred in each of the
three years of the Project; (c) delays in the opening of letters of credit
(LCs); (d) problem in synchronizing arrival of fertilizer shipments with
agr&nomic needss (e) congestion of Lagos ports due to use of larger ships
which could not be accamodated at other portst (f) absence of a market
intelligence officer at FPDD to monitor international price trends; and
(g)lack of cross checking of quantity, quality and bagging specifications
against contractual terms.
16.       During project period, FPDD intensified efforts towards recovery
of sales proceeds through establishment of an account receivables process.
Although the APMEPU PCR describes the response by agencies to FPDD attempts
as encouraging, results were not up to expectations. Only 19.5Z of the
297.324 million naira invoiced by FPDD to the States and Agencies during
1984-86 had been recovered, according to the PCR
17.       In the context of the Loua, three innovations in fertilizer
distribution were introduced in 1984, namelys (a) coordination of port
discharge with a continually adjusting distribution master plan; (b)
creation of multiple primary distribution points (PDPs) to allow location-
specific (type and quantity) distribution of fertilizer; and (c)
development of a courier system improving commnication between FPDD, ports
and distribution agencies. These innovations facilitated distribution
planning and execution. Notwithstanding these benefits, further
improvements in distribution and transportation logistics were limited by:
(a) inability of FPDD to negotiate with private truckers who offered lower
road rates than those fixed by the Federal Government; (b) inability of
Nigerian Railway Corporation to cope with allocated fertilizer tonnages;
Cc) inability of many State ministries and fertilizer distribution agencies
to undertake transport from ports due to budgetary constraints.
Azronomic Effectiveness
18.       The APMEPU PCR suggests benefits from a decision made during the
Loan to simplify the fertilizer product mix and to increase the proportions
of high-analysis materials. This resulted in increased use of urea and
introduction of DAP in the product mix. At the same time, importation of a
number of NPK compounds (26-12-10, 20-20-0 and 20-0-20) was phased out
because of their low level of use and agronomic unsuitability. These
decisions permitted reduction in per unit nutrient costs as well as in
storage and transportation costs. At the same time, evidence from research
results and demonstrations in ADP sites showed improved response
coefficients over the Loan period. While theoretical and experimental
considerations suggest increased productivity of fertilizer use, the PCR
points out that its effect could not be separated from the effects of other
components in the crop technical package. The benefits of these changes
were therefore not quantified.
19.       Although delays and shortages in fertilizer deliveries continued
during the Loan, the PCR suggests some overall improvement with favorable
results on agronomic efficiency. The PCR notes that prior to the Loan, the
timeliness of fertilizer deliveries to ADPs was *chaotic and sometimes
unpredictable' with fertilizer sometimes arriving after the cropping



- 6 .
season. In 1984, the widening of the distribution network improved
timeliness and adequacy of supplies. A preliminary APHEPU report in 1985
noted that fertilizer was generally brought in two months late from the
commencement of the cropping season. For 1985 and 1986, APHEPU surveys
indicated that farmers did not always buy appropriate fertilizer types but
only whatever was available at the agro-services centers. The PCR also
points out that the shifting of responsibilities for transporting
fertilizer from FPDD to the states in 1986 Improved the timeliness of
fertilizer delivery.
Political Environment
20.        According to project files, project implementation was
significantly affected by political changes. The implementation of project
saw two military coups in a span of twenty months. As a sequel to first
coup on December 31, 1983 (shortly after loan effectiveness), the process
of educating the new government about the rationale of various components
of the Project started anew and took several months. It involved a
substantial investment of Bank staff time and persuasive skills to bring
all components back on track. By April 1984, NAFCON Board members who had
resigned with dissolution of the first Shagari government had still not be
replaced by appointments by new military government, thereby delaying
appointment of a marketing partner for NAFCON. Other changes in the
government that had affected project implementation weres two changes of
Federal Minister for Agriculture, one change of Permanent Secretary of FMA,
and two changes of the Director of FPDD.
C.  KEY LESSONS AND OBSERVATIONS
21.       Given the substantial overvaluation of the Borrower's exchange
rate during the life of the project, a fertilizer imports loan alone was
not an appropriate instrument for reducing the economic subsidy on
fertilizer. A permanent reduction in the economic subsidy for fertilizer
would have had a greater chance of success if it had been implemented in
the context of broader macroeconomic reforms, notably in regards to the
exchange rate. The project files indicate that the Borrower did not show
any enthusiasm for structural adjustment reform to address its balance of
payments difficulties when this was raised during exploratory discussions
for the fertilizer loan. Given that subsidy reduction was partly intended
to alleviate the financing problems of both Federal and state governments,
the Bank was faced with a choice of achieving nominal subsidy reduction
without exchange rate reform or not proceeding with the Loan. The latter
course was perceived to have had adverse repercussions for the ADPs in
Nigeria which the Bank was helping to finance.
22.       The design of monitoring arrangements for determining the impact
of fertilizer price increases could have received more attention but for
the primary concern over the logistics in meeting the supply requirements
and the unsettling political and administrative changes. Consequently, the
responsibilities of APHEPU in this regard were not adequately elaborated
even during the implementation stage. The Borrower's PCR observes that the
implementation of fertilizer subsidy during the Loan was not guided by any



*scientific assessment of the implications of different subsidy scenarios.'
A clear set of parameters should have been developed with APMEPU to
provide an objective basis for detemining the actual and prospective
impact of fertilizer price increases on consumption and thereby provide a
systematic basis for reduction of the subsidy.
23.       The risks underlying the proposed institutional changes in
distribution and marketing were underestimated. These risks were
articulated during preparation mainly in terms of VPDD not being adequately
staffed to handle the 1984 crop program and NAFCONIs possible inability to
assume responsibility for fertilizer procurement and distribution. A more
fundamental risk arose from the lack of incentives for FPDD to help
implement the proposed institutional changes. This risk was especially
acute since the whole of the loan period was to be on* of institutional
change for PPDD. The APMEPU PCR points out (para 2.2.2) that civil
servants were reluctant to accept new posts in PPDD given the uncertainty
of the fate of its staff after the transition period.
24.        While not discounting the adverse impact of the political
changes on the management of these risks, the future role, staffing and
structure of FPDD should have been more explicitly clarified at the outset.
The transitional nature of PPDD's role in importation, marketing and
distribution during the 1984 cropping year could have been more strongly
emphasized during loan preparation and negotiations and in the project
documents. In view of these risks, the impact of time-bound Bank
conditionalities concerning institutional changes was limited given the
Loan's major objective of ensuring timely fertilizer supply. This became
apparent when some of these conditionalities for second tranche release
vere waived so that imports for the next crop season would not be
jeopardized. Moreover, multiple conditionalities led to waiver of
conditionality in one area (marketing plan) being justified by progress in
other areas of reform (subsidy reduction).
25.        These shortfalls in preparation and design do not appear to be
ones that could kakve been corrected through Bank supervision. Staff
supervision of the project was intense averaging over thirty staff-weeks
annually. The Bank's Resident Mission played an important role at critical
times. Project files show staff continuity virtually throughout the life
of the Loan with supervision principally undertaken by a experienced
subject specialist and by an alternate project officer.
26.       In retrospect, project results suggest that the Loan would have
generally benefitted from more preparation especially in the following
areas s
(a) agreement with the Borrower on a specific methodology for
determining the magnitude and timing of changes in the
fertilizer subsidy rate based on shadow exchange rates: and
(b) a more specific agreement with the Borrower on the
configuration of the new procurement and marketing
system and the future role of FPDD.



-8-
However, the actual preparation effort was time-bound by the logistics of
fertilizer procurement. It was therefore appraised and taken to the Board
with unusual dispatch. In view of the importance of policy and
institutional changes in the Loan, the project outcomes underscore the
importance of adequate preparation, a substantial degree of specificity in
proposed institutional refoDms, and clear-cut consensus among government
institutions involved in these changes.
27.       The foregoing suggests a number of considerations for any future
Bank assistancr for the fertilizer sub-sector intended to reform fertilizer
distribution anQ subsidyt
(a) Institutional reforms Changes in institutional responsibility
are likely to be a major component of a future fertilizer
subsector strategy (specifically a shift in fertilizer
procurement responsibilities away from FPDD). Since the 1989
Budget Speech has recognized the poor performance of the public
sector in fertilizer distribution, the new institutional
approach should be to divest responsibilities as far as possible
to the private sector. A fast-disbursing loan, financing a
specific imports program would carry a series of
conditionalities including a rapid shift in institutional
responsibilities which may not be implemented fully during the
short time frame. Instead, shift in institutional
responsibilities would be more likely to succeed if they are
first specified and agreed upon as a pre-condition of any
assistance; some formal shift of responsibilities should be
taken prior to Board presentation of any proposed assistance.
If needed, the loan could feature technical and other assistance
to help one or both institutions play their new roles. Emphasis
in new responsibilities for fertilizer distribution should be on
marketing and promotion activities instead of a focus on
logistic issues.
(b) Fertilizer subsidy: The methodology by which to scale and
time fertilizer subsidy reductions should be agreed upon
prior to Board presentation. .n contrast to partial and
static analysis of fertilizer subsidy, a comprahensive and
dynamic approach should be taken. This would necessitate
close and timely monitoring of the costs of fertilizer
delivery, the farm-level crop responses to new
formulations, and the changes in farm-level demand for
fertilizer in the context of fertilizer price increases.
Enhancement of this monitoring capacity could feature as
part of any assistance provided. The issue of subsidy rate
should be considered together with related issues of
subsidy administration and fertilizer pricing; an
indicative pricing system with adequate distribution
margins for various regions should be established which
would permit and encourage commercialization of fertilizer
distribution in a competitive market-oriented framework.



-9-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
mPTXR LOAN
(LOAN 2345-UN)
CHAPTER I
IN?RDUCTION
1.1  Fertilizer in Nigerian Agricultural Development
Increased food and fibre production is one of the cardinal
objectives of successful Nigerian governments. Increased
food production is to be achieved through, among other means,
the judicious use of modern inputs, the introduction of
intensive agricultural extension services and the rational
application of credit and price policies.
Fertilizer has been recognized as one of the key inputs that
hold the key to accelerated agricultural production in
Nigeria. The World Bank Food Strategy Mission attributed 60
percent of incremental food production of 3.4 million tons
grain equivalent in Nigeria to fertilizer use alone. It was
rated second in the list of output promoting farm inputs,
particularly in most parts of the country where the inherent
soil fertility is low, and declines rapidly under intensive
and continuous cropping. The use of fertilizers was
projected to play a major role in the national drive towards
self-sufficiency in food and fibre production.   The
fertilizer sub-sector has, accordingly, received considerable
attention and substantial budgetary allocations in recent
times.
1.2  Proiect Identification and Appraisal
Towards improving the operation of the fertilizer subsector,
a comprehensive review of the fertilizer distribution system
was undertaken in 1981. Pollowing the request from the
Nigerian government for the fertilizer loan, a team of
consultants was commissioned in 1983/84 to prepare a project
document for the consideration of the World Bank. A draft
report of the Nigerian fertilizer import loan project was
completed and submitted to the World Dank for appraisal
around Jan/February 1983. The World Bank appraisal team
visited Nigeria to appraise the loan project proposal as well
as hold discussions with top officials of the Ministry of
Agriculture and other related parastatals.
Both the review of 1981 and the fertilizer loan project
proposal of 1983 clearly revealed the following facts about
the Nigerian fertilizer subsector:
1.   Fertilizer use contributes significantly to increased
crop yields and the potential to increase fertilizer-use
in food and export crops is great.
2.   Timely availability of the right type of fertilizers is



10 -
essential to widespread adoption of fertilizer use.
3.  Inadequacy and untimely rel'ate of funds often resulted
in erratic importation pattern which was inconsistent
with steadily growing demand for fertilizer in Nigeria.
4.   Fertilizer procurement and distribution activities were
wasteful and cost in-effective because growth in demand
often exceed the capacity of institutional arrangements
for fertilizer distribution and marketing.
5.   Financial problems in fertilizer procurement and
distribution were rooted in dwindling foreign exchange
earnings from oil export and the heavy burden of
fertilizer subsidy, while logistic problems arose from
procurement, distribution and organisational
in-efficiencies, all of which have pushed the local cost
of fertilizer programmes to an unprecedented level.
1.3  Ob.ictives of Fertilizer Loan
.Arising from all the above, and consistent with government's
commitment to rapid agricultural development and food
self-sufficiency within the short run, the Federal Government
of Nigeria arranged to receive a loan of US $250 million from
the World Bank to lmport fertilizers for the 1984 and 1985
cropping seasons, as well as for restructuring the entire
fertilizer programme with a view to maximizing its efficiency
and cost effectiveness.
The loan was to finance nearly 60 percent of the foreign
exchange cost of importing 2 million tons of fertilizers a
well as the cost of foreign training and communication
equipment required for Fertilizer Procurement and
Distribution Division (PPDD), and studies to assist the
development of an appropriate policy framework. The studies
include:
1.   Transportation and storage optimization study.
2.   Credit plan for short-term crop production loans and fee
fertilizer distribution.
3.   Legal and regulatory framework for fertilizer subsector.
4.   Comercialization of fertilizer marketing.
Other stated objectives of the loan can be suamArised as
follows:
1.  To ensure adequate and timely supply of fertilizers to
all World Bank assisted ADPs and other agricultural
areas.



- 11 -
2. To assist FGN in restructuring its fertilizer policies
including pricing, subsidy, procurement and marketing to
make them an effective instrument of agricultural
development.
3.  To ensure additional FGN support to states for funding
on-going Bank-assisted ADPs through the implementation
of development loan stock scheme.
As against the planned project period (1984 and 1985), the
loan programme was implemented during 1984, 1985 and 1986
cropping seasons. The project was implemented through the
Fertilizer Procurement and Distribution Division (FPDD) of
the Federal Ministry of Agriculture* Water Resources and
Rural Development. "PDD was assisted in 1984 operations by
experts provided through a contract signed with the National
Fertilizer Company of Nigeria (NAPCON). For 1985 operations,
expert assistance was provided by the Crown Agents while Peat
Marwick Ani Ogunde Consultants provided expert assistance for
the 1986 operations. Expert assistances in all cases were
provided mainly in the areas of procurement, port operations.
distribution, finance and management information service.
Although the full impact of the loan project is yet to
mature, the implementation of the loan has had substantial
implications for some components of the fertilizer programme
and national agricultural development generally.
1.4 The Obiective of Project Cpletion Report (PCR)
The objective of the project completion report is to make an
evaluation of project achievements in terms of the fertilizer
loan objectives, expectations and project implementation.
1.S Sources of Information
Different sources of information were used for the
preparation of the project completion report. The most
important documents include the reports of the first and
second fertilizer loan prQject reports. Other documents
include the reports of the agencies which provided assistance
to FPDD, namely NAFCON, Crown Agents and Peat Marvick Ani
Ogunde Consultants. Both Federal Agricultural Coowdinating
Unit (FACU) and AP"EPU provided relevant information on the
activities of all the ADPs as they relate to fertilizer
operations. APMEPU, in particular, provided survey reports
which focused on the trends in fertilizer purchase with
particular emphasis on quantity of fertilizer purchased by
household, fertilizer expenditure for household, the types
and costs by source of fertilizer purchase and the supply of
requirements by users. These surveys were designed to assess
small-holder farmers use of fertilizers and the extent to
which grassroot producers are affected by government policies



- 12 -
on fertilizers. Extensive discussions were held with the
Director and other officials of IPDD to obtain relevant
information on the various aspects of fertilizer operations
during the loan period. Officials of parastatals connected
with fertilizer operations such as Central Bank,, Nigerian
Railway Corporation, Nigerian Ports Authority etc. were
interviewed to determine their perception of the problamn
militating against efficient fertilizer operations.
The officials of the various Agency or State based input
supply and marketing companies were interviewed to determine
their effectiveness, and thus their contributions to the
efficient distribution and marketing of fertilizers as
proposed in the loan project proposals.



_ 13 -
CBAPTrR II
PROJECT IIPLU AIOII
2.1 Implementins Agencies
The project was implemented by the FPDD, assisted by
different experts during the period of the loan. In the
first year of the loan (1984). it was assisted by experts
provided through a contract signed with the National
Pertilizer Company of Nigeria (NAFCON). The assumption was
that NAFCON would take over all procurement and distribution
activities by the end of that year. This, however did not
materialise for reasons to be discussed later. Thus, in
1985, FPDD engaged the services of 5 experts through another
contract with 'H/s. Crown Agents Overseas-. The loan was
extended to 1986 largely due to savings that resulted as a
budget balance or surplus from the projected financial
implications of the 1984 and 198S project years. In 1986
therefore, the FPDD implemented the loan objectives with the
assistance of four consultants throuqh another contract with
Messrs Peat Marwick Ani Ogunde Consultants - a Rigerian firm
of Management Consultants and Chartered Accountants.
In 1984, the three consultants engaged were in the areas of
finance, logistics and distribution and procurement, while in
1985 and 1986 operations and programme coordination experts
were also engaged. They wert mainly advisers but also
r&ndered manpower assistance during the project years.
PPDD and the Consultants worked as a team to plan the
procurement, arrival of shipments and distribution of the
fertilizers to the Agricultural Development Projects, supply
companies, State Ministries of Agriculture and other user and
distribution agencies throughout the country. Rowever, the
frequent changes in the team of experts which prevailed
throughout the project years had implications for FPDD
organisational structure, fertilizer procurement and
distribution exercises. In the following sections, attempts
are made to analyse these issues in terms of loan
expectation, actions taken during the period, the consequent
achievements, shortcomings and the lessons for future.
2.2 Ornanisation
The FPDD before the project, had a total staff strength of 81
persons, with 21 senior staff (ranging from salary grade 07
to 12) headed by an Assistant Director. The remaining staff
were on salaries ranging from G.L.01-06. There were only
three major sections namely, the Operations, Accounts and
General Administration.
The project proposed a new organisational structure for FPDD



- 14 -
with tix major units namely; - Policy and Planning, Procurement,
Marketing and Logistics, Finance anid Accounts, and General
Administration. Each of these sections was to be headed by
either a specialist or senior civil servant on G.L.13. They
were to be directly supported by officers on G.L.10-12, as the
case may be. The total incremental manpower, and related
infrastructural cost was estimated at R600,000.
It was also proposed that NAFCON would take over the responsi-
bility for procurement and distribution of fertili'ars by the
end of 1984, along with some of the staff of FPDD that would be
found suitable. What remained of' FPDD after the handover would
constitute the Secretariat of the National Fertilizer Coordina-
ting Comittee and would be responsible also for the formulation
of policies on fertilizers and related matters, fertilizer
research and development, and fertilizer use and demonstration
issues in the country.
2.2.1 Maior changes
In 1984, the FPDD was strengthened with 3 consultants, while in
1985 and 1986, the number of experts were increased to 5. Scme
of the proposed top posts could not be filled, hence FPDD was
reorganised internally to make up for the gaps that existed.
Where key staff were not available, appropriate redeployments
were made from other departments of the ministry to nsure
compliance with the loan proposals.
In the initial reorganisation, three sub-units of procurement,
distribution and logistics, and planning policy (data
compilation and monitoring) were created out of the former
operations section. Later in 1985, computer programming and
data analysis sub-unit was added to the planning and policy
section. The distribution section was further divided into port
operations and movement units. The accounts section was divided
into sub sections of accounts payable (international banking
transac- tions, government funding, letters of credit,
transporters and clearing agents bills) and accounts receivable
(Agency invoicing and collection).
The recruited experts worked with the heads of the major units
of procurement, distribution and logistics, accounts and
computer programming. FPDD and redeployed staff from the
ministry handled other sub-sections of Administratica.r Movement,
Port operations, Account receivable, Account payable, and
Management Information Service (MIS). In all, the loan
introduced 6 senior staff including the consultants, and 55
junior staff, on special contract a-rangements, used
predominantly in the monitcring of port activities. Thus, the
total staff strength of FPDD vas increased from 81 before the
loan to 142 during the loan pe-iod.
The second major change was the establishment of a nationwide
courier communication facility between the headquarters and



_ 15 -
various distribution or user agencies, while the third was the
development of an invoicing/billing system which facilitated the
success recorded in the funds recovered from user agencies.
Those changes contributed to the success during the project
years. The now arrangement not only allowed for delegation oe
authority, but also encouraged team work and better
intra-organisational coordination. It facilitated better and
smoother liaison with non-ministerial interfacing agencies such
as the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC)  Central Water
Transportation Company (CUWC), Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA)o,
Central Bank of Nigeria (CON1) etc.
The project proposed that a National Fertilizer Coordinating
Committee (NFCC) was to be set wp with PPDD as the Secretariat
after the transfer of the commercial activities. It was to be
responsible for policy matters affecting fertilizer pricing$
use, regulation and control. It was also to ensure effective
liaison between government and research institutes,
universities, local fertilizer manufacturers, users and other
relevant agencies.
The committee was set up by government as proposed, in 1985. A
draft decree based on the legal and regulatory framework study
was prepared and is being processed by government. The decree
when passed will regulate and control the quality, handling and
fertilizer activities in the country.
The NFCC also set up an advisory organ known as the National
rertilizer Technical Comittee (NPTC), which handles the
technical and research aspects of fertilizer use in the country.
Through the assistance of the two committees, the VPDD in 1986,
put in place a national fertilizer demonstration programme. The
programe is aimed at providLng constant research information on
fertilizer use throughout the country. It is operated through
selected research institutes in the five ecological zones of the
country namely, South East, South West, North East, North West
and Savannah/Kiddle belt zones. Activities in each zone are
controlled by a zonal coordinator who reports to national
coordinator locatel presently at Ibadan. The programme is
funded by tho FIP.
2.2  ImDimentation Shortfalls
The implementation of the loan agreement suffered some
organisational shortfalls in the following areas:
(1) The ministry wa" unable to provide the required level of
manpower support to give FPDD the desired strength for
chieving the set goals. While some posts were filled
up through internal reorganisation by the FPDD, others
such as those 'of the Lay and Market Intelligence
officers remained vacant throughout the project years.
The difficulty in recruiting personnel of the desired
calibre was due to two main reasons:



- 16 -
(a) Civil servants-were reluctant to accept such
new posts especially considering the high
degree of uncertainty of the fate of the FPW
staff after the transition, i.e. after
procurement and distribution activities would
have been handed over to NAFCON as proposed.
(b) Sufficient time was not allowed for budgetaxy
provisions for the stuff.
Moreover, NAFCON was reluctant to accept the staff that
were already in the programme as they preferred starting
up with a team under their own direct employment.
(2) FPDD during the loan period, handled both the commercial
and policy activities in the fertilizer sector. It
combined the responsibilities for procurement and
distribution of fertilizers and the Secretariat for the
NFCC and NFTC. This created some problems as a
government organisation. FPDD's attempt at solving
these problems by separating these two major roles
through the privatisation of fertilizer procurement and
marketing failed. The National Council for Agriculture
(NCA) during the later part of 1986 rejected a proposal
by the FPDD to set up a marketing company charged with
ihe responsibility for importation and marketing of
fertilizers in the country.
2.2.3  Manpower Develooment
The loan proposed the training of key FPDD personnel in areas
that will enhance the efficient performance of their duties
and also prepare them for the new role after the transition.
Training of the staff did not commence until 1986 when a
total of 15 key FPDD personnel were trained in various areas
under cour,es arranged by the International Pertilizer
Developme1s' Centre (I?DC). Nine persons attended courses in
fertilizer iarketing and handling, two persons on the use of
micro computers, and four persons on quality control and
regulations in the fertilizer sector.
The training commenced so late in the loan period that some
relevant areas were not covered. Necessary training could
not be provided in the areas of port operations and handling
of fertilizers, planning and data analysis for the fertililw
sector and in fertilizer use efficiency management.
The loan envisaged that at least 22 members of staff of FIPD
should be trained specially in checking and sampling of
fertilizers, but only 2 persons were given some rudimentazy
training in thWs area while training in the following major
areas were not covered - procurement, port operations and
fertilizer handling, stock control and management, fertilizer
marketing and distribution, fertilizer use efficiency,



_ 17 -
research management, fertilizer information and use
development and general administration in the fertilizer
sector.
2.3  Fertilizer Supply and Demand
Fertilizer requirements for any year during the period 1984
to 1986 was determined after previous consumption trends wpre
closely examined.  Requisitions, supplies and use figures AH
were obtained from States, ADP'S, RBRDA's and other users.
In 1984, the assumption was that with the start up of several
phased ADPs in the south, fertilizer consumption would
gradually increase. Thus, of the 835,000 tonnes projected in
1984, 717,220 tonnes were supplied to user agencies in the
states; 608,097 tonnes was consumed, leaving a buffer stock
of 292,527 tonnes which was carried over to 1985. The total
projected consumption for 1985 was 1,079,000 tonnes, while
1,000,379 tonnes was supplied to states. The carry over
stock into 1986 was 402,300 tonnes. The annual consumption
for 1984 and 1985 were over estimated because of the
assumptions that many government projects were expected to
start during these years. However, for 1986, a more
realistic estimate of fertilizer requirement of 863,215
tonnes was made by the 2nd Fertilizer Loan Report. Out of
this quantity 574,620 tonnes were supplied to the states with
a carry over stock of 256,622 tonnes into the next crop year.
Table 2.1 shows the total fertilizer requirement, the
quantity supplied and carried over as buffer stock during the
period.
Table 2.1:  Fertilizer Requirement Supp2lies and Carry Over
Stock I984 - 1986
Year    Requirement  Supplies to States  Buffer   % of Buffer
and Agencies        Stock    to Supplies
1984      835,000       717,220           292,527       40%
1985     1079,000      1,000,329          402,300       40%
1986      863,215       574,620           256,622       44%
Source:   FPDD
2.3.1  Pertilizer Allocation to States and Agencies
States' requirements were usually based on past consumption
trends and projected use. FPDD allocations to states and
agencies were based on the expected total actual fertilizer
availability depending on the imports. Since fertilizer
availability was always lower than requirements, allocations
were made after FPDD had made downward adjustments in
accordance with the final import quantities.
in 1984, for example, allocations to some states were



- 18 -
affected by the cancellations of the supply of 90,000 tonnes
of urea and 50,000 tonnes of SSP respectively.
Tables 2.2., 2.3 and 2.4 show the fertilizer supplies by type
to states in 1984, 1985 and 1986, respectively. States had a
stronger preference for the compound fertilizer than for the
straight types. This resulted in rejections of some alloca-
tions which affected distribution efficiency in each year.
During the project years, more than 79% of the total
fertilizer imports/supplies were consumed in the Northern
States of Nigeria. Although the project had envisaged a
gradual increase in fertilizer consumption in the South with
the commencement of the phased ADP's during the period, the
increase, if any, was not significant as most of the projects
did not take off and where they did, they were yet to be,
properly established to make any noticeable impact.
Table 2.2    Fertilizer Supplies to States 1984
tate      UREA    AS      CAN    SSP    BSP _SP 15-15-1S 12-12-17 DAP  TOTAL
buja        -      -      3500   2600    -      -     6720    -       -    12820
nambra     2360  2600    5900   1800    -    2350  16500  12600  3000   47100
auchi     10500   -      12930   7000    -      -     3800    -    7000   7S430
endel      4725   340      700    500    -       40  10080   9300   600   26785
enue      19800  6955   13500   4450   300    -    27000   1000  5000   78205
orno      11700   500      -     4400    -      -    19S00    -    4000   40100
/River      160   150      300     60    -      200   3500   2300    -      6670
ongola     6000  3400    1500   3800    -       100  13200    100  5000   33100
mo          300   900    1500    500    -    1500   1700  15300    -    37000
aduna     18140    -    42920  25600  16270   -    84500    -   14000  201430
ano       43500    -    53000  13500   6500          12000    -       -   236500
wara        -       -     4300   3300    -      -    13000   3000  1000   24600
agos       2350    -       -      -      -       80   1200    -       -     3630
iger       6000   500    4700   5400   1200   -    12250    500  4000   34SS0
gun        2100  1000    2100      20    -      850   4500   5200    -    15770
ndo        2090  6100      500    810           650   7250   1950    -    19350
yo         2675  1375    6460   1510    -        60  13100   2270   200   27650
lateau    18000  1800   33900  18950    -       -    28500    -   16000  117150
ivers      1000   800      120   1400     60   820   4150   4000    60   12400
okoto     14600  3200   10400   6100   8350   -    29000    -   20000   91650
OTAL     166000 30120  198230 101700  32680  6650 468950  52720 80060 1141910
inm.=- mi.m umw.amu                mm.muNmumrnmm2BWUuU-  ....



Table 2.3 Fertilizer Supplies to States 1985
State       AS    CAN      SSP    aSP   MOP lS-iS-1S 12-12-17 DAP  UREA  TOTAL
Abuja         -     3405   1800   1675   -       6800    -        -      -    13680
Anambra      2600   2415      -      960    -   20800  14050      -   2946   46711
Bauchi       -    11468   6600   4105          36806    -    6955  11796   77730
Bendel        840    732    500      -      -    9688   8712   S70   2918   23960
Benue       6950  13548   1430   2000    -   27855   1300  4655  17186   74984
Borno         500   1216   1660    8SS    -   21464    -    3780  13179   42654
Cross River  150    325       -      _      _    4542   3473    a      635    9125
Gongola      3410   156S      -    1900    -   14845   1040  4830   6097   33687
Imo          960   1099      -       -    660  15051  11679    -       330   29779
Kaduna         -   41685  24461  15400    -   85056        -  15643  19139  201384
Kano          -   55352  14244   8637    -  112127        -    960  41586  232906
Kwara          -    4808   4004    a       390  13999   2975  1000   1500   28676
Lagos         -       -      -      -      -    3S65       67    -    2392    6024
Niger         565   4698   4339   2297    -   13603    510  4353   6180   36545
)gun         929   2080      -       29    -    4266   4670    -    2226   14263
Ondo        5100    500    600    439    -    7145   6435    -    2115   22334
3yo         1470   6450   1200   17SS    -   12273   3875   22S   2368   29616
Plateau     1830  34426   8409   5573    -   33339    -   14960  20627  119164
Rivers       S00    170      -      320   755   3032   2130    60   1100    8067
3okoto      456S  12373   5661   9180    -   29065    -   19892  26137  106873
3HORT LANDED 318    385      -       -     -    lOSS    864  2172       47    4841
IAND TOTAL 30750 198700  55125 74968  1805  476376  61780 82995 180504 1163000
ible 2.4  Fertilizer Sunplies to States 1986
itate       AS    CAN   UREA    SSP   BSP    MOP  iS-15-15 12-12-17  DAP TOTAL
*fitp     --a510 -          -       300    -    -       540      -      -     1350
snambra     3210   245    200    1254    -    a        7231   4325      -    16405
sauchi       690  7822  14390    9225    -            11342     -    4460   47929
'endel      10S0  1350   3210       930  1S00   -      4955   2140    390   14025
ienue      13290  5670   7648    5970    -    a        9415    300   SS10   49303
'orno       1110    -    4710    4010    -    a        7670      -    2790   20290
ross River  -      260    400       -     -    a      5418   3059      -      9137
ongola     6020    -    7980    6320    30   -        6464      -    8022   34836
Mo         1050  3220      -       600    -    -    21332   7612       -    33514
aduna         30 10275  14207   17176 12757   -    28383        -   10800   93628
ano         -    3350   1417    3384    -    a    12456         -      -    20607
wara         760  2290   2495       -    240   -      9628    630   3098   19141
agos        -      -      120       -     -    a      1020      -      -      1140
.'ig!ar     5170  3930   3360    8380    -    a        7920     -    3875   32635
gun          920  1900    510      120    -    -       3830    100      -     7380
.ndo         -     -        90      -      30   -       -       -       -      120
yo          2100  4950   1310    1355    -    -    10487    600   1475   22277
'lateau     5550 15501  16734   13361  1200   -    11520        -   12815   76651
ivers       1S0   -      1600      240   150   -      1385    920      -      429S
okoto       7090  7150   6922    4590  7600   -    16365        -   13848   59665
TC                                                            9902     -      9902
otal      48700 68013  87303   77215 143S7   -   177361  29588  67083  574620
__                a   _    ____    _ _    __ ____  -_  _________



- 20 -
2.4.   Fertilizer Procurement
The major goals of planning in this area were to ensure that
procurement is carried out in a timely manner so that
internal distribution mechanisms were effectively utilized to
provide procedure for procurement that would result in cost
savings. In this regard. procurement and distribution were
synchronised such that fertilizers were delivered before the
onset of rains which varied in the different ecological
zones. Thus, the use of isochromes as target for delivery to
retail distribution outlets was adopted. Generally,
fertilizer purchases commenced by February in Southern
Nigeria, and by April in the Northern parts of the country.
FPDD actually started procurement processes ten to eleven
months earlier.
Fertilizers were procured during the period using the ICd
procurement procedure, which was a major innovation in the
procurement of fertilizer in the country. The procurement
procedures were designed to:
(a) encourage price competitiveness;
(b) ensure that discipline and fairness prevailed in the
tender evaluation and award processes:
Cc) offer buyers the opportunity of ensuring quality
products, guarantee performance by suppliers, and
programme purchases to suit perculiar local conditionst
(d) guarantee payment and thus induce confidence in
suppliers which generally result in better prices and
lower overall costs.
Procurement during the perlod was in accordance with the
guidelines for procurement under the World Bank loans and
International Development Association (IDA) credits. All the
above enumerated opportunities were reasonably exploited
during the period 1984 to 1986. Total cost of awards when
compared with World Bank estimated costs for each year
reflected substantial savings as a result of the procurement
procedures -adopted.
For example in 1984 and 1986, the actual cost of awards of US
$132 million and $100 million were lower than the estimated
US $S50mi1lion and $110million respectively.  The loan was
initially negotiated for 1984 and 1985 cropping seasons, but
it was eventually extended to cover 1986 crop year imports,
due largely to the savings which resulted from mainly the
procurement procedure and the despatch earnings due to
effective general operations in the ports. The total tim
required in the procurement process was a minimum of 34 weeks
assuming no major procedural bottlenecks occured.



- 21 -
Table 2.5 shows the details of the total quantities of
fertilizers procured by types during the project years.
Table 2.5     Fertilizer Procurement Quantities 1984 - 1986
1984     1985      1986    TOTAL   TOTAL NUTRIENT
TYPE          MT       MT         MT      MT         '0OONT
A.S 21-0-0       42,000   30,750   50,000   122,750         21
CAN 26-0-0      146C500  198,500   72.000    41,650         26
UREA 46-0-0      50,000  180,449   90,000   320,449         46
SSP 0-18-0       70,000   25,500   70,000   192,500         18
DSP 0-18-0       77,000   55,125   20.000   152.125         18
MDP 0-0-60       lS,000      -                  l5,000      60
15-15-15        284,500  484,314  190,000   958,314         45
12-12-17-2       20.000   61,781   30,000   111,781         41
nAP 18-46-0      S0,000   82,998   70,000   202,998         64
TOTAL IMPORTS   755.000  146,417  590,000  2194,567
SSP Local        35,000   27,585    7,000    69,5ss         18
Total
Procurement     790,000 1174,002  597,000  2264,152        357
masuumem murniurnium    mue
Sources FPDD
A total of 2,264,152 ton"ns of fertilizers were procured during
the project period.  This is equivalent to 3S7,000 nutrient
tonnes.
2.4.1  Procurement From Local Sources
FSFC Kaduna was the only local factory producing fertilizer. FPDD
purchased directly all the SSP the factory produced. table 2.6
shows the production and capacity utilisation of the plant since
1976.
Table 2.6  Production Capacity Utilization PSFC S&duna, Nigeria
Year          Production             Capacity Utilisation
(tonnes)                     (I)
1976/77          21,406                       21.4
1977/78          10,832                       10.8
1978/79          27,553                       27.5
1979/80          36,729                       36.7
1980             24,729                       24.7
1981             48,715                      48.7
1982            4*,000                        45.0
1983             30,000                       30.0
1084             25,000                       25.0
198S             27,585                       27.6
1986              7,000                        7.0



- 22 -
During the project period, only a total of 59,585 tonnes was
procured trom the factory. This figure is still below the annual
installed capacity of the plant.
he National Fertilizer Company of Nigeria (NAFCON) plant wa
scheduled to be operational in 1987. It's fortilizer could
therefore not be available for use during the project years.
PPDZ# in its procurement plan for 1987, excluded Urea on the
assumption that it would be supplied from the local plant whose
capacity was estimated to be capable of satisfying the country's
present urea consuaption.
2.4.2 Procurement Problems and Shortfalls
The major problems were as followas
a)   The late release of government funding affected procuremnt
throughout the loan period.  In 1984, for eample, the
combined effect of the lato transfer of matching funds
required to place orders and the problem  asociated with the
appointment of the correspondent bank for the opening of
letters of credit, dolayed the conclusion of procurement
arrangement and affected shipping schedules adversely.
b)  The problem of change in the appointment of the correspondent
bank became a recurrent feature throughout the loam period.
In 1984, for example, it was Bankers Trust Company while 8CC!
operated in 1985 and 1986.
In each year, the delay in goveriment decision to change to a
different bank adversely affected procurement and shipping
plans for that year. Table 2.7 shows the planned arrivals
against actual arrivals of fertilizers from 1984 to 1986.
the table shows that deliveries were generally late during
the loan period. With the exception of 1984 when about 70*
of planned deliveries actually arrived by end of Nay, only
about 33.9 and 36.31 of planned arrivals actually arrived by
the same period in 1985 and 1986, respectively. In essence,
an average of 611 of Imports arrived late during the project
period. This affected the distribution stratey and plan,
compelling deliveries to be made lnitially to the south, then
to the north and later to the south again.
c) The delay in the opening of letters of credit (MCs) led to
the los of 90,000 tonnes of Urea ln 1984  ftilure to open
LCs as per contract allowed suppliers to leally get out of
contract as a result of escalating urea prices ln the world
market.



- 23 -
Table 2.7       Planned and Actual Arrivals of Fertilizers 1984 - 1986
(1) 
1984                1985                1986
Planned   Actual     Planned  Actual    Planned   Actual
Arrivals            Arrivals            Arrivals
January            43         4.1        40         -       20.5
February           24         9.4        28                 37.5
March               23       14          20        8.9      30.5      10.0
April              la        16           9.4    14          7.5     10.5
May                 -        27            2.6   -11         4.0      15.8
June                -        16.6                 13.2                  .0
July                         12                    7.3                 J.0
August                                            12.8                17.5
September                                       . 23.7                 6.2
October                                            9.1
Planned cummulative
May ending        100                  100                 100
Cumulative May
ending                       70.S                 33.9                36.3
Totals            100       100        100       100       100       100
d)   The arrival of fertilizer types made it difficult to
properly synchronise arrival schedules with the agronomic
needs of the country. It was not possible to Import all the
required basals at the onset of rains when their application
was most appropriate.
e)   In order to cope with the time of arrival suppliers had to
depend on the use of larger ships to bring in the products.
These ships could only be accommodated at the Lagos ports of
Tin Can and Apapa due to the draught length limitation of
the other ports. This congested the Lagos ports while the
other ports were under-utilised. It also had implications
for transport costs as the distance fertilizer had to move
could not be reduced through optimal allocation from other
ports.
f)  There was no market intelligence officer to monitor
international price trends, and local price movements. ?PDD
had to monitor the international price trend through the
Green Market publications IBRD pub1icatiors as well as telex
hot wire. The findings from the above led to price
re-negotiation in 1985.
g)   Purchases during the period were arranged through massive
tenders which proved disadvantageous because it exposed the
purchase not only to price gang-ups by international



- 24 -
fertilizer manufacturing and supply cartels, but also to the
oligopolistic designs of some powerful and big international
fertilizer merchants. There was no quick and reliable means
of cross-checking whether quantity, quality and bagging
specifications of shipments actually corresponded with the
oontractual terms. However, samples were often drawn and
sent to the Federal Institute of Industrial Research Oshodis
IAR&T and ZITA in Ibadan. Also, drop tests were carried out
at the shipside to ensure that contract specifications were
met. Table 2.8 show., the fertilizer procurement prices from
1984 to 1986 for the various products.
Table 2.8   Fertilizer Procurement Prices 1984 - 1986
Type                      Price Per Tonne.
1984      1985      1986
$/MT      $/MT      $/MT
A. S                           102        131        97
CAN                            132        140       122
UREA                           105        223       127
SSP                            106        109        99
BSP                            106        109        89
MOP                            131        n/a       n/a
15-15-15                       175        206       157
12-12-12                       177       202        101
DAP                            281        258       227
/'MT      "/MT      */MT
SSP Local                      200        200       200
2.5 Port Operations and Throughput
The Nigerian seaports were generally less busy due to various
government import restrictions and the general economic recession
during the loan period. Thus, fertilizer ships had free access
to berths than they used to prior to the loan period. However.
the general reorganisation of the FPDD during the period enhanced
prompt response to operational problems thereby increasing ships
turn round periods.
In 1984, about 76% of the total imports were distributed through
the Lagos (Tin Can island and Apapa) ports, 13% through
Port-Harcourt,while the other two ports handled about 11% ( see
Table 2.9). The situation was not generally different for 1985
and 1986 as shown in Tables 2.10 and 2.11 respectively. Imports
were not as evenly,spread among the ports as envisaged by the
project reports, primarily because of the relatively easier
handling and better port facilities in Lagos. The installation
of facilities recommended in the project proposal was not fully
effected.



_ 25 -
Table 2.9:  Fertilizer Port ThroughPut-  1984
Month      TinCan    Apapa    P/H    Calabar    Warri    Total
January     37,387       -    10,000       -                37,987
February    42,551   19,270      -      10,041        -     71,862
Karch       58,232   14,328  10,500   20,000    5,113   109,173
April       72,234   41,119  20,000                   -    133,353
May         76,755   62,750  32,325   10,000    5,000   207,040
June        14,736   26,528  23,625   10,500   10,302   115,891
July        71,618    7,500       -        -          -       -
August        -         -                                     -
Septemter     -         -        -         -          -       -
October                -         -                   -       -
November      -         -         -        -
December      -         -        -         -          -       -
Total      414,523  171.475  96,450   61,041   20,415   763,924
Source: FPDD - Lagos.
Table 2.10 Fertilizer Port Throughput - 1985 (Based on Manifest
Quantty)
month      TinCan   Apapa    P/H       Calabar    Warri    Total
January       -        -        -         -          -        -
February      -        -        a         -          a
March       32,250  54,000      -         -        5,250     91,500
April       40,850  50,443  21,000   20,500          -      142,793
Nay         46,165  15,750  41,440   10,450          -      113,805
June        87,500  14,300  10,500   31,003    12,111    135,414
July        27,750  11,000  10,044   21,000        5,000     74,794
August     102,522  14,000  10,074        -        5,300    131.896
September  148,609  36,750  32,000   20,500        5,025    242,884
October     36,000  26,250      -      31,495        -       93,745
November      -        -        -         -          -         -
December      -        -        -         -          -         -
TOTAL      501,646 221,993 114,984  124,948    32,685  1,026,831
Source: FPDD - Lagos.



_ 26 -
Table 2.11   Fertilixer Port ThroughEjt 1986
Month      TinCan    Apapa      P/l    Calabar    Warri    Total
January      -          -        -        -          -        -
February     -         -         -        -
March      20,000    9,902   9.677    18,000       7,000   54,677
April      20.000    9.902   9,889      2,000      5,000   46,731
May        60,000   19,887                -          -     79.889
June       42,000            19.880    20,000      5,300   87,180
July       77.441   47,500   9,762    10,000         -    144,703
August     60,000   15.000       -     10,000    10,000   95,000
September    -       16,000   9,557    10.000              35,557
October    24,000             9,960       -          a        -
November     -          -        -        -                   -
December     -                             - -
Total     303,441  108,289  68,725    70,000    27,300  577,755
Source: PPDD - Lagost
Table 2,'.2 shows the summary of port throughput for fertilizer
between 1984 and 1986.
7he table shows that imports were not properly spread during the
months of the year, but generally, over 55 percent of total
Imports during the period arrived after the month of June when
first planting in most parts of the country would have been over.
About 68% of the fertilizers arrived during the rainy season
(April - August) causing significant delays in port discharge.
While discharges commenced early enough in 1984 (Jan.), it took
off in March in the other years.
Table 2.12   Fertilizer Port ?hroushDut 1984 - 1986
Month          1984         1985          1986           Total
January       37,987          -              -          37,987
February      71,862          -              -          71,862
March        108,173       42,900        54,677        205S750
April        133,353      142,793         46#791       322,937
May          207,040      113,805        79,887        400,732
June         11S,891      113,414         87,138       338,43S
July          89,618       74,794       144,703        309,11S
August          -         131,896         95,000       226,896
September       -         242,884        35,557        278,441
October         -          93,745         33,960       127,705
November        -             a              -            -
December        -             -          .                -
763,924     978,231        577,70S      2,319,860
Sources FPDD Lagos.



- 27 -
2.5.1  Customs Clearance of Pertilizers
The clearance of fertilizers fiom the Customs and the payment of
the Nigerian Ports Authority saatutory dues which was hitherto
performed by FPDD appointed contractors was transferred to the
Government Coastal Agency (GCA), as a result of a change in
government policy on clearance of all government cargoes. This
multiplied the problems of ports operations because-the Agency
wag not funded, had inadequate facilities, operated bureau-
cratically and therefore, very inefficient. On the average, a
fertilizer vessel spent about 4 days at berth on arrival before
discharge commenced. This led to the setting up of different
ports operations task force/committees to monitor and augment the
efforts of the Agency.
2.5.2  Demurrage/DespatcL
The introduction of improved imports planning, properly
coordinated discharge plans, and the use of more facilities in
ports operations, all resulted in much shorter turnaround time
for fertilizer vessels. Table 2.13 shows the demurrage and
despatch earnings during the loan period.
In 1984, total despatch was US.$851,000 with a total demurrage
claim of US.$104#000p the net despatch earning was US.$747,000.
For 198S, total despatch was US$852,000, demurrage claim totalled
US$1,241,000 giving a net demurrage of US$389,000.
The net despatch earnings in 1986 was US$887,000 as no demurrage
was incurred from the 46 vessels that discharged.
Table 2.13 Demurrage and Despatch 1984 - 1986
Desurrage                          Despatch
No. of    Tonnes   Amount      No. of   Tonnes   Amount
Ships              $000        Ships               $000
1984:
Tin Can     -          -        -          28        415     471
Apapa       7           92     104           7        s0     109
P/H         -          -        -           9         86     103
Calabar           -             -           6         61     110
Warri       -          -        -           4         21      58
Total       7          92      104         54        603     6S1
______     __          _ _       __       _



- 28 _
Table 2.13 Cont'd.
1985:
TinCan      5           82     113          22       381     442
Apapa      10          144    1106           8        98      91
P/H         2          21       17         16        165     129
Calabar     1           10       5          14       1S0     131
Warri       -            -       -           6        33      S9
Total      18          287    1241          66       827     852
1986:
TinCan      -            -       -         18        312     539
Apapa                    -       -           8       100     151
P/H         -           -        -          8         78      83
Calabar     -            -       -           7        66      70
Warr        -            -       -           5        27      44
Total                    -       -          46       475     887
Grand
Total:      25           349   1345        166      2065    2590
Sources FPDD Lagos.
'.5.3  Quality Control and Supervision
Fertilizer imports for 1984, and in the previous years were
subjected to preshipment inspection by Societe Generale De
Surveillance (SGS) which certified that the fertilizer bags
contained the correct weight and product quality. However, in
1985, the Federal Government of Nigeria appointed Messrs Bureau
Veritas and Cotecna International Limited to supervise shipments
from Europe and Far East, respectively. On arrival, samples of
the products were sent to the Pharmaceutical Board of Nigeria and
the Food and Drug Administration which carried out the analysis.
However, their findings did not vary significantly with the
contract specifications.
2.5.4 Communication
The loan provided for the purchase and installation of radio
communications equipment in order to facilitate efficient
operations by FPDD. There was no direct comunication between
FPDD headquarters and the seaports or the zonal offices. It
could not, for bureaucratic reasons, procure and install the
communications equipment. It had to depend on ad-hoc
arrangements, courier services and radio links of other Federal
departments for its contacts.
Quick feed back information from the ports and agencies was very



_ 29 -
difficult and made control by FPDD an uphill task, given the
magnitude of imports during the period.
2.6  Fertilizer Narketino and DietrlBution
Distribution activities during the period were primarily geared
to achieve the first major objective of the loan project which
was "to ensure an adequate and timely supply of fertilizer to the
Nigerian farmers". Although procurement arrangements were
generally late during the period, enough shipments arrived in
sufficient time to allow effective distribution planning and
execution. Two problems confronted the distribution exercise
generally during the period and these weres (a) the tight or
compressed ship arrival schedules and (b) the late arrival of
basal fertilizers, given the general rainfall distribution
pattern in the country.
During the project life, 1984-1986, the federal Government had'
organised procurement and distribution to states through FPDD.
Extension and promotion of fertilizer as well as intra-state
distribution and sales were carried out by state governmenta, or
government projects, some of which were assisted by the World
Bank, and also through private enterprises. Essentially, at the
farm level, fertilizer marketing was effected by the following
organisations:
(1) States Ministries of Agriculture(MO&).
(2) World Bank - Assisted ADPU/ADAs either throughs
(i) Commercial Service Units under project management OR
(ii) Semi-autonomous companies (registered under companies
act) wholly owned by government and financially
supported by the project.
(3) River Basin Development Authorities
(4) Co-operatives.
(5) Traders.
The relative importance of som of these major organisations in
marketing and distributing fertilizer from 1984 to 1986 is shown
in Table 2.14.
The major characteristic of the state level distribution was
direct sales by state governments or government proje'-ts to
farmers through farm level government stores (IFLC) or Agro
Service Centre (ASC) or Farm Service Centre (FSC) which, in most
cases, were constrained by government financial instructions and
stores regulations.  ecause of civil service regulations,
farmers had to got approval from more than one authority and
could only purchase at given hours or cortain days.



- 30 -
Table 2.14s Fertilizer A;location to Institutions in Nigeria.
1904-1986.
(0oo tonnes).
Project                1984     t       1985     a       1986      S
1.  ADPS/AM.           414.2   68.0    485.9   62.6    394.9   68.7
2. MOAs                120.8   19.9    148.2   19.0      91.21  15.9
3. Ram$                 60.1    9.9    133.1   17.1      42.5    7.3
4.  PLANTATIONS          9.1    1.5       2.8    0.36     -
5. COOPEETXvZS           -        -        -      -      17.4    3.0
6. RESEARCN INSTITUTES  3.8    0.6        2.8    0.36     -      -
1/
7. OTHERS                -        -        -      -      28.4   4.9
TOTAL              608.1  100       776.7  100       574.6  100
Source FPDD, Lagos.
From Tabl  2.14 it is shown that the ADPs/ADA  were the major
sources of fertilizer to farmers as they accounted for over 60%
of the total fertilizer distributed or allocated to different
agencies throughout the project life. The ADPs/ADAs were able
to achieve such level of performance due to widespread
establishment of Pnam Srvice Centre* in the project areas and
Intensive extension activities. By 1985 a total of 953 FSCs
were established in 10 ADPs/AMs and most ADPs/ADAs were able to
achieve extension farmers ratio of 1S500. Other Agencies that
were significantly involved In the fertilizer marketing were MO
and RBOA*s. It was noted that at the later part of the project
life (1986) the cooperatives and some private organisations were
allocated fertilizers for distribution. This signified an
improvement in the distribution channel.
Given the likelihood of an expanded future role for the private
sector in fertilizer distribution as envisaged in the project
proposale APWEPU conducted empirical studies in same project
areas to determine the markot shares of and prices charged by
official ond quasi-official sources (MSC, Agric Supply Companles
and co-operative) and private traders. 2/ The result of te
studies sbowed that the main source of fertilizer to farmer was
through official sources (Farm Services Ceatres a F118)
accounting for over 80%, while private soures accounted for
less than 20%. Also, prices offered by private organisatian
were higher tba  the official source over the project life (5W
report).
However, in same of the project areas in the Southern ad
Northern states, the private sector market share wa higher in
1/ This includ* larg* companies like NTC* Total Agricl. texaco
Fam Agric. etc.
2/ AM=EPU Larsg Scal* Reconnaissance reports for various ADPS.



- 31 -
1985 than in 1984 (Imo, Bida, Lafia, Kand Zone 2, and Sokoto
Eastern Zone). Overall, trader market shares were generally
higher in the South5 thus there was higher level of demand from
official sources in the north. There seemed to be no close
relationship between traders market share and the size of
purchases or length of project activity. Thus, it may be
presumed that improved supplies from official sources drove
farmers away from traders while traders probably had problems in
financing supplies at the same level as in previous years.
In general, co-operatives and private retailers were not
important sources of fertilizer to farmers.
2.7  Fertilizer Transportation
2.7.1  Project Proposal
The project noted that the major issue in fertilizer transporta-
tion is the inter-modal strategy. It was proposed that effort
should be geared towards the determination of appropriate
intermodal mix for fertilizer distribution from ports/plants to
different destinations based on costs, capacity and timeliness
of delivery 'to different states/agencies.
Since transportation is linked to storage, it was proposed that
adequate arrangement should be made to deal with transit and
storage losses. Also proposed were the preparation of
co-ordinated supply plan product-wise and month-wise, from each
port to different states.
2.7.2  Modal Mix
Fertilizers were transported to the various state depots by
rail, waterways and road transports.  Table 2.15 shows the
intermodal mix of fertilizer transportation during the project
years.
Table 2.15 Intermodal Mix of Fertilizer TransPortation 1984-1986
1984            1985           1986
Mode      Tonnes    %   Tonnes       8   Tonnes   8      Total      %
Tonnes
Road      716,000  90   1,066,144  93  579,847  98.4  2,361,991  93.4
Rail       75,564   9       70,760   6    7,861   1.3    154,185   6.3
Waterways   8,436   1.0      2,008   1    2,000   0.3      12,436   0.!
Total     790,000 100   1,138,912 100  589,708 100    2,528,612 100
The table revealed that the modal mix of transportation during
the project life weighted heavily in favour of road, accounting
for over 90% of the fertilizers transported. it was noted that
the use of road continued to be dominant while that of rail and
waterways declined. By 1986, 98% of the total fertilizer was



- 32 -
transported by road while very negligible proportion was
transported by waterways, probably due to availability of
lorries and speed.
The declining importance of rail and waterways in fertilizer
transportation over the project life could be attributed to
inherent limitation in infrastructural development, limited
areas which rail and water transportation could effectively
cover and the longer turn around time required for the other
modes.
Transportation by rail was also limited because of operational
and organisational inefficiencies of the Nigerian Railway
Corporation (NRC). The use of rail wagons involved
transhipment from rail heads to the depots (PDPs) by road which
had implications for costs, losses and also caused delays.
These factors, in addition to the problem of sparepartse
greatly hampered the effectiveness of the NRC. The Nigerian
Railway Corporation, however, has the potential for increased
participation in the movement of fertilizers, if more effective
liaison and coordination could be established with other
relevant agencies.
Waterways transport had extreme limitations, firstly because
few states could receive fertilizers through waterways, and
even in such cases, the waters were not navigable during most
part of the year. Secondly, use of barges involved multiple
handling and required special facilities, the absence of which
led to high transit losses. Use of waterways was also
uneconomic because the major carrier, Central Water Transport
Company Limited (CWTC), charged the same rate as those for road
transport. This was refltocted in the total performance of the
waterways when compared with other modes of fertilizer
movement.
Agencies had the responsibilities for intra-state transporta-
tion of fertilizers. This was effected mainly through road
(trucks). The transport requirement for each state depended on
the number of primary distribution points or destinations in
that state. Some agencies diverted FPDD appointed transporters
to the PDPs in order to save transport costs.
Intra-state transport rates differed among states. Generally,
while some states simply adopted the Federally fixed National
Transport Coordinating Commission (NTCC) ratess, others
negotiated rates through public tenders or directly with
transporters. Some states applied regulated rates similar to
those of Federal Government of Nigeria. The NTCC rates were as
follows:
Distance (KM)                Rate (Xobo/tonne/Rm)
30 -100                         30 -35
101 - 200                        16 - 20
201 - 300                        12 - 15



- 33 -
Agencies rates differed from stite to state depending on the
negotiation terms with the transporters within any particular
state. Effectively, rates ranged from 12 - 25 kobo/tonne/km in
the states, but areas with poor roads attracted higher rates,
while efficient organisations with longer distance to move
fertilizer negotiated relatively lower rates.
2.7.3 Transportation Costs
Interstate transport constituted a major cost component,
representing over 30% of the average farmgate cost of
fertilizer. The percentage cost increased to approximately 40
- 45% of total farmgate cost when intrastate transport was
added. Transport costs were reduced by complete elimination of
cross porting of fertilizers and minimising the distance that
fertilizer had to be moved. Road transportation rates were
fixed by the National Transport Coordinating Commission (NTCC)
of the Federal Ministry of Transport and Aviation. With the
introduction of SFEM by mid 1986, it was envisaged that
transport costs would increase by over 85% by 1987.
Table 2.16 shows the total cost and average cost/tonne of
transporting fertilizer from the ports to the Primary Delivery
points (PDP) for the modal mix. It is noted that despite the
fact that cost/tonne of waterways was relatively cheaper at
early stage of the project life it's use for fertilizer
transportation was minimal as reflected by the total quantity
of fertilizer transported (see Table 2.15). The inherent
limitation in infrastructural development explained the small
share of total quantity of fertilizers transported by water.
Table 2.16 Fertilizer Transportation Cost by Mode 1984 - 1986.
1984                1985               1986
Modes    Total    Average    Total   Average    Total Averaqe
cost    Cost        Cost   Cost         Cost  Cost
Million  N/Tonne   Million  N/Tonne   Million N/Tonne
Road       44.2    61.7       65.75     57.7       34.3    59.6
Rail        4.0    62.5         NA       NA         NA      NA
WaterWay   .0.5    50.0         NA       NA         NA      NA
Total/Mean 48.7    58.0       65.75     57.7       34.3    59.6
Sources FPDD, 1986.
Regarding the railway, though the cost structure over the
project life did offer economic superiority for a bulk
commodity like fertilizer (economies of scale), it was not
significantly used throughout the project life because of its
limited spread.  Also the cost per tonne was marginally more
than that of lorry which made it less attractive to use.



_ 34 -
At the early stage of the projecit life (1984-1985) FPDD
organised transportation of fertilizer from the ports to PDPs,
mainly through road movement. However, problems of late
delivery of fertilizer was usually encountered due to over-
whelming burden of administering many separate transport
contracts and delayed payment of transporters. Thus, with the
shifting of the responsibilities of transporting fertilizer
from PPDD to State in 1986, there had been considerable
improvemt.nt in the timely delivery of fertilizers.
2.7.4  Fertilizer Transportation Problems
The major problems which affected transportation of fertilizer
during the period under review included:
ti) High road rates which would have been cheaper if FPDD were
allowed to negotiate with truckers. The rates fixed by
the National Fertilizer Technical Committee (CFTC) were
about 20.5% more expensive than those paid by some private
sector organisations.
(ii) Delay in settlement of transporters claims: As a result
of bureaucracy and the unpredictable nature of supply of
funds to the Ministry, FPDD could not settle transport
claims promptly, which in many instances affected the
'supply of trucks to vessels. This had other implications
ir. addition to the obvious delay in the discharge of
vessels.
-    it led to the dumping of fertilizers in transporters'
warehouses pending the time funds were availablel
-    it encouraged increased sales in the black markets
which developed in order to meet high demand during
peak use season.
(iii) Poor Rail Performance: The obvious inability of the
Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) to cope with allocated
tonnages, despite its potentials, led to overdependence on
road transport. As a result, the rail capacity, despite
it's potentials for increased use, was underutilised.
(iv) Ineffective Intrastate Tranprt Facilities: May State
ministries and fertilizer distribution agences could not
maintain their lorry fleets due to budgetary constraints
and bureaucracy. Thus, such ministries resorted to
diversion of trucks from Lagos to various PDPs, and
sometimes fertilizers were left in central stores till the
effective application periods were almost over.



_ 35 -
2.7.5  Fertilizer Distribution Monito_ inq
In order to reduce the effect of the above problems on the
overall coordinated supply plan, the FPDD set up monitoring
offices to supervise and ensure the proper handling and
eventual delivery of fertilizer to designated PDPs. It created
four regional offices in the country. The North West and North
East were operated from Kaduna and Bauchi respectively, while
the South West and South East regional offices were run from
Port-Harcourt and Lagos. Records of weekly despatches of
fertilizers from the various seaports to relevant States were
forwarded to regional offices in order to facilitate follow-up
action. They, in turn, made monthly reports of any develop-
ments and progress in fertilizer distribution activities to the
headquarters. Thus, a close monitoring of distribution was
maintained and problems were solved as soon a they developed,
thereby enabling the FPDD to maintain a centrally coordinated
supply system to the States and agencies.
FPDD appointed some resident FGN officers as regional
coordinators for the fertilizer monitoring programme in the
zones in order to reduce costs. But experience showed that
these officers were too busy with other official function to
be of much affect.
2.8 Fertilizer Storage
Prior to the project years, fertilizer storage was carried out
at two levels - State depots and farm level, represented by
Agro and Farm Service Centres. This storage situation left
serious gaps at ports and regional levels. During the project
years it was planned that central depots should be geographi-
cally extended and used to store buffer inventory. Agencies
were also to expand their storage capacities while FPDD was to
establish port-based and in tranit storage facilities to store
fertilizer during periods of acute transport limitations.
2.8.1 The PPDD Stores
During the first year of loan (1984) FPDD acquired storage
capacity of 35,000 tonnes for Lagos only. By 198S, however,
the storage at the seaports were as followst
Lagos          90,000 tonne
Port-arcourt 15,000 tonnes
Calabar        10,000 tonnes
Warri          10,000 tonnes
Total FPDD storage capacity was 12S,000 tonnes by end of 1966.
This contributed in no small measure to achieving the quick



_ 36 -
28
turn around of vessels which led to the huge sums earned as
despatch from ships during 1985 and 1986 operations,
2.8.2  Agenc Level Stor@e@
Survey by IIDC showed that the number of warehouses increased from
963 in 1980 to 1,501 in 1984 and consequently increased storage
capacity from 478.160 tonnes in 1980 to 1,001,110 tonnes in 1984.
At present, there sems to be enough storage capacities at the
states' level when viewed nationally. However, some states lack
adequate storage facilities while the location in some make
optimal use difficult. Storage capacities within the states vary
as shown by recently concluded surveys in some states. Table
2.17 shows the storage facilities at the state level.
In some locations, storage capacities were less than supplies from
PPDD while it was adequate in others. Thus, fertilizers were
badly stored and exposed to adverse weather for long periods in
some states. There is therefore, a need to encourage states to
plan properly for their storage requirements in order to minimise
the losses that occur as a resuIt of inadequate storage.
It was noted that there was no definite policy on the distribution
of warehouses in relation to the quantity of fertilizer required
in each state. There is need to improve on the record of state
requirements and synchronize this with the store capacities In
states.
Table 2.17: States/Aaenev Level Storaae 1984 - 1986
States                   tonnage            Number of Stores
AbuJa                      1,000                   2
Anambra                   18,700                  28
Bauchi                    49,350                  7S
Bendel                    37,9S0                  21
Benue                     28,200                  76
Dorno                     99,200                 186
Cross River               14,850                  26
Gongola                   67,800                  53
Tao                       27,800                  37
Kaduna                   147,070                 215



- 37 -
Table 2.17 Cont'd.
Kano                      71,840                 167
Kwara                     49,700                 156
Lagos                      1,500                   3
Niger                     62,400                 120
Ogun                      38,400                  32
Ondo                      40,800                  62
OyC                       22,950                  46
Plateau                   72,400                  9S
Rivers                    23,000                  28
Sokoto                   126.000                  73
Total                  1,001,110               1,501
Sources PPDD, FACU, ADP and APKEPU Surveys
2.9  Fertilizer ConsumPtion Trends in Nic,ria
Before 1983, fertilizer consumption has increased tremendously
over the past years when distribution, as a measure of
consumption, increased from 185,920 tonnes in 1977 to 1,044,400
tonnes in 1985. 1/ In terms of plant nutrient consumption
aggregate use increased from 7000 tonnes during the 1970/71 to
374,428 tonnes in 1986.
fhe projected fertilizer requirements and actual consumption
during the project years are shown in table 2.18. Buffer and
pipeline requirements were built into the projections at the rate
of 10 percent. In the product mix, allowance was also made for a
shift to high analysis fertilizer such as urea, and DAP.
(18-46-0). The mission also recommended the dropping of sudh
compound fertilizers as 26s12sO, 20s20:0 and 20:Os20, because of
agronofic unftuitability and low level of import/us*. About 95% of
the projected requirement was to be obtained through imports. The
projection noted that reliable data on aggregate yearly fertilizer
consumption were difficult to obtain because of poor record
keeping by many of the agencies involved in fertilizer procurement
and distribution programme.
1/ FPDD, Lagos.



- 38 -
Table 2.18        Proiected Fertilizer Req irments
and Actual Consumtion in Nigeria
1984 - 1985
Year        Projected        Actual 2/
amount 1/       Consumed         Difference
(Tonnes)        (Tonnos)
1984           895S000         608.000          -32
1985         1,079,000         776,300          -28
1986           863,000  1/    S90,000           -32
Total        2.837,000       1,974,300            31.3
Sources     1/   Fertilizer Import Loan II Project.
2/   FPDD, Lagos
2.9.1   Farm Level Consumgtion Trend
Table 2.18 shows that there was an average shortfall of about
31% in the proposed fertiliter to be consumed in Nigeria over
the project life. The shortfall from the proposed quantity in
1984 could be attributed to drought factor, especially in
parts of Sokoto, Bauchi and Nano States, which were area" of
major consumption. The farmers cash flow problems, accentu-
ated by the currency exchange 1/ in 1984 and the more than
two-fold increase in the official fixed uniform retail price
of fertilizers affected consumption 2/.   Other studies also
confirmed that in 1984 there was a decrease in the number of
households purchasing and using fertilixers in the northern
ADPs (Bauchi, Sokoto, Kano) and the middle belt ADPs.
Additional poor distributive arrangements in that year
resulted in low consumption and stock-piles of fertilizers.
In 1985, actual consumption was 72% of the projected amount.
The upshoot of consumption in this year was due to better
distribution arrangments. In 1965. efforts were made in the
ADPs to transport and distribute fertilizers to roote areas.
The APMEPU and F86 report in 1985 also confirmed that there
was an increase in the proportion of households usir
fertilizer from about 5s% in 1984 to 73.85 in 1985. However,
the level of purchases decresed per household due to high
unit cQAt of fortilizer in 196S. Also, cost of fertiliser
rose from 12.2 kobo/kg in 1984 to 18.6 koba/kg In 1965 V/.
Other
1/ Daplyn and Okaros Preliminary report on the 1964
Suppleentary Fertilizer Survey 8F8 aVHPU 1983.
2/   Due to reduction of subsidy to 501 ln 1983-1984, the
price of fertilizer went up to E100/tonnes.
3/ Z.B. Makumbap Fertilizer uptake in selected AD. APNU 1964.



- 39 -
factors that contributed to high consumption of fertilizer in
1985 were increased use of fertilizer by Southern ADPs due to
close access to fertilizer depots in portsa improvement in
transportation system, and an increase in the number of people
engaged -n farming. Thus, despite the high price of fertilizer
from V6.60 in 1984 to W9.S0 per 50 kg bag in 1985. consumption
increased, which implied increasing level of acceptanco of the
input, probably due to its profitability. Though th. cash
problem limited the quantity that was purchased by an average
household, the stock piles of fertilizer from the 1984 imports
brought about early fertilizer distribution In 1985. This
ensured timely delivery and thus high consumption in 198S.
In 1986, there was a decrease in consumption over the proposed
quantity as shown by a shortfall of 32%. This was due to the
increase in price of fortiliaer to about RIO/bag. The quantity
of fertilizer consumed in 1986 was less than that of 1984 and
1985.
!.9-2   Fertilizer Consumption b  states
Table 2.19 gives a comparative analysis of fertilizer allocation
and actual consumption by states.
Table 2.19 Comparative Analysis of Fertilizer Allocation and
Actual Consumption by States9. 1984- 1986
1984                      1985                    1986
tates   Proposed  Actual   S   Proposed  Actual    I    Proposed  Actual  I
Consump-  Consum Diff  Consump-  Conaump- Dlff. consump-  con-  Diff.
tion      ption        tion       tion           tion       aUMp-
tion
'o00      '000          '000       '000           '000      '000
tonnes    tonnes       tonne       tonnes          townes   tonnes
Abuja     12.0      5.34  44.S    14.4        s.8    40      7.9      1.3   16.4
Anambra   38.0     19.83  S2.2    45.6       21.8    47.1  24.6      16.5   67.0
Sauchi    91.0     62.11  68.3   109.0       36.2    33.2  86.5      47.9  S5.3
sendel    23.0      7.15  31.1    27.6        14.81   53.8   9.6     14.0  145.8
Benue     54.0     24.0   44.4    66.0       46.7    70.1  28.6      49.0  131.3
torno     54.S     44.2   84.1    64.2       23.8    37.0  53.7      20.2   37.6
'/River   14.0      4.0   28.6    16.08      10.9    64.8   S.4       9.1  168.S
Gongola   44.0     31.71  72.1   540         23.1    42.7  40.2      34.6   86.0
Emo       19.0     17.34  91.3    22.8       16.6    72.8  30.3      33.8  111.5
Eaduna   125.0    113.96  91.2   149.3      158.4   106.1 170.7      93.6   S4.8
Kano     107.0     83.83  78.4   126.3      152.5   120.7 125.5      20.6   16.4
cwora     24.5     17.52  71.5    29.1       17.5    60.1  20.2      19.1   94.5
Lagos      4.5      0.79  16.7      5.4       1.38   25.5   0.9       1.4  155.5
Niger     27.5     24.8   90.2    33.6       28.S    84.8  37.6      32.6   86.7
ogun      16.5      2.54  15.4    19.6        10.2    51.5   3.4      7.4  217.6
Ondo      26.5       5.63  58.9    31.5       10.8    34.2   7.9       0.12   1.5
OYo       33.5     14.03  14.8   .40.2        13.9    34.5  15.6     20.8  133.3
Plateau   75.0     S5.77  74.3    92.7       86.6    93.4  86.3      7.6   88.7
tiver      8.5      1.65  19.4    10,2        3.6    35.2   2.3       4.2  182.6
*1l



- 40 -
Table 2.19 Cont'd.
Sokoto    97.2     74.01  76.1   118.5       93.15   78.6 105.6      58.6   55.4
Total    895.0    610.23  68.2  1107.9       776.34   72.1 863.21   574.6   66.5
Soure*s FPMD.
Thm fertilizer project envisaged greater use of fertilizer in the
Northern States due to highor crop hectarage (800) in the North and
greater diffusion of fertilizer use due to existing AP6. The project
proposed that 801 of the fertilix*rs would be used in the North in
1984 out of the estimated 895,000 tonns, and 20% in the south. out
in actual fact, about 8$% of the 610,000 tonnes were used in the North
and only 121 wys consumed in the South. This conformed with the
project proposal that there was greater scope for expanded fertilizer
use in the North than in the south.
The existence of State wide ADPs in Raduna, Sokoto, Kano and Bauchi,
ADAP in Gongola and Dorno, and enclave projects in other northern
states, contributed significantly to the consumption of fertilizer in
the North* In most southern states such as Lagos. Rivers, Ondo, Ogun
and Cross River States, actual consumption fell far below
expectations. The obvious reaon for this high shortfall was
non-existence of effective ADIts in the States in 1984. In tao State
where ADAP was in place by 1984, consumption was about 90% of the
projected quantity.
2.9.3  Pertilizer Consu ation br User Agencies
Table 2.20 shows the actual consumption pattern of fertilizer by
different agencies during the project life 1984 - 1986.
Table 2.20s Actual Fertilir             Ion by Agncies. 1984-196
User                 1984              1985            1986
Ag*ncy          Actual    t       Actual      I    Actual   I
ADst/ADA        418.0      68.3    485      62.8    304.9   62.9
MOAs            120.9      19.8    146.2   19.3      91.2   19.8
R8DAs            60.0       9.8    133.1   17.2      42.5    8.8
Plantations       9.1       1.5      2.8    0.4
Research          3.8       0.6       2.8    0.4      -
others I/          -         -        -       -       5.9    9.5
TOTA            611.8      100%    771.9   100      484.5  100
Sources 
The table sbow  that the proportion of fertilizer uso  in the
Avit ineaeased fom about 418 tons  s In 1984 to 485.0 to _   l
1985.   he increae was due to exp eted strem of phased AM  is
I/ Others include Cooperatives,  "esarch IstitUtifl  & *tt rite
Companies.



- 41 -
the eight States of the Federation between 198S and 1986 and the
spread of ADP programme concept to all the States.  The table
also shows that ADP/ADAs consumed_more fertilizers than any
other agency. More than 60% of fertilizer imports between 1984
to 1986 were consumed by the ADV'sS this was followed by MQO
which consumed an average of 17.8%. and the RBDA with an average
of 8.6%. Consumption of fertilizers by private organizations
started towards the end of the project life (1986).
The trend shows that while there was an increase in fertilizer
use in the ADPs, the consumption of fertilizer in some of the
institutions and agencies tended to fall during the project
years. Research Institutes and plantations showed a decreasing
trend in fertilizer consumption, while consumption fluctuated
from year to year in the RBDAs. The increase in the consumption
of fertilizer by ADPs could be attributed to the establishment
of more FSCs, intensive extension services and better organised
haulage, transportation and marketing within the ADP system. It
was. however, anticipated that fertilizer consumption by private
organizations would increase over the years in view of the
increasing involvement of large companies in farming.



- 42 -
CMaPUM III
FERTILIZER POLICY I88E
Ihe development of effective policies for promoting increased
fertilizer use was one of the cardinal objectives of the first
fertilizer loan. The need to develop strategies and policies for
promoting increased fertilizer use cannot be over-emphasised.
Even when the beat agronomic and management practices have been
developed, policy instruments have to be put in place to remove
other constraints in order to promote widespread adoption of
recommended fertilizer practices. Some of the pre-loan fertilizer
relat,ed policies that have been applied by government include:
i.   Fertilizer price subsidy
ii. Fertilizer procurement and distribution policy
iii. Extension education policy
iv. Agricultural research policy
v.   Credit policy
vi. Output price support policy
All the above policies have been used, in varying degrees, to
promote increased fertilizer use and general agricultural deve-
lopment.  However, for a number of reasons, the effectiveness of
these policies was very much below expectation. During the loan
period, therefore, many of the policies affecting the fertilizer
subsector were to be critically reviewed and modified to make them
more effective instruments for promoting increased fertilizer use.
The policy issues most relevant to the loan project includes
(i) Fertilizer pricing and subsidy policy which emphasized a
phased withdrawal of fertilizer subsidies.over 5 years.
1984 - 1988.
(ii) Fertilizer distribution and marketing policy which focused
on three major issues:
a) the commercialisation and private sector participation
in fertilizer marketing and distribution,
b)   the construction of fertilizer transportation and
storage optimization model,
c)   a credit study designed to evolve a credit programe
to promote fertilizer purchases.
(iii) The establishment of the National Fertilizer Coordinating
Committee (NFCC) to guide and coordinate fertilizer sector
programmes and policies.
3.1 Fertilizer Pricing and Subsidy Policy
Fertilizer pricing and subsidy policy had been one of the major
instruments-of agricultural development in Nigeria.



- 43 -
The basic approach to fertilizer pricing during the loan period
was to maintain a low price so as-to increase the value cost
ratio which, in turn# provided the- economic incentive needed to
induce expanded use of fertilizers. During the pro-loan period,
a uniform countrywide retail selling price of fertilizers was
maintained and government subsidy amounted to 85 percent of
total cost while farmers paid 15 percent.
At the projected loan period consumption levels, it was
envisaged that fertilizer subsidy would, in fact, become a major
impediment not only to the fertilizer programme, but also to
national agricultural development. Thus, a phased withdrawal of
fertilizer subsidy was to be implemented over a five year
period. The rationale behind this proposition could be listed
as follows$
First, the cost of fertilizer subsidy was becoming too
burdensome in relation to governments' dwindling financial
resources. Second, low prices of fertilizers coupled with
limited supplies would encourage fertilizer *black* marketing at
substantially higher prices while very low prices would also
encourage inefficient use and possible smuggling across national
borders. Third, the policy makers, and the World Bank in
particular, believed that prolonged application of fertilizer
subsidy might induce insatiable demand for subsidy.
It was against the above background that the World Bank, tagged
the subsidy reduction scenario in Table 3.1 to the disbursement
of the first fertilizer loan taken in 1983.
Table 3.1: Fertilizer Subsidy Scenario, Nigeria, 1984 - 1988
Year     Rate of    Average                           Subsidy
Subsidy    Farm Gate         QuantitX       Budget
(%)        Nice           (bQQQ tons)   (}nIIon)
1984       50          5.82               790           92.0
1985       40           8.10            1,147          123.9
1986       35         10.20               863           94.8
1987       30          11.94              929           94.9
1988       25         15.38             1,000          102.S
Sources Nigerian Fertilizer Import Loan Report. 1983.
As a protective measure, however, each announcement of
fertilizer price increase was to be preceded by a review of the
effect of earlier price increases on demand as reported by the
States' and APEP 'S modified agronomic survey. Reduction in
subsidy was also to be accompanied by the implementation of
other cost reduction measures such as fertilizer purchases
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB), greater use of
high analysis fertilizers, more efficient intermodal transportaa
tion mix, improvement in inventory management etc. Also, the
withdrawal of subsidy was to be augmented by improvements in



- 44-
complementary policy measures such as easy credit, crop price
support, distribution and marketing efficiency, storage of
products, fertilizer research and extension, all of which were
to be designed to reduce the negative impact of reduction in
subsidy.
mhe fertilizer price and subsidy rates during the loan period
were as shown in Table 3.2, 3.3, and 3.4.
Table 3.2: Parugate Cost and Subsidy Rates per ton of
Fertilizer Types, 1984
-     _______ ________ _______ ________ ________ _______ ________ _______
PRODUCT TYPES
NPK     DAP     UREA   SSP   CAN    SSP
Procurement CIF
Price US $            175     281       165     106     132       -
Procurement  1        131      211      124      80       99     200
Demurrage    U          0.10    0.10      0.10    0.10    0.10   -
Port Clearing 1        20       20       20      20       20      -
Warehousing N           1        1        1       1        1      -
Transportation to
State N                63       63       63      63      63       40
Inter State Distribu-
tion Margin  N         35       35       35      35      35       35
Sub Total             250.1   611.1    408.1   305.1   350.1   275
Less:
Despatch 3                .81     .81      .81     .81      .81   -
TOTAL FARMGATE COST U 249.29  610.29   407.29  304.29  349.29  275
Recommended Farmers
Price N               120      120      120     100     100      100
Subsidy N             129.29  490.29   287.29  204.29  249.29  175
Percentage Subsidy     52       80       71      67       71      64
Subsidy cost in 1984 - Average Total Subsidy (N) x Total Tonnage (MT)
- 255.91  x  790,000      U202,167,583.3
Average % subsidy    - 67.5
Note:  Exchange Rate - 1984, S - 10.75.
Source: Reports of PMAO Consultants to FPDD.
The price of high analysis fertilizer was increased from N120 per ton
in 1984 to N190 per ton in 1985, and to 1200 per ton in 1986.  This
was equivalent to an average subsidy reduction from 67.5 in 1984 to
37.5 percent in 198S and 29.2% in 1986.



- 45 -
Table 3.3 Fanmaate Cost and Subsidy Rates Per Ton of Fertilizer
TVVes. 1985
PRODUCT TYPES
NPX      DAP        UREA       SSP     CAm       SSP
15-15-15                                      Local1
Procurement CIF
Price US $          206       258       223        109     140      -
Procurement  3      165       206       178         87     712     200
Demurrage   U         0.85      0.85      0.85      0.85     0.85   -
Ports Clearing U     15        15        1S         15      15      -
Warehousing U         4         4         4          4       4      -
Transport to
States  U            60        60        60         60      60      40
Intra State Distri-
bution  U            35        35        35         35      35      35
Sub Total           279.85   320.85    292.85    201.85  226.85  275
Lesss
Despatch  n           0.s5    .0.58       0.58       0.58    0.58   -
TOTAL FARMGATE
COST       N         279.85   320.27    297.27    201.8S  226.85  275
Recommended Farmers
Price  U            190       190       190        140     140     140
Subsidy               89.27   130.27    102.27      61.27   86.27  135
Percentage Subsidy   32        41        35         30      38       49
Subsidy cost in 1985 - Average Total Subsidy (U) x Total Tonnage (MT)
- 100.73 x 1.174,002 - 118.251,3S51.5
Average I subsidy    - 37.5
tOTEs Exchange Rate - 1985,  - N0.8
Sources Reports of PMAO Consultants to FPPD.
Table 3.4 Farmaate Cost and Subsidy Rate. Per Ton of Fertilizer
TyDes. 1986
PRODUCT TYPES
NPR       DAP      UREA       S1      CAN       $SP
15-15-15
Procurement CII
Price US $          157        227      127       99       122     -
Procurement i       157        227      127       99       122    125
Demurrage   U        -          -        -        -                 -
Ports Clearing 3      1S        15        15      15        1S     -
Warehousing i          3         3         3       3         3      -
Transport to States  60         60        60      60        60      30



_ 46 -
Table 3.4 Cont'd.
Interstate Distri-
bution  3            35         35       35      35        35     35
Sub Total           270       340       240     212       235    315
Least
Despatch N            1.49       1.49     1.49    1.49      1.49   1.49
WTAL FARP GATE
COST  N             268.50    338.50   238.50  210.50    233.50 313.51
Recommended Farmers      >
Price  N            200       200       200     170       170    170
Subsidy  3           68.50    138.50    38.50   0.50       63.50 143.51
Percentage Subsidy   26        41        16      19        27    46
Subsidy Cost in 1986 - Average Total Subsidy (N) x Total Tonnage (mT)
- 82.17 x 597,000
a N49,055,490
Average % subsidy    - 29.2
Notes Exchange Rate - 1986. $ a N
Sources Reports of PKAO Consultants to FPD
In 1984, the cost outlay on subsidy was U202,167,538 while in 198S and
1986, the cost outlay was substantially reduced to S118,251*35l and
049OSS490# respectively. Thus, the implementation of subsidy
withdrawal significantly reduced the cost outlay on subsidy. Average
subsidy decreased fro* 67.5S ln 1984 to 37.5 in 1985 and to 29.2w in
1986. Percentage subsidy also varied from product to product, but
generally SIP. DMP and Urea attracted higher subsidy rates.
There was no doubt that th economic situatLon and the quantity of
fertilizers projected for consumption during the loan period compelled
government to favour a phase withdrawal of fortilizer subsidy.
Uowever,ein the absence of empirical nalysis which quantified the
effect of phased reduction oz subsidy on the level of fertilizer
consumption, the lmplementatioru of fertilizer subsLdy during the loan
perLod ws not guided by any scientific assesment of the Implications
of different subsidy scenarios.
The point ot. ontroversy wbich nee  to be scientifically Investigated#
are, firstly, the magnitudes and tim  path of susidy withdrawal that
will not drastically reduce fertilizer cosumption to the detriment of
agricultural production an d* secondly, the mechanlm for administering
fertilizer subsidy for maximum effectiveness.
When the price of fertilizer wa  increased more than proportionat  to
the increases in the price and yield of crops, the value-cost ratio
was depressed and farmrs' rate of fertilixer use adoption wa



- 47 -
considerably dampened. This was due to the fact that the improvements
in the other output promoting factors were not significant enough to
dampen the negative effects of subsidy withdrawal.
The general comments on fertilizer pricing policy at the NCA meeting
in November 1986 reflected a declining trend in fertilizer consumption
due to price increases. The fear was expressed in the National
Council of Agriculture (NCA) meeting that the current rate (1986
price) of fertilizer subsidy withdrawal, which was not accompanied by
significant improvements in other output increasing factors, would
have adverse consequences on the level of fertilizer consumption. The
APMEPU's modified agronomic survey reports were used to support the
declining trend in fertilizer consumption due to price increases.
The APMEPU survey under reference revealed that the increase in
fertilizer price led to a reduction in the conaumption of fertilizers
in the ADPs. Consumption decreased from 73 percent in 1985 to 68% in
1986 as shown in Table 3.5.
Table 3.5            Pertilizer Uptake in ADPs
PROJECT              1984        1985         1986
% of        % of          % of
a/Hold     H/Hold       H/Hold
EKITI-AKOKO           41.1        61.0          S0.0
OYO NORTH             33.2         38.9         74.0
IMO                   56.5        95.8          74.0
DIDA                  89.3         98.9         72.0
rLORIN                66.8        64.6          68.0
W IA                  65.4         79.4         78.0
GONGOLA               53.2         68.1         92.0
SOKOTO CENTRAL        42.7         55.0         51.0
SOKOTO EAST           69.8        93.5 73.0
SOX050 NOR2M          31.9         52.9         44.0
SOKOTO WEST           75.3        73.0          72.0
MEAN                  S6.8         73.0         68.0
CV                    32.3         28.3         20.8
WRXGUTED MEAN         56.8         73.0         68.0
Sources Supplementary Fertilizer Survey Data Sets, APMEPU, Raduna,
1984 - 1986.
it was also argued that some agriculturally developed and relatively
food self-sufficient countries like India, Indonesia# Malaysia*
Thailand, the lhillipines, etc. still maintained an average of 30
percent level of subsidy. There was, therefore, no justification for
the accelerated withdrawal of fertilizer subsidy in a food-deficit
country like Nigeria. In sympathy with these arguMents, gov rnment
had no alternative than to maintain the 1987 prices of fertilizers at
1986 price levels.



- 48 -
3.2  Fertilizer Distribution and Marketing Policy
3.2.1 Pre-loan Fertilizer Distribution and Marketing
Prior to the fertilizer loan, public fertilizer distribution and
marketing system, controlled, regulated and supervised by government,
predominated in Nigeria. The justification for government
intervention were two fold, namely:
(1) to ensure availability of fertilizer on time, and at fair
prices throughout the country;
(2) to promote increased consumption through educational and
promotional activities.
The distribution and marketing of fertilizer was centralized and
executed through the Fertilizer Procurement and Distribution
Division (FPDD). Primary distribution at the retail level was
vested in the state ministries of agriculture, the World Bank
assisted Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs), goveraent
controlled input distribution and marketing companies *tc. most
of which established commercial services departments and
appointed retailers to carry out some degree of comercial
fertilizer marketing. Fertilizer marketing was also carried out
at wholesale and retail levels through fareer cooperatives.
The success of government arrangements for fertilizer
distribution and marketing prior to the loan period had been
lets than modest. Experience revealed that as the level of
consumption increased, distribution and marketing activities
became too complex and the capacity of institutional
arrangements to cope with the requirements of efficient
distribution became inadequate at best. Leakages, port wastages
and transit losses in the distribution system asnumed
unmanageable proportion. Distribution operations became cost
ineffective and the burden of expenditure on distribution
resulted in inadequate coverage and 'black market developmet
while the number, location and promotional activities at th
PDPs became insufficient to ensure grassroot penetration.
Arising from all the above shortcomings, the Fertilizer Loam
Mission concluded thats
i.   the approach to fertilizer distrLbution and marketing
needed to be broadened and revitalized to operate in a
competitive environmentp
ii. commercialization of and private sector participation In
fertiller marketing was crucial to the maxuimition of
efficiency and cost effectivenessl
iii. fortilizer distribution operations should be based on
transportation, storage and inventory management



- 49 -
optimization modell
iv. a viable credit programme was needed to eliminate financial
constraints to the purchase of fertilizers by farmers.
2.2  Obiectives of Fertilizer Distribution and Marketing Policy
Accordingly, the major objectives of fertilizer distribution and
marketing policy during the loan period were:
i.   to maximize distribution efficiency and reduce cost;
ii. to make fertilizer available to farmers in the right kind,
place, quantity, cost and time;
iii. to enhance farmers financial capability to purchase
fertilizers.
2.3  Policy Implementation During the Loan Period
In order to provide the operational framework for implementing
distribution and marketing policy during the loan period, four
studies were commissioned as follows:
The first two studies were both on the commercialization and
private sector participation in fertilizer marketing. These.
studies were carried out by International Fertilizer Development
Centre (IFDC), and Peat Marwick Ani Ogunde Consultants. In
furtherance of the commercialization concept the Fertilizer and
Agricultural Inputs Marketing Company (FAIMCO) was to be formed
and an inter-ministerial committee was set up to work on the
establishment of the company. However, action to constitute the
company into functional entity had to be suspended consequent
upon the decision of the National Council of Agriculture (NM)
in 1986 that procurement and distribution of fertilizers should
continue to be the responsibility of the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture,. Water Resources and Rural Development through the
FPDD.
At the NCA meeting, there were some reservations about the
efficiency of such a profit motivated company as FAIMCO. The
inefficiencies of parastatals like National Electric Power
Authority (NEPA) and National Supply Company (NSC) were cited to
buttress the argument against FAIMCO. It was also stressed that
commercialization and profit motive were generally incompatible
with the administration of subsidy.
It was therefore concluded that a completely autonomous and
profit motivated marketing company would tend to serve
profitable markets only, and would not, therefore,, make
fertilizer readily available to all categories of farmers.  This
was perhaps the reason for the complete rejection of a
oompletel1y autonomous and profit maximisation oriented
fertilizer marketing company.



- 50 -
It is relevant to note that the above assertions are not
necessarily correct in practice. India moved away from
government-run fertilizer marketing system in the mid-sixties to
develop 130,000 private retail outlets by 1985. Yet, fertilizer
subsidy was still as high as 30 percent. Bangladesh also
successfully privatised fertilizer wholesaling and retailing
while maintaining over 35 percent subsidy level. In Indonesia*
the private sector handles 70 percent of fertilizer sales while
the cooperatives handled 30 percent. Yet, fertilizer subsidies
range between 20 to 35 percent. In Malaysia, private sector
handles 52 percent of fertilizer sales, public sector 48
percent, and yet variabie subsidy levels are being maintained.
Against the foregoing experiences, considerable degree of
commercialization could be accommodated in fertilizer distribu-
tion and marketing while still applying subsidy. However, in
our search for a more efficient and viable fertilizer marketing
system for Nigeria, the aim of commercialising fertilizer
marketing should not be the maximization of profit. Rather, the
objective should be to improve efficiency, reduce the staggering
wastages and costs and make fertilizer readily available to
farmers.  The system should, however, be capable of generating
reasonable profit margin, or at worst cover its costs, as
otherwise the system can be maintained only at the mercy of
government subvention.
It was in this context that a two stage commercialization
approach became an attractive proposition during the loan
period. The first stage was the privatisation of dealer or
retailer operations as currently being done at the various ADPs
and the input marketing companies in Bida, Kano, Bauchi, lmo
etc. Evidences abound to show that grassroot penetration of
fertilizer distribution was rapidly being promoted by the
appointment of retailers and the establishment of statewide ADPs
in almost all the states of the federation. The next stage
should be the privatization of a partially autonoous
organization to manage the marketing system while government
maintains some degree of control on issues relating to profit
margin, pricing, distribution policies etc.
The third study was to develop fertilizer transportation,
storage and inventory management optimization model to minimize
total system cost. This was in recognition of the fact that
storage and transportation costs represented a significant
component of the farmgate cost of fertilizer. A fertilizer
transport and storage optimization model was developed by IPXc
for making optimal allocation of routes and modes of transport
for evacuating fertilizers from each port or plant, through the
warehouses, to the various PDPs and retail outlets. The model
was to assist in determining optimum inventory control as well
as appropriate shipping schedules, the berthing ports for
vessels, and the distribution of fertilizer from each port or
plant, through all internal supply depots or warehouses, to the
final destinations.



- 51 -
It was, however, not possible to use the transportation model as
the basis for fertilizer distribution during the loan period
because of the Federal Government's directive to the effect that
States and Agencies were to lift their consignments of
fertilizer from ports or warehouses.
The first reaction to this directive was to postulate that the
directive would eventually make fertilizer operations less
efficient and cost ineffective for the following reasons. First,
the optimum routes and modes would not necessarily be the most
attractive to the States. Second, lack of integration of ship
arrivals with fertilizer evacuation plans by the States/Agencies
would necessitate the building or renting of intermediate
warehousing facilities at very high costs. Third, lack of
monitoring of delivery to the final destinations would lead to
uncontrollable wastages and transit losses and non-deliveries.
Fourth, unplanned shipments and berthing would lead to
congestion in certain ports while other ports might remain idle.
The experience of fertilizer distribution operations after this
directive revealed that a few of these postulates were found to
be true in practice. For example, a significant proportion of
the fertilizers delivered in 1986 was discharged at the Lagos
and Tin Can ports, leaving only a small percentage to be
discharged at Port-Harcourt, Calabar and Warri Ports. Also,
road transportation was the only mode of shipment to the States
and Agencies while the much cheaper rail and water modes were
used sparingly.
On the positive side, considerable savings in intra-state
transportation were reported by some agencies who then had
greater flexibility in planning and managing deliveries directly
to their PDPs and agro-service centres. Many agencies were able
to exercise full control over their transporters, thus
eliminating or reducing losses and non-deliveries of fertilizers
to the minimum. The directive also promoted the delivery of
the right types of fertilizers to the appropriate areas of need.
The fourth study on credit was carried out by the firm Coopers
and Lybrand but the recommendations were not implemented during
the loan period.
3.3  National Fertilizer Coordinating Committee (NFCC)
One of the steps taken by the Federal Government to improve
national fertilizer programme was the setting up of the NFCC in
1983. Although approval for the establishment of the committee
was given in 1983, notification of members did not take place
until August 1984, and the inauguration did not take place until
30th of July 1985S The committee was chaired by the Director of
FPDD and membership includes
(a) One representative each of Federal Ministries of Commerce
and Industry, Education,. Science and Technology.



- 52 -
(b) One representative each of Federal Superphosphate Company
and NAFCON
tc) Directors of FDA, FDALR, NUPOR, IAR AND IAR & T
(d) One distinguished individual in the area of fertilizer use.
(e) Two representatives of the ADPs in the country.
The terms of reference of NFCC are as follows:
1.  Oversee all fertilizer related activities in the country
including production, procurement, marketing, distribution,
promotion and pricing and advise executing agencies on
areas of improvement.
2.  Advise all manufacturers on what fertilizer should be
produced for domestic market by crops and ecological
factors, and effect a national policy on quality control
for fertilizer types.
3.  Coordinate forecasts of annual fertilizer demand and
determine each year, the size of local market, against the
types and quantities that can be supplied by each
manufacturer.
4.   Coordinate a retail pricing policy for fertilizer.
S.   implement government policy on fertilizer subsidy.
6.  Coordinate nationally fertilizer extension services.
7.   Liaise with relevant state government bodies on all
fertilizer related issues.
S.   Facilitate the establishment of a national data bank for
fertilizer.
The NPCC had treated several issues and taken decisions which
have both short and long-term implications for the fertilizer
sector. Some of these issues include:
i)   Type and quantities of fertilizers for 1986 and 1987
crop year.
ii)  Draft fertilizer decree to regulate and control
fertilizer production and usage in the country.
iii) Set up National Fertilizer Technical Commiitte (NFMC)
which is to assist the NFCC in the attainment of its
objectives.



- 53 -
iv) National Seminar on Fertilizer held on 25 - 27 August
1987 with specific focus on fertilizer policy issues,
problems and use efficiency.
v)   Establishment of Fertilizer Demonstration and
Information Centre which has now put in place a
structure that allows:
a)   a continuous revaluation of fertilizer recommenda-
tions for different crops in different
agro-ecological zones,
b)   the development of benchmark and period surveys to
obtain information on technical, institutional and
socio-economic constraints to fertilizer use
adoption,
c)   a literature review of all available information on
crop fertilizer use in the five agro-ecological
zones of the country.
PPDD, through APMEPU, has also initiated the development of a
database which will allow correct assessment on a regular
basis of fertilizer demand, consumption and carryover stock.
Studies are also being initiated to determine the actual
intra-state distribution costs with a view to evolving a more
cost-effective intra-state distribution strategies. As a
prelude to these studies FPDD is planning a workshop on
fertilizer distribution and handling in the country,
involving all the project and commercial managers of ADP's,
marketing companies, private and cooperative farming
organisations.



-54-
FINANCI
4.1 Funding of Fertilizer Proaramme
The project was to provide funding options which would insulate
the fertilizer import programme from foreign exchange and
government cash flow constraints. To this end, government was
expected 'to release promptly as needed all the foreign exchange
and Naira components and such other resources as may be required
for importation, distribution and marketing of fertilizers.*
The project also proposed to strengthen and restructure the
accounts and the accounting system of PPDD in order to
effectively introduce cost consciousness in all the operational
activities.
4.2 Accounting System
PPDD operated a vote book as the principal record, accounting
for the transactions only when they were approved for payment.
WOhile the vote book was maintained at FPDD office, the actual
payment through the issue of cheques was carried out at the
Central Pay Office for FMAWHD situated at Obalende, about two
kilometers away. Consequently, while the payments might have
been approved by FPDD the suppliers might still not be paid for
several months later. Such delays were normally caused through
various types of queries at the Central Pay Office and not
through the lack of funds.
Since only one vote book was kept, the various types of payments
were not readily analysed according to type. Consequently
regular management accounts showing expenditure by type could
not be prepared.
Similarly, claims of suppliers were recorded only when approved
for payments. Suppliers accounts were not maintained to show the
o-utstanding liability at any particular time. Adhoc exercises
had to be resorted to in order to identify the extent of
commitments.
In order to minimise the adverse effect which the time consuming
payment process would have on the operations, a project account
was created at FPDD which allowed FPDD management to disburse
funds for the immediate operational expenses without passing
such payment through the FMA Central Pay Office.
However, major expenditure on transportation, ports clearance
and fertilizer procurement were however not passed through this
project account but still continued to be handled by the Central
Pay Office. The project fund which was operated on an imprest
amount of 32.0 million provided the much needed flexibility to
FPDD and contributed to some of the successes achieved in



- 55 -
avoiding demurrage. Government accounting regulations were
generally followed in the operation of the project account. A
vote book was also used and there ware no further analysis to
enable the nature of the expenditure to be readily determined.
In the areas of revenue and recoveties, registers were
maintained to record the amounts received from the Agencies and
lodged into separate Recovery Account at the Central Bank.
Minimal records and ledgers were kept. These showed the amount
received from each Agency at any time, the amounts of invoices
sent to the Agencies as wel3 as the outstanding balances.
Adhoc registers were maintained to record transactions with the
World Bank and correspondent banks in respect of fertilizer
procurement. Regular progress reports could not be easily
established from these records and it required adhoc exercises
before status report could be prepared.
In all, the records were rudimentary and not to the level
expected of an organisation handling over 3300 million to N500
million of essential imports.
Further improvements in the accounting systems were delayed in
the expectation that the whole operations were to be transferred
to a new commercial entity. It was felt unnecessary to embark
on time consuming and costly restructuring of the system with
its attendant requirement for additional highly qualified
personnel if such operations were soon to be aborted.
4.3 Cost of Fertilizer Operations
The World Bank loan was for a project requiring the procurement
and distribution of 2,047,000 tonnes of fertilizers comprising
862.000 tonnes in 1984 and 1,212,000 tonnes in 1985.  Total
project costs excluding studies and fees were estimated at
3554.2 million comprising 3202.2 million for 1984 and N334.0
million for 1985. Of these amounts, the foreign currency
components were $158.5 million for 1984 and $257.6 million for
1985. Actually, the programme was extended to include 1986 as a
result of savings in anticipated expenditure in 1984 and 1985.
790,000 tonnes of fertilizers were procured in 1984, 1,174,000
tonnes in 1985 and 597,000 tonnes in 1986 making a total of
2,561,000 tonnes during the project years.
Table 4.1 shows details of the planned and actual quantities and
expenditure on fertilizer operations for 1984 and 1985.
Farmgate cost in 1984 was V23S.9/tonne as against an expected
"244.9/tonne. The lower cost per tonne was due to a sharp
reduction in the import prices of fertilizers as well as savings
made in other components of cost of operation. These were more
than compensated for by the increase arising from the



- 56 -
Table 4.1 Actual and Planned Costs of Fertilizer Prolect:
Nigeria, 19-4 and 1985
1984                           )985
Product            Actual     Planned          Actual          Planned
- - -(tonnes)-- -        ---- (tonnes)-
Imports               755,000    835,000        1174,000        1,212,000
Local                  35,000      60,000         27,585           60,000
790,000    895,000       1201,585        1,272,000
Nutrient              276,792    321,200         461,788          389,540
Foreign Currency    --(million US$) -               - (million US S) -
Imports               118.04      158.5            216.8          257.6
Total Costs          -(rillion M)-                  - (million N ) -
Imports                88.8a      105.6            173.5          171.7
Local                   7.0        12.9              5.5           14.6
Total procurement      9S.8       118.5            179.0          186.3
Clearing               16.3        11.7             15.2           19.1
Transportation         46.6        57.7             67.0           92.7
Cost to state depots 158.7        187.9            261.2          299.1
Intrastate costs       27.7        31.2             42.0           35.9
Costs to farm gate   186.4        219.1            303.2          334.0
per nutrient tonne   673.4        682.1            656.6          857.4
per product tonne    673.4        682.1            2S2.5          262.6
Exchange rate
(N to US $1.00)         0.75        0.67            0.80           0.67
NOTE: The accounts for 1986 have not yet been audited.
deterioration of the naira exchange rate. The reverse was the case in
1985 when unit prices increased against a continually deteriorating
naira exchange rate.
4.4  Cost of Fertilizer Imports
Table 4.2 shows the procurement costs of fertilizers during the loan
period. In 1984 the sum of US $103.516m was spent on importation*
while US $218.003m and US $80.744m were spent on fertilizer
importation in 1985 and 1986, respectively. Thus, a total of US
$402.263m was spent to procure fertilizer during the project years. A
total of N61.812m was spent by FGN on the purchase of fertilizer from
local sources.



- 57 -
As a result of cost effectiveness during project implementation,
substantial savings were made in the first two years. This led to the
extension of the loan to 1986. At the end of the project US $230.263m
was expended as against the planned expenditure of US S248.3m.
Table 4.2: Pertilizer Procurement Costs 1984.- 1986
0000)
1984       1985         1986         Total
A. S.           4284       4028         4850         13162
CAM           19272       27790         8784         55846
UREA            5250      40240        11430         56920
SSP            7420        5723         6930         20073
aSP              -        6.560          -            6560
MOP              -          -       _     _
15-15-15      49700       99769        29830        179299
12-12-17       3540       12480         3030         19050
DAP           14050       21413        15890         51353
103516     218003        80744        402263
SSP Local     17000       54812                      61812
4.5 Foreign Exchange and Naira Components
There were no foreign currency constraints in the project years.
While the Wbrld Bank loan provided for 75% of the funds in 1984, and
50% in 1985 and 1986, FGN provided promptly, and in not more than two
instalments each year, its own share of the foreign currency for
deposit in a nominated foreign bank pending utilisation.
local funds released in 1984 amounting to 1107.8 million appeared
adequate because by the en-l of the year N79.9 million had been
expended, N10.2million committed, and 117.7 million lapsed.  The
funds, however, came late. Two allocations in the second half of 1984
came after the effective use period and resulted in delayed payments
to transporters and clearing agents.
Of the anticipated recoveries of N82 million, 25% was received and
deposited at the Central Bank by FPDD.
4.6  Port Discharge
Discharging costs for fertilizers, which included NPA statutory dues
and port clearance costs during the project years was 118.17 per
metric tonne, as against the estimated cost of 122.00 per tonne prior
to the project year.



-58-
4.7  Primary Transportation Costs
Inland transportation costs depend on modal mix, port of origin,
ultimate destination and the transporters tarriff rates. Although the
loan expected a rates reversal as a result of the concentric band
approach to rates from the ports, it never worked as rates were fixed
nationally by the National Transport Coordinating Committee. The
transport rate averaged N65.00 per tonne throughout the project years.
This rate was exclusive of tertiary transportation cost of N35.00 per
tonne which was borne by the FGN.
In 1984 and 198S, conscious efforts were made to increase the
utilisation of water and rail transport of fertilizers. In 1985, a
substantial advance of VSmillion was paid to NRC to reduce any funding
constraints on the part of the NRC in moving the fertilizers.
Furthermore whole ship loads were also allocated to NRC to move.
Despite these encouragements NRC was unable to significantly increase
the tonnage moved by road.
NRC often claim shortage of wagons and locomotives as constraints on
its ability to move more fertilizers. On the other hand omoe
fertilizer tv:ansportes were able to secure wagons from NRC to move
fertilizers directly. These transporters collected such fertilizers
by trucks at the ports and offloaded them to NRC wagons at the port
based stations. Such transporters claimed the higher road transport
rate from FPDD while paying NRC for the lower rail rate.
As long as PPDD continues its policy of reimbursing the Agencies for
the full transportation costs, there will be little incentive on the
part of the Agencies to adopt cost reduction measures.
Movement by water was not considered a major cost saver by this
report. Its role diminished except to the extent that it alleviated
shortage of trucks or berthing space.
In 1985, mid stream discharging was embarked upon for four ships
carrying 42,500 tonnas in Lagos to alleviate the shortage of berthing
space. All such cargoes were subsequently moved to destination by
trucks from She Lagos and warehouses jetty to which they were carried
by the barges. Some barges were also used to supplement truck
discharges at hand quays in Lagoa and Port-Harcourt ports.
However, in 1986, there were hardly any use of barges in any forz
since their rates were not lower than equivalent road rates.
4.8 Demurrage and Degatch
Demurrage payments were at the rate of $2,500 to $3,000 per day while
despatch earnings were at the rate of $1250 to $1500 per day. In
1984, despatch earnings of $851,000 exceeded demurrage payments of
$104,000 by $75S,000 while in 1985 demurrage payments of $1,241,000
exceeded despatch of $852,000 by $389,000.



- 59 -
In 1986, no single vessel entered demurrage and all vessels earned
despatch of $887,000. The achievement in 1986 was due mainly to
improved documentation processing Arrangement operated by PPDD as well
as the absence of significant competition from other imported cargo
for available trucks.
A significant proportion of the transit loss in 1986 relate to
fertilizers delivered by the sole clearing agent - Government Coastal
Agency to Lagos warehouses. A claim for the amount has since been
lodged with the clearing agent and the amount is expected to be off-
set against amounts due to the clearing agent. Table 4.3 shows the
transit and storage losses for each year.
Table 4.3 Warehouse, Tzansit & Storage Losses
1984     1985      1986
Total sent to warehouse             5000    46000
Not delivered at warehouses           -        500
Received at warehouses              5000    45SO0      137499
Storage loss                        5000       300        876
Despatched to Agencies
from warehouses                     4500               100249
Stores were rented at the seaport towns to act not only as buffer
storage points but as holding points to ensure continuous and smooth
discharge of vessels in order to achieve quick turnr-around of vessels.
The cost of rental and operating these stores in each of the project
years at the seaport towns were as follows:
Stores                            Annual
Seaport      CapacitY       Rental (Annual)   Operating Cost
Tonnes              N                   N
Lagos          100,000        1,500,000            200,000
P//Harcourt     10,000          100000,             SO,OOO
Calabar         10,000          1OO,OOO             SO,OOO
Warri           10,000           SO,000             30,000
Total per year 130,000      1,750#0000             N330,000
The loan expected that funds would be provided for the construction of
stores at the national level for the storage of about 250,000 tonnes,
but FPDD could only rent stores during the period with total storage
capacity of 130,000 tonnes.
4.9  Recovery of Sales Proceeds
The underlying principles of recovery arrangement were:
-    to minimise institutions involved in subsidy paymentsa



- 60 -
-    to minimise the amount of subsidy payments between one
institution and the others and
-    to encourage the subsidy paying institution to incur the
expenditure in the first instance and thereby either
avoid the need for or minimise the amount of subsidy
payments.
During the project period, the FPDD intensified efforts towards
the recovery of sales proceeds through the establishment of
account receivable process. The response by agencies to FPDD
attempts, though encouraging, had not been up to the loan
expectations. Table 4.4 shows the monthly phasing of the
recoveries by FPDD while table 4.5 shows the total invoicing
based on the debts owed FPDD on collected fertilizers by the
agencies.
Out of the N297.324 million invoiced by FPDD to the States and
Agencies, only M57,918,135 had been recovered from the states.
This represented about 19.5% of total debt.
Out of the N24.1 million received in 1986, about N22 million
related to 1985 sales. Very little was received in 1985 in
respect of fertilizers delivered in that year because FPDD was
not able to render the invoices to the Agencies until the first
and second quarters of 1986 in respect of 1985 deliveries. Non
receipt of invoices gave the Agencies an easy excuse for non
payment. Certain Agencies utilised the funds for other
purposes.
Although invoices were promptly rendered in 1986 in respect of
deliveries made in that year, most agencies still failed to
effect payment for the following reasons:
-    some claimed that the fertilizers had not been sold and
hence they had no funds with which to effect payment,
-    some utilized the proceeds of 1986 fertilizers sales to
settle indebtedness of 1985 deliveries.
The major component of amount received for 1986 deliveries were
from cooperatives who were required to pay in advance before
collecting the fertilizers.
Withholding of Supplies
FPDD was unable to withhold supplies from debtor agencies for
the following reasonss
i)   It had insufficient warehouses to hold such fertilizers so
withheld.
ii)  It considered that withholding supplies would deprive
farmers the use of the fertilizers at the time they



- 61 -
require them.
The major attempt made was to-use a special team of accounts
reconciliators and debt chasers to visit, persuade and chase
the Agencies to effect payment. Significant recoveries of over
150 million were made during the second half of 1986 when this
special team was used.
Table 4.4 shows the total fertilizer sales recoveries while
Table 4.5 shows the estimated indebtedness of the Agencies in
December 1986.
Table 4.4     Phasing of Fertilizer Recoveries (N000)
Cropping Season
Year          1984       1985    1986      1987     1988
1984         20,428       -         -        -         -
1985         11,198       642       -        -         -
1986           -       53.313    5,4?2       -
1987           -        5,506   21,190   4,190         -
1988           -          -      6,019      332      1,790
Total  .     31,626   59,461   32,681   4,451        1,790
Table 4.5:  Fertilizer Invoice Debtors and Recoverables
State                         (W'OOO)
1984       1985        1986        Total
Abuja                   500        1566        127         2193
Anambra                2555       6513        1944        11012
Bauchi                 3135      13115        4065        20315
Bendel                 1253       4857        1626         7736
Benue                  3552      12743        4459        20754
Dorno                  4714       8484        1767       14965
Cross River             699       1539         745         2983
Gongola                7115       5639        2935       10689
Imo                     619       3667        4139         8425
Kaduna                 1852      37951        8626        48429
Kano                   4219      45270        1838        51327
1wara                  1809       4302        2347         8458
Lagos                    89       3229        1586         4904
Niger                    -        1980        3204         5184
Ogun                   1052       2284         856         4192
Ondo                   1S78       2904          13         4495
Oyo                    1982       3337        249S         77S4



62 -
Table 4.5 contd.
Plateau               6992       21976       6970        32938
Rivers                 430        1012        613         2055
Sokoto                5369       18163       4984        28516
41514     200531      55279       297324
Source: FPDD, Lagos.
4.10 Fertilizer Sale Pricin!
A fixed uniform and country wide selling price was fixed for
each type of fertilizer. However, demand-supply imbalance at
certain times resulted in the development of a parallel market
whereby farmers had to pay a premium on the officially fixed
price to obtain the fertilizers.  Sales from the approved depot
locations and retail outlets of the distribution agencies were
however at the fixed uniform price.
FPDD was constrained in preventing the development of parallel
and premium prices since it had no legislative power to stop
the culprits. It is, however, proposing a Fertilizer Use and
Cbntrol Decree which will give it legal powers to prevent sales
at any other price other than regulated prices.
4.11 Trainin@ and Communication Costs
The loan provided US $ 300,000 for the training of key FPDD
staff in relevant areas but only a total of K95,000 was spent
on the training of 12 PPDD staff during the period, while no
communication equipment was bought leaving the balance of
$275,000 provided for it in the loan to lapse.
the loan provided for the completion of 3 studies which the
FPDD completed in 1984/85 period at a total cost of US $800,000
4.12 Audit and Accounts
PPDD accounts for the period - 1984 to 1986 were properly
audited by various audit firms as required by the loan
agreement.
4.13 Insurance
Insurance cover on fertilizers were up to delivery at the ship
side. This was included in the prices quoted by suppliers and
were generally of the order of 1.25 of the C.I.F. price.
There were no insurance on the subsequent transportation to the
Agencies but transporters were surchanged for losses incurred
in transit.



- 63 -
In 1986, PPOD made it obligatory for each Agency to collect at
shipside and transferred the risk of transit losses to the
Agencies. However, these Agencies similarly did not insure the
fortilizers against transit losses and consequently bore such
losses as well as losses occasioned by shortcomings of their
own transporters.
4.14   Fertilizer Prices
Fertilizer prices were reviewed and increased in 1984, 1985 and
1986 farming seasons.
Fertilizer Prices and Subsidies (N/per tonne) 1984-1986
1984           1985          1986
Low    High    Low    High    Low   High
Farmers price         100    120      140    190     170    200
Subsidy Rate           50%    50%     40%    40%      28%    28%
Price Increase %      1174   115%      40%    58%     21%    5%
4.15   Accounts and Audit
Government accounting records in the form of vote books were
maintained solely for fertilizer operations. However, although
the accounts were in accordance with government financial
regulations, they were not necessarily in line with commercial
enterprises. There were no analysis of expenditures according
to their nature. Neither were regular (monthly) management
accounts prepared. The accounts were on a receipts and
payments basis and did not follow the accrual concept.
Accounts for audit were prepared several months in arrears.
The accounts for the year ended 31st December were prepared by
the auditors while PlDD prepared the accounts for 1985 and
1986. Independent auditors, approved by the World Bank carried
out the audits for 1984 and 1985. The audit for 1986 is yet to
be commenced. While the auditor for 1984 accounts gave a clear
and unqualified report, the auditor for 1985 reported that some
Agencies were unable to confirm balances owed to PPDD.
Table 4.6 contains the summary of the key figures in the
audited accounts for 1984 and 198S



- 64 -
Table 4.6. Summary of Audited Accounts, 1984 and 1985
YEAR                        1984            1985        1986
Date Accounts Prepared      Dec. 1985      Dec. 1986   May 1987
Date Audit Completed        June 1986      June 1987  Not started
Auditor                   Mojibola Oluwa  Ehiemua       Ehiemua
Fertilizer Operations Results for 1984 and 1985
1984        1985
W'000      N'000
Gross Sales                       160629    327785
Less
Fed. Govt. Subsidy                 70296     98335
Intra State Distribution Margin  26999       39376
Invoice value to Agency            63334    191074
Less Bad Debts for
Non-deliveries                       -         8344
Recoverable from Agencies          63334    181730
Procurement - Foreign              91154    173474
- Local                7104       5517
Clearing
Transportation - Contractors       53755    15176
- Agencies           -      65752
Monitoring/Supervision
Forts Operations                             12S6
Warehouse Rentals                             4050
152013    265225
Demurrage                             73       1023
Less Despatch earnings               631        725
Net Demurrage/(Despatch)           (558)        298
General/Admin
Salaries & Wages                    247         164
Technical Assistance                542        1954
Studies                              -           20
Rents Office                         -          100
Audit                               103         800
General                             187         700
1079       3018



- 65 -
Finance
World bank charges                  911         -
Interest                             -          -
Commercial Bank Charges             373        225
Rate of exchange fluctuations        -        9255
10539        -
Less Interests earned - Deposits   -           2384
BALANCE SHEETS AS AT 31ST DECEMBER 1984 to 1985
1984       1985
N'OOO      N'000
FIXED ASSETS                          -         443
DEIVORS
- Agencies                         42905      174088
Less Provision doubtful debts       -         8344
42905      165745
State Government Subsidies         20188       47044
Advance F.S.F.C Kaduna              1168        2379
Total Debtors                      64261      215168
BANK BALANCES
Deposits correspondent Banks        2933        5866
Project Account - CBN                 -          472
CBN - Fertilizer Collection a/c       -         2058
Cash                                  -           0.1
Total Bank/Cash Balances            2933        8396
CREDITORS
Local Transportation & expenses    368         30642
Foreign - demurrage & despatch        -         2323
Total Creditors                      368       32965
NET ASSETS                         66826      191042
FEDERAL MINISTRY OF AGRIC.
Opening Balance                                 2835
Funds Released for procurement
- Overseas procurement                         93022
- Local transportation & other
expenses                                     64967
Less utilisation of CBN Sales
collection                                    (30000)



- 66 -
Total FGN Account                 (2835)      12S1SS
ACCUIULUATZD DEFICIT                          (94833)
woD BANK LOAN                     6961        160720
68826      191042
.m.        uuuuinm



- 67 -
CHAPTEM V
flISlTX&L PRWRORIEc
It is the objective of the ?GM to improve farm productivity,
enhance rural income and make Nigeria self-sufficient in food
and fibre.  The realisation that this objective could beat be
achieved by stimulating widespread use of fertilizers alongside
other complementary farm inputs prompted the Nigerian Fertilizer
Import Loan I Project.
Some of the assumptions underlying the projections of the
fertilizer needs of the nation during the loan period are:
(i)  the gradual increase in fertilizer consumption in the
southern states consequent upon the start-up of several
phased-ADPs there by 1984w
(ii) elimination of three mixed fertilizer typess 26-12-0,
20-0-20 and 20-20-0 from the fertilizer mixp and
(iiL) increase in the proportion of high-analysis materials.
The effective operation of the loan was predicated on the
assumption that the different arms of the agricultural industry
of the nation, each playing its unique role, would work
harmoniously to achieve the stated objectives. These ams are
research institutions (research institutes and universities),
the River Basin and Rural Development Authorities (ERRDhs), the
ADPs and the State Ministries of Agriculture and Natural
Resources. Generation of new technologies on fertilizer use was
within the purview of the research institutions while the
different RBRDAs, ADPs and State Ministries of Agiculture had
the task of transferring the generated technology to the farmer,
the ultimate user. The end result of such a harmonious
cooperation would be the anticipated increase in farm
productivity and enhancement of rural income and quality of
life.
This chapter reviews the performance of each o0 the above
components of the system with respect tos
(i)  the correct identification of the fertiliser need and the
distribution of the correct type to the different kinds of
farmers I
(Li) the effectiveness of different extension arms In promoting
use of fertilizerst
(iii) changes in fertilizer six and the effect of thes* on the
agronomic efficiency# and



- 68 -                0
(iv) changes in the timeliness of delivery of fertilizers to the
various agricultural areas and its effect on agronomic
efficiency.
1 Corroct identification of Fertilizer Neead and Distrii~ution of
Correct TYPs to Varmers.
Different crops are dominant in the different zones of the
country (cereals in the north and root and tubers in the south).
Based on the nutrient demands of the dominant crops and the
nutrient status of the soils in the different geographical 2ones
of Nigeria, a fertilizer programme weighted in favour of N and X
in the south and of N and P in the north, was worked out by the
research institutions. To what extent these factors were taken
into consideration in the distribution of different fertilizers
is seen from Tables S.1 and 5.2 which clearly show that the
expected approximate ratios of 3:2sl 2:sl1 and 1:1:1 in the
north, southwest and southeast, respectively were achieved.
It had been hoped that by 1984 and 1985. respectively, 25% and
30% of the total fertilizer supply would be distributed to the
south.  As seen from Table 1, the bulk allocation made to the
States was not as anticipated. Throughout the loan period, only
18% of the allocation was distributed to tho south (8% and 10%
rspectively to the south-west and south-ast) while the north
received 82% of the allocations. The reason behind the failure
to achieve the stated objective is that many of the southern
ADPs did not take-off effectively within the loan period.
Table 5.1:    1984-1986 Fertilizer Suolies to States-
I o00  tonnes nutrient)
STATES               1984                198S              1986
N     P  0   ZO    N    P  0    X 0        N  P  0    R
2 5   2             2  S    2           2  S    2
I Northern
Abula      1.91   1.48  1.01   1.91   1.65   1.02  0.14  0.14   0.
Bauchi    1S.04  10.18  5.70  15.06   8.28   S.52 11.16  S.41   1.
Benue     18.95   7.33  4.22  17.88   7.09   4.40  9.70  5.06   1.
Borno      9.02   S.56  2.93   1.03   5.41   3.22  4.01  3.16   1.
Gongola    4.90   4.98  2.06   7.09   4.92   2.40  7.27  5.80   0.
Kaduna    34.52  26.65 12.68  35.02  27.13  12.76 15.27 14.61  4.
Kano      S1.36  21.60 18.00  34.96  21.38  16.82  3.38  2.48   1.
Swara      3.61   3.36  2.46   4.56   3.64   2.84  3.96  2.99  1I
Niger      6.64   4.93  1.92   7.01   5.30   2.13  5.51  4.48   1.
Plateau   21.59  15.05  4.27  26.31  14.40   5.00 16.76 10.24   1.
Sokoto    14.30  16.15  4.35  23.88  16.16   4.36 11.44 10.30   2.
Totals     161.84.117.27 59.60 174.71 11S.41  60.47 88.65 64.67  18.



- 69 -
U1 South-West
,BendelT   5.12   2.99  3.18   4.28   2.85   2.93  3.09  1.62   1.11
Lagos      3.08   0.18  0.23   1.62   0.54   0.55  0.21  0.15   0.15
Ogun       3.00   1.30  1.81   2.94   1.21   1.43  1.50  0.60   0.57
Ondo       3.67   1.47  1.71   4.06   2.03   1.84  0.04  0.00   0.00
Oyo        5.18   2.60  2.27   5.40   2.94   2.50  4.23  2.S7   1.68
Totals      20.05   8.54  9.20  18.30   9.S7   9.25  9.07  4.94   3.51
III South-East
Anambra    7.67   5.69  6.03   7.31   4.98   5.51   2.43  1.83  1.82
C/River    0.98   0.81  1.04   1.50   1.10   1.27   1.43  1.18  1.33
Dmo        5.10   4.48  5.29   4.30   3.66   4.64   5.17  4.22  4.49
Rivers     1.76   1.39  1.79   1.37   0.80   1.27   1.08  0.39  0.36
Totals      15.51  12.37 14.15  14.48  10.54  12.69  10*.10  7.62  8.00
Table 5.2:  Summary of Fertilizer Nutrient Supplies (1000
tonnes) and Ratios'
Fertilizer Nutrient
Regions       N       P 0      K  0      Total    N   P0   1 0
2 5      2                       2 5   2
Nrth        445.20  297.35   138.78      881.33   3.2 s 2.1 s 1.0
South-West   47.42   19.95    21.96       89.33   2.2 : 0.9 : 1.0
South-East   40.09   30.53    34.84      105.46   1.2 s 0.9 : 1.0
Totals      532.71  347.83   195.58    1076.12
*Derived from Table 5.1
5.2 The Effectiveness of the Extension Arms in Promotin! Use of
Fertilizers
I/
In a 1981 survey on extension services and level of agricultural
knowledge in Funtua and Gombe ADPs, it was found th,it most
farmers knew in some general way that fertilizers increased crop
yields. A survey in early 1984 indicated an awareness level of
60* for fertilizers among Ilorin ADP farmers. Thus, in almost
all ADPs, the level of awareness for fertilizers among the
farmers was already high as definite fertilizer campaigns had
been mounted during the pre-loan period. What was of paramount
1/ Brivens, J. 1981. Some notes on the extension services and
level of agricultural knowledge in the three northern
projects. APNEPU, November 1981.



- 70 -
interest among the ADPs during the loan period war to ensure the
timely availability of fertilzers and the creation of more.
fertilizer distribution points which would make fertilizers
available to the farmer at pointa less than lOkm from his
doorstep.
In summary, the impact of the loan in stimulating the wider and
better use of fertilixers in most states was small in relation
to its effect in making fertilizers more readily available to
the farming population. Fertilizer demonstrations were
deeemphasised in the project areas as more farmers in these
areas had adopted the packages and were moving on to the
mass-adoption stage. Failure by some farmers to adopt the
fertilizer component of the crop production package was usually
governed by several factors among which were%
li) lack of capital and high fertilizer prices;
(ii) inadequate knowledge of the benefit of fertilizerst
fiii) local belief in the inherent fertility of their soils and
the irrelevance of fertilizers to themp and
(iv) the fear that quality and storability of some crops
(particularly yam and okro). were reduced when grown with
fertflizers.
5.3 Changes In the Fertilizer Mix and the Effect of the Changes
on Agronomic Ef riciepc
Prior to the loan, six straight and five compound fertilizers
were marketed in different parts of the country (see table
3). The straight fertilizers were sulphate of ammonia (S/A)s
Urea, Calcium ammonium nitrate (CAN), boronated superpho-
sphate(BSP) and muriate of potash (MOP)   The compound
fertilizers consisted of N-P-K 15-lS-15, 26-12-0 20-20-0,
20-0-20 and N-P-K-Mg The percentage shares of each of these
products in the total import are seen in table 5.3.
A decision was taken before the loan period to phase out the
importation of 26-12-0, 20-0-20 and 20-20-0 which had an
aggregate 13% of annual fertilizer import because of:-
(i) complication of the distribution and confusion to
farmers inherent in such a multiplicity of productsa
(ii) low level of uses and
(iii) agronomic unsuitability.
Another major decision was to change the product mix by
increasing the proportions of high analysis materials (urea,
MOP and 1S-15-15, containing respectively 45% 60% and 45% of
total useful nutrients). This change was based on the
anticipated reduction in per-unit nutrient cost as well as
storage and transportation costs.



- 71 -
Consequent upon the loan. and as expected. there was a
successful elimination of 26-12-0, 20-20-0 and 20-0-20 as
their importation ceased after 1983. Other discernible
Table 5.3s Fertilixer Imports 1982 - 1986
(I by weight of Total SmUortR
Product     1982       1983       1984      1985       1986
A/S          9.3         -         2.6       2.6        8.5
Urea         5.9        9.7       14.5      15.6       15.2
CAN         16.5       15.0       17.4      17.1       11.3
SSP          2.4        9.0        8.9       4.8       13.4
BSP           5.1       5.3        2.9       6.5        3.4
MOP          2.1         -         0.6       0.2         -
DAP           -          -         7.0       6.9       11.7
15-15-15    40.2       41.5      41.0       41.1       30.9
12-12-17-2   1.0        0.9        S.0       5.3        1.7
26-10-0      7.3        5.5
20-20-0     10.3        2.6         -         -          -
20-0-20       -          -          -         -          -
changes were the reduction in the percentage of sulphate of
ammonia from 9.3% in 1982 to 2.6% in 1984 and 1985t however,
the percentage in 1986 rose to 8.5 because of special
requests from some ADPs as it was recommended as top dressing
for rice. These changes were accompanied by a corresponding
increase in the import share of urea from a pre-loan annual
average of 8.3% to 15.1% for 1984, 1985 and 1986. Di-ammonium
phosphate made an inroad into the nations fertilizer market
in 1984 and its share of the market almost doubled from 7.0%
in that year to 11.7% in 1986.
the fertilizer loan I document (Ogunfowora et al 1983) showed
that response coefficients varied form 2-12 for sorghum to
19-63 for Yam, depending on the ecological zone and the
practice involved. Evidence from results of research from
research institutes and demonstrations in ADP sites have
shown evidence of improved response coefficients over the
loan period. But to what extent these improvements can be
attributed to the loan is not immediately quantifiable. Such
quantification will have to rely on more comprehensive
fertilizer response studies in the different agro-ecological
zones and different crop enterprises at tbe farm level.
In conclusion, the twin-objective of phasing out importation
of 26-10-0, 20-20-0 and 20-0-20 and increasing the proportion
of high-analysis fertilizers was satisfactorily achieved.
Even though intuition, theoretical and experimental
considerations indicated improved productivity over the loan
period, it was not possible to attribute the increase in
productivity solely to the effect of the Loan. This is
because the effect of increased fertilizer use could not be



_ 72 -
separated from the effects of the other components of the
crop production package (crop protection chemicals, improved
tillage method and use of high-yielding crop varieties).
5.4 Effect of Chances in the Timeliness of Delivery of
Fertilizers to Proiects on A2ronomic Efficiency
mhe pre-1984 deliver'es of fertilizers to the projects had
usually been chaotic and sometimes unpredictable, and at
times arrived after the season. But in 1984, there was an
improvement in terms of timeliness and adequacy of supplies
consequent upon a widened delivery network. The preliminary
report of the 1985 supplementary fertilizer survey by APMEPU
noted that fertilizer was generally brought two months late
from the commencement of the cropping season in both the
southern and northern projects. Indications from the 1984,
1985 and 1986 supplementary fertilizer surveys by APMEiWU were
that farmers did not always buy the appropriate type of
fertilizers, but only bought whatever was available at the
agro-service centres.
The agronomic implications of the lateness in delivery of
fertilizers to projects, inadequacy of supply and the supply
of the inappropriate types of fertilizers cannot be
over-emphasized.  At best, there is a reduction in agronomic
efficiency of the fertilizer, but for cereals that required
fertilization at the time of planting, and a later top
dressing, there may be a total crop failure if the soil is
inherently poor. Besides, application may be done when the
fertilizer may be harmful to the crop. Also, the level of
fertilizer applied to the crop may be so reduced as to reduce
its agronomic efficiency.



- 73 -
cuWTR VI
MAKAGENEK? INFORMATION SYSYTKMS IIS)
6.   Introduction
The completion report on the MIS component is presented
herewith under three headings (1) Project Report Proposal (2)
Performance vis-a-vis the proposal (3) Conclusion and
recommendations.
6.1 Proiect Report Proposal
6.1.1 Obiective
The objective of the MIS proposal for FPDD in the Project
Report was to provide all levels (3 management, specifically
FPDD, with information required to maonitor and adjust the
fertilizer procurement and distribution operations for
meeting management and financial targets. This was presented
under two headings (i) monitoring of physical operations,
'ii) monitoring of financial operations.
6.2 Monitoring of PhXsical Operations
6.2.1 Introduction
Fertiliser operation and associated information flow forms a
continuous loop, as shown below, from demand assessment and
sequentially through procurement, shipping, transportation,
storage and sale which in turn generates demand for
assessment:-
PREQUESTS
DEMAND                                  SALES
|   APPROVED DEMAND                    RETAIL
ALLOCATION
PROCUREMENT                           STORAGE
PROCUREMENT PLAN   DISTRIBUTION  STOCKS/SALES
SCHEDULE      SUMMARIES
SHIPPING           -                ) TRANSPORTATI-'N:
The MIS proposals for each of the components in the above
loop are discussed belows-



_ 74 -
6.2.2 Demand Assessment
For an assessment of demand, collection of the following
information from the users is considered to be essentials-
-    historical pattern of sales in each zone,
-    quality and types of products required in each zone,
-    phasing of zonal requirement showing earliest and latest
times,
-    available zonal primary and secondary storage
capacities,
-    availability of financial resources.
Based on responses, FPDD will review with individual users'
requests and reach agreement on any ammendments.
6.2.3   Procurement
Based on the following information FPDD was to prepare a plan
for procurement in one or more stagess-
-    the agreed phasing of the States requirement;
-    finances available from FGN budgetary allocation and
anticipated amount and phasing of releases;
-    finance available from internal sources (receipts from
farmers);
-    time period required to complete the procurement and
delivery of fertilizer to farmer (time flow path)t
To monitor this plan, physical progress reports would be
produced highlighting variances in completing the activities
from receipt of user request to the issuance of letter of
credit.
6.2.4  Shipping and Port Clearance
A weekly report would be produced to highlight variances
against the plan (sequence and estimated time of arrival of
ships, port of discharge and allocation to States by
products).
6.2.5   Delivery to Distribution Centres
Information requLrement for planning and distribr2,  should
includes



- 75 -
- planned and actual deliveries to States;
- stock level of the products in the distribution zone;
- available storage space (far all products) in the zonel and
- recent revision of States demand.
Based on the distribution plan, the States distribution
centres will be notified through PPDD of expected deliveries.
A weekly report would be prepared on the discharges of ships,
quantities despatched to each distribution centre and mode of
transportation. The discharge and despatch position will be
compared with the plan to identify and estimate the effect of
variances and to take corrective action such as amending the
distribution schedule and notifying the users.
6.2.6  Stocks and Sales
FPDD would obtain monthly, from the distribution centre
through the regional offices, the following informations-
-    receipts at the centre and despatches to the retail
outletsl
-    sales to farmers from ultimate retail outletst
-    stock position identifying slow moving products5
-    transfers to and from other distribution centres.'
-    outstanding debtors, cash collection and transportation
costs,
The monthly report would be compared with the plan to
determine whether:
-    allocation or despatches to retail outlets are fair and
in line with the plan and if otherwise reasons for
variancess
-    stock position is adequate taking into consideration any
scheduled despatches from portsa
-    modifications are required in the distribution plan
considering available storage capacity.
FPDD would use the sales data from distribution centre to
compile statistics on zonal, state and national consumption
and its seasonal variations. This information will be used
for forecasting national demands and assessing user agencies'
requests for the next cropping season.



_ 76 -
6.3 Financial Monitorins System
6.3.1  Introduction
A Financial Monitoring System was to be implemented with the
following objectivess
i.  all parties are aware of the financial provisions of
FPDD operational plans;
ii.  planned income, in the form of collections of the
farmers share of the fertilizer cost, are received fully
and on schedule;
iii. operating local currency expenditure which is mainly for
clearing and transportation are within budgetary limitst
iv.  subsidy contributions by FGN are received;
V.   adequate foreign currency is available for importationi
vi.  funding constraints are anticipated in sufficient time
to allow for their resolution;
vii. supervising agencies (IBRD, FMA, NFCC) are informed of
the financial position of FPDD;
viii. financial data are provided for decision making in
regard to subsidy, retail price, stocks and future cash
requirements.
These objectives were to be achieved by adopting the
following proceduress-
6.3.2   Financial Budget
Preparing annual budgets on the basis of initial demand
estimates. Also, each month cashflow forecast should be
prepared to cover the following six months.
6.3.3   Fertiliser Sales Receipts
Charging monthly each State distribution agency with the
recoverable value of the fertiliser supplied.  Reconciliation
of supplies to the centres should be carried out with
receipts at these centres, and unmatched supplies should be
queried and transporter surcharged.  Regular reconciliation
should also be carried out between quantities imported and
distributed and the costs incurred on clearing and
transportation by each mode.



- 77 -
6.3.4   Control Over Operating Expenditure
Control over each item of expenditure should be kept using
analysis heads concept in maintaining the accounting records.
6.3.5   Funding and Subsidy
Based on the procurement plan, FPDD will establish and agree
on the amount required from FGN, for its one time funding
during the project years or its subsidy share after that
period, together with the timing of release of such funds.
6.3.6   Foreign Exchange
FPDD will prepare and submit quarterly progress reports to
FMA, IBRD and other supervising agencies showing actual and
budgeted incomes and expenditures, statement of progress
achieved, financial position with outstanding receivables and
liabilities.
6.3.7   Annual Audited Accounts
FPDD will prepare annual audited accounts and appoint an
external auditor acceptable to all parties, including the
Auditor General.
6.4  Implementation of MIS
The Project report mentioned that the MIS proposals have been
stated in broad outline and prior to implementation a
M%anagement Information Specialist will carry out a detail
design of the system and consider the feasibility of a
mechanised or computerised system of information processing.
The Specialist will be responsible for the implementation of
the system and training of the staff in its operation. For
this purpose, a Procedure Manual will be produced.
Communication facilities such as radio, telex and courier
service would be instituted to cover the major outside
locations.
6.5 Monitoring of Physical Operations
6.5.1  Demand Assessment
A demand assessment was carried out in 1984 when NAFCON were
the management consultants, and in 1985 when Crown Agents
were the Management Consultants. An assessment was made in
1985 of the available zonal primary and secondary storage
capacities. PPDD has been reviewing with the individual
users regularly their request for fertilizers.



78 -
6.5.2  Procurement
Although the fertilizer operations were not planned based on
the Time Flow Path (showing activities and their durations in
a network), a less formal procurement plan had been prepared
by FPDD on the basis of States requirement. An example of a
monthly progress report prepared by the Management
Consultants# (Peat Marwick Ani Ogunde Consultants - August
1986) is as followas
1. Summary
(highlighting the major activities)
2.   Ports Operation
2.1 Planned Arrivals
2.2 Ship Discharges and outturns
2.3 Port losses
2.4 Discharges from Ports
3.  Logistics and Distribution
3.1 Distribution
3.2 Warehousing
4.  Finance
4.1 Invoicing
4.2 Recoveries of sales proceeds
4.3 State subsidies
4.4 Outstanding Accounts
4.5 Management Information
6.5.3  Shipping and Port Clearance
A weekly report was prepared by the MIS Section of PPDD
showing by fertiliser type the quantities contracted,
arrived,p discharged at all ports, advised,, and to be loaded
abroad. The report also contained information for each
vessel on product it carried, port, tonnage, its arrival and
departure date as well as a report on fertilizer distribution
to States/Agencies to date for the cropping season. However,
in this report, no attempt was made to compare the actual
with the planned operation. The monthly report of the
Consultant gave the planned arrivals and highlighted the
variances. The weekly report should show the planned
arrivals and highlight the variances.
6.5.4  Deliverv to Distribution Centres
Information availability on stock levels of the products in
the distribution centres and the available storage space is
very poor. Although a Master Distribution Plan was prepared,



- 79 -
and the attendant agencies were duly notified, no attempt was
made to give the planned and actual deliveries to the distri-
bution centres in the weekly report prepared by the MIS
Section (although distribution to State Agencies was shown).
The monthly report prepared by the consultants (refer para
3.1.2) gave details of the Statewide allocation and
collection of fertilizer as well as the warehouse throughput
from the Lagos warehouses to the FPDD (receipts, collected by
agencies, closing stock, rebag losses and storage losses).
In the monthly report, for each of the State the cumulative
collection by it was compared with the cumulative allocation
to it and the overall requirement. This information was
found to be very useful and helped to identify the defaulting
State so that corrective action could be taken.
6.S.5 Stocks and Sales
The proposal made in the Project Report for stocks and sales
information to be sent monthly to FPDD by the distribution
centres through their regional offices never materialised.
In the absence of an efficient communication facility and
direct authority of FPDD over the distribution agencies,
collection of such a- information on monthly basis though
desirable, was an am: tious proposal. However, this can be
done on quarterly bau is, by continuous persuasion and follow
up by the PPDD using the courier system and on monthly basis
during peak sales season (again using the courier system till
radio equipment is installed). As discussed earlier, zonal
sales and stock assessment was made in 1984 and 1985 by the
consultants and never updated in 1986. It was learnt that
FPDD in the past have sent out teams to the field to carry
out physical verification of stocks at the distribution
centres.
Availability of reliable information on sales and stocks of
distribution centres by FPDD was considered to be extremely
essential for demand assessment as well as to identify slow
moving stocks. This should also form the basis of
allocations to States. In the absence of this crucial
information, fertiliser procurement and distribution could
not be efficiently carried out and all planning became
impossible.
6.6 Financial Monitoring
The performance with regard to financial monitoring is
discussed item by item as followss-
6.6.1 Financial Sudget
Annual budgets were prepared by FPDD. Monthly cashflow
forecasts to cover the following six months have never beem
prepared by FPDD. However, it has been realized that the
preparation of monthly cashflow forecasts could significantly



- 80 -
improve financial management.
6.6.2 Fertilizer Sales Receipts
Monthly report produced by the consultants placed emphasis on
recoveries of the sales proceeds and listed the total
indebtedness of each State. Attempts were also continuing
for reconciliation of supplies to the centres by sending
special teams and some progress in this direction had been
achieved. However, as proposed in the Project Report, the
distribution centres had not been sending monthly sales ald
stock summaries. Monthly reports showed that attempts were
made for reconciliation between quantities imported and
distributed and the costs incurred on transportation.
Reconciliations, however, continue as a major weakness of the
existing system and need considerable emphasis and attention
of management.
6.6.3 Coratrol over Operating Expenditure
Proposal for using analysis heads in the accounting records
for monitoring and control of operating expenditure was not
implemented and there was no report produced showing budgeted
and actual expenditures. A budgetary control system based on
Project Report proposal should have been implemented by FPDD.
6.6.4 Funding and Subsidy
As proposed, FPDD established the subsidy amounts required.
However the timing of release of the funds was not adhered
to.
6.6.5 Foreian Exchange
Based on the Procurement Plan, FPDD reached agreement with
the financial agencies (IBRD, FGN, A.E. CBN) in respect of
foreign currency requirements and phasing and no serious
problems were encountered. However, as visualized, monthly
reports were not prepared on the availability and utilization
of the foreign currency component and on outstanding
commitments. It would be useful if the monthly report
prepared by the consultants also covered this aspect.
6.6.6. Progress Reports
The proposed, quarterly progress reports were not prepared by
the supervising agencies showing actual and budgeted incomes
and expenditures, statement of progress achieved and
outstanding receivables and liabilities. Whereas FPDD
prepared annual reports for the NCA meetings, the consultants
prepared monthly progress reports. However, there was no
report prepared by FPDD showing actual and budgeted incomes
and expenditures. It is also desirable that a system of



- 81 -
budgetary control be introduced highlighting variances.
6.6.7  Annual Audited Accounts
Annual audited accounts were being prepared by the FPDD, and
FPDD did not appoint any internal auditors. The Ministry's
internal audit team has been carrying out internal audit
work.
6.7  Implementation of MIS
Prior to implementation, a Management Information Specialist
was supposed to carry out the detail design of the system.
Although in 1985 Crown Agents did bring in a Management
Information Specialist, in 1984 there was no Management
Information Specialist available with FPDD. In 1986, a MIS
specialist was recruited by FPDD, who was quite new to the
job and did not have the requisite experience of Management
Information Systems design and implementation. Therefore,
not much was achieved in terms of MIS system design (except
in 1985). A procedure manual was to be produced specifying
the step by step description of the tasks to be performed by
FPDD staff, and containing the format of the input forms and
the output reports. No procedure manual was drawn up. Crown
Agents did order and bring in a few microcomputers, but they
failed to implement the software for accounting and budgetary
control, sales and stocks system etc. MIS Section produces
only a weekly report with very limited information content.
The computers were used primarily for producing this report
and for word processing.
Communication facilities continued to be very weak with the
absence of requisite radio links and telex facilities.
6.8 Conclusions and Recommendations
No reliable information was generated on sales and storage
capacities of distribution centres though attempts were made
in this direction in 1984 and 1985. For 1986, this informa-
tion was completely missing. Availability of reliable
information on distribution centres' sales and stocks by FPDD
was considered to be extremely essential for demand assess-
ment as well as to identify slow moving stocks.  This should
also form the basis of allocations to States. In the absence
of this crucial information, fertilizer procurement and
distribution could not be efficiently planned and carried
out. Project report had proposed that stocks and sales
information for the various distribution centres be collected
on a monthly basis. In the absence of an efficient
communication facility and direct authority of FPDD over the
distribution agencies, collection of such an information on
monthly basis, though desirable, had been rather difficult.
It is recommended that this information be collected on
nvnthly basis during peak salts season and on quarterly basis



- 82 -
during off season using courier system. Continuous
persuasion and follow up will be required by FPDD for this
purpose.
The monthly report prepared by the consultants was found to
be quite useful and was comprehensive. However, it did not
provide any information on the availability and utilization
of the foreign currency component and on outstanding
commitments. The weekly report prepared by the MIS section,
provided information on shipping and port clearance as well
as on distribution to State Agencies. However, no attempt
was made to compare the actual operation with the one planned
and show variances. Moreover the weekly report did not show
deliveries to the distribution centres (either planned or
actual). The weekly report needs to be improved to show the
planned arrivals as well as planned distribution (to
distribution centres besides the aggregate deliveries to
State Agencies) and highlight the variances. For this it
might be essential to further strengthen the planning system
at FPDD.
As visualized in the Project Report, no quarterly progress
report was prepared (for the supervising agencies), showing
actual and budgeted incomes and expendituresp statement of
progress achieved and outstanding receivables and
liabilities. It is strongly recommended that a quarterly
report be prepared by FPDD on its operations. The format for
the quarterly report should be drawn up by an expert in the
area of Management Information Systems and should also
contain information on deliveries to and sales and stocks at
distribution centres which should then be aggregated at the
Zonal and State level.
Reconciliation of despatches against receipts needs greater
emphasis. Recovery mechanism also needs to be intensified.
Proposal for using analysis heads in the accounting record
for monitoring and control of operating expenditure needs to
be implemented and a report produced (at least quarterly)
showing budgeted and actual expenditures. Cashflow forecasts
should also be prepared monthly to cover the following six
months.
Very crucial to the operations of FPDD is having a sound
planning system and monitoring of the actual operations
against the plan* Sound planning requires considerable
amount of information. Besides, the information has to be
generated periodically for decision making and control
purposes. It is therefore imperative for FPDD to have a very
strong MIS Section to generate the information for planning
as well as monitoring purposes. The present staffing of the
section is extremely poor both in terms of numbers and
competence of staff. At least one officer of the same rank
as the other senior sectional heads should be reeruited to
head the HIS Section. The person should hold an MBA degree



- 83 _
and have at least 10 years experience of design and
implementation of computerised Management Information
Systems. Although the proposal on MIS in the Project Report
is very comprehensive, the head of the MIS section needs to
carry out a detailed MIS design including design of format of
input forms, documents and output reports.
Procurement of Micro Computers by PPDD in 1985 through Crown
Agents was a very positive step taken forward. However,
present usage of the micro-computers (primarily word
processing) leaves much to be desired. Computing facilities
need to be strengthened with additional hardware and software
in the areas of budgetary control, sales and stocks,
accounting etc. Staffing in the MIS Sectior. may need to be
strengthened to also include an officer with considerable
experience in the area of computer applications development.
7hough FPPD has courier arrangements, the communication
facility needs to be further strengthened with radio and
telex. All State Agencies collecting fertilisers from FPDD
need to be connected with radio link to FPDD. With an
efficient radio link, receipt of monthly returns on sales and
stocks on radio can be achieved* The monthly radio report
can be followed up by a quarterly report on sales and stocks
sent by courier by the Agencies. The radio link will also
facilitate quick reconciliations of deliveries with receipts
and enable FPDD to follow up with the Agencies slow
collections from the port. The FPDD Management should
therefore lay great emphasis on early installation of radio
equipment.



- 85 -
COMtDTS FROM THE BORROWER                                         All 1
NATIONA.L FERT LIZER COMPANY OF MGERIA LIMiTED
NAFCON PLANT COWPLEX, ONNE. P.K8. 6180, PORT HARCOURT
TEL: (SM) 82M. 320C% U4S,  U . BUM.1O
March 6, 1990
REF: 0NDIMISC/28.1
Mr Graham Donaldson
Chief
Agriculture, Infrastructure and
Human Resources Division
Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W
Washington D.C. 20433
USA
Dear Mr Donaldson,
nR: FERTIIJZER IOAN (Lt.2345-WNI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
We return herewith, the subject draft report and thank you for the
opportunity to go through it before your final report.
The report is a good representation of the actual situation and the
findings and lessons are to the point.
it is our considered view that the problems highlighted are likely
to persist for as long as local demand continues to far outstrip local
production capacity. We would, therefore, like to see a situation
where the Bank actively encourages Nigeria to quickly expand local
productior. capacity.
Yours fait Llly,
NATIONAL             CONPANY OF NIG LTD
EORGE POLLtY /
MANAGING D       R
AL""           WA.U    WA/L Aa4auhd (_; MR. EORh L POLLEY. MAw*n (_U k.; '
POFUR WAMC 6 flEA. TSPOPEOULA-0. OUUL, (DkE;MMD LTAE,(0)
ARC.G 0.0 CEOTO. t5.z; M_. A. 0. NNOOI. (DhswrkDR. L UMETAU4 



_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I8RD  12756~IRD   12756C
\ %~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
FASO
/~~~~~ 
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_MRO
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                         1
B               Nwo"C A
0    i*    o                  *    10           0
-'  a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~-
0.                                                                      Existing Trunk koods'A'           6'~~~~~ 199



