Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3640-UNI.
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE WORLD BANK
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED FERTILIZER LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US $250 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIA
August 24, 1983
This document has a restr.cted distribution snd may be used by recipients only in the perfurmance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Calendar 1982        May 1983
Currency Unit   =   Naira (N)            Naira (N)
US$             =   NO.67                NO.71
Ni              =   US$1.49               US$1.41
Used in this Report: Ni = US$1.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric (m) ton    =    0.98 long ton
=    1,000 kilograms
1 hectare (ha)            2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADA     -  Accelerated Development Area
ADP     -  Agricultural Development Project (Bank-assisted)
APMEPU  -  Agricultural Project Monitoring, Evaluation and
Planning Unit, Federal Ministry of Agriculture
ATAP    -  Agricultural Technical Assistance Project (Loan No. 2029-UNI)
FPDD    -  Fertilizer Procurement and Distribution Division,
Federal Ministry of Agriculture
IFDC    -  International Fertilizer Development Center, Muscle Shoals, USA
NAFCON  -  National Fertilizer Company of Nigeria
NPK     -  Compound fertilizers
NSS     -  National Seed Service



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
FERTILIZER LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:     Federal Republic of Nigeria
Amount:       US$250 million, including capitalized front-end fee
Terms:        Payable over 17 years, including four years of grace, at
standard variable interest rate.
Loan
Description:  The Loan would finance part (nearly 60 percent) of the foreign
exchange cost of importing about 2 million tons of fertilizer
required by Nigeria for the 1984 and 1985 crop years as well as
the costs of foreign training and communication equipment
required for the Fertilizer Procurement and Distribution
Division (FPDD), and studies to assist in the development of an
appropriate policy framework. It would contribute to improving
the fertilizer subsector through an agreed program of phased
reductions in subsidies, commercialization of fertilizer retail
business, and changes in procurement and marketing methods. The
Loan would present some risks. First, FPDD may not be
adequately staffed and equipped to handle the 1985 crop
program. To reduce this risk, FPDD's staffing is being upgraded
considerably. Second, NAFCON may not be ready to assume
responsibility for fertilizer procurement and distribution for
the 1984 crop year. However, every effort would be made to
prepare NAFCON for its task, and the Bank would, if necessary,
consider other viable alternatives b,efore the release of the
second tranche of the Loan. Third, Government may be unable to
provide the requisite counterpart funding. This risk would be
minimized through the pro-rata financing of the foreign exchange
cost of each shipment by the Bank and the Federal Government; if
local funds would not be released on time, the second tranche of
the Loan would be withheld. And finally, the proposed
fertilizer price increases may depress fertilizer demand to
unacceptable levels. However, this risk would be reviewed
annually by the Bank and the Nigerian authorities, and
corrective action could easily be taken.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                    Local   Foreign   Total
…-US$ million------
I.    Procurement Cost of Fertilizer
Imported (CIF)                                -       416.1    416.1
Domestic (ex-factory)                        41.2       -        41,2
Sub-total                            41.2    416.1    457.3
II.   Distribution Cost of Fertilizer
Clearing                                     46.2       -        46.2
Transportation and handling to
state warehouses                         225.6       -      225.6
Transportation and handling
within states                            101.0       _       101.0
Sub-total                           372.8       -       372e8
III. Studies, Training, Technical
Assistance and Communication
Equipment                                  -         1.7       1.7
IV.   Front-End Fee                                  -        0.6      0.6
Total                               414.0    418.4    832.0
Financing Plan:
IBRD Share                                  -     250.0    250e0
Government Share                         414.0    168.4    582.4
Total                               414.0    418.4    832.4
Estimated Disbursements:  Bank FY                   1984      1985
US$ millions
Annual                              121.2    128.8
Cumulative                          121.2    250.0
Appraisal Report: None



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED FERTILIZER LOAN TO THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIA
*   1.   I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed loan
to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$250 million to
help in the import of requisite quantities of fertilizers for the crop years
1984 and 1985 and to assist the Federal Government in improving the management
of the fertilizer subsector. The proposed loan would be amortized over a
maximum period of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with a standard
variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic mission visited Nigeria in May/June 1982, and a Country
Economic Report (No. 4506-UNI) will be distributed to the Executive Directors
within the next few days. Selected social and economic indicators are given
in Annex I.
Background
3.       Nigeria, with a population of over 90 million in 1982, is the most
populous country in Africa. Among Sub-Saharan Bank members, Nigeria accounted
for about 45 percent of gross output and more than 60 percent of regional
investment in 1980. Its GNP per capita is estimated at about US$820 in 1982,
which is twice the average for Sub-Saharan Africa. While Nigeria, as a major
oil exporter since the early seventies, enjoyed a substantially improved
resource base from increased oil revenues, it still remains at a very early
stage of development in terms of socio-economic indicators, in which it
compares with other Sub-Saharan countries.
4.       Following a civil war and 13 years of military rule, a new federal
constitution was adopted, and an elected civilian government came into power
in 1979. The constitution vests considerable powers in the state and local
governments, while it maintains a delicate balance between regional autonomy
and preservation of national unity. The country seems to have adjusted well
to the new form of government and to civilian rule, and it is holding national
elections in August 1983.
Macro-economic Developments
5.       Nigeria has been undergoing a rapid socio-economic transformation
since the upsurge of oil prices in 1973-74, which dramatically altered the
country's resource position. During the seventies, Nigeria's development
strategy was based on sustaining a high rate of growth and diversifying the
economy through the resources generated by the oil sector. The principal



-2-
objective of the policies pursued by the Nigerian decision-makers was to
translate the large oil revenues aLccrued - about US$100 billion in current
prices during the 1973-81 period - into investments in economic, social, and
physical infrastructure. While there have been some "non-economic" invest-
ments and waste, significant development gains were made in both economic and
social infrastructure. Transport infrastructure, particularly roads and
ports, expanded considerably.  Power generating capacity tripled, and refining
capacity more than quadrupled since 1973.  Manufacturing grew at an average
annual rate of 12 percent during the 1973-81 period, although there was a
highly distorted investment structure. There aLlso has been a rapid spread of
education at aLl levels; in particular, the primary enrollment ratio, which
was about 35 percent in the early seventies, has more than doubled.
6G       Developments have not been as positive in some other areas.  In
agriculture, overall output remained virtually stagnant during the 1973-81
period, with production of grains increasing at the same rate as the
population growth rate, but production of root and export crops declining
substantially. Within a decade, Nigeria became a major food importer (US$2
billion of imports in 1981). This was caused partly by sudden and rapid
growth of public expenditures, which outpaced the growth of public revenue,
and which, along with a dramatic expansion in domestic demand, resulted in
high rates of inflation. Inflation, coupled with an appreciating domestic
currency, pushed up domestic costs of production, thus putting the commodity
producing sectors at a disadvantage vis-a-vis imports and non-traded goods.
This encouraged diversion of resources from commodity production to services
(including trade and construction). Both agriculture and industry became
"high-cost" producers. Trade and iexchange rate policies, which were
formulated in response to frequent swings in oil export earnings, were largely
used to dampen inflationary pressures or ration imports rather than to provide
appropriate incentives to domestic production. This was partly due to the
fact that, as a result of the fluctuations in the world oil markets and their
impact on the balance of payments and government revenues, Nigerian
policymakers have been preoccupied with short-term crisis management. This
has diverted attention from formulating longer term policies to reduce the
country's dependence on oil and to strengthen the domestic productive sector.
7.       The Fourth Development PLan (1981-85) was prepared in 1980 when the
world oil markets again presented a favorable outlook and, accordingly,
reflects an ambitious investment program.  It did not envisage, however, the
sudden downturn of the world oil MnLrkets in 1981. The sharp decline in oil
production by about one-third, to 1.43 mbd, changed the short-and mediumi-term
prospects for the Nigerian economy significantly. The Government, during most
of 1981, was reluctant to come to grips with the situation and continued to
count, along with most observers of the oil markets, on a quick recovery of
the oil situation. As the oil market deteriorated further, imports continued
to rise as importers sought to beat the likely impending shortage of foreign
exchange.  Consequently, the current account balance in 1981 showed a deficit
of about US$5.5 billion, which had to be financed by drawing down foreign
exchange reserves and external borrowing. By the end of 1981, foreign
exchange reserves had declined to US$3.9 billion, almost one-third of the
level at the end of 1980, and equivalent to only two months of Lmports. Like
the balance of payments, public finances were also strained, since oil
revenues account for more than 80 percent of revenues of the Federal and state
governments. The Federal Government kept its expenditure level in 1981



largely intact by deficit financing, amounting to about US$6 billion. The
state governments, which had increased their spending rapidly, partly as a
result of a shift of responsibilities from the Federal to state governments
following a change in the revenue allocation formula in 1981, found it more
difficult to cope with the sudden shortfall in revenues, since they had
limited access to domestic credit. As a result, some state governments
resorted to borrowing abroad on a substantial scale. By the end of 1981,
outstanding external debt (including undisbursed) of the state governments was
about US$4.5 billion - slightly more than one third of the country's total
external debt. Despite the increase in imports and the attempt to maintain
the level of government expenditures, growth in the non-oil sectors declined
considerably. Along with the substantial retrenchment in the oil sector, real
GDP declined by 5.2 percent in 1981.
8.       In 1982, the oil markets continued to be slack, and Nigeria's oil
output declined further to an annual average level of 1.29 mbd. In the face
of rapidly rising imports in the first few months of 1982 and mounting foreign
exchange shortages, the Government, in April 1982, took a series of measures,
including: (i) increasing import duties and quantitative restrictions;
(ii) import restrictions through introduction of an advance deposit scheme;
(iii) tightening customs administration; (iv) cutting back capital expen-
ditures about 40 percent including stopping all new projects; (v) increasing
gasoline prices 33 percent; (vi) increasing interest rates 2 percent;
(vii) placing a $350 million ceiling on each state government's external debt;
and (viii) restricting capital transfers abroad. These measures were
primarily intended to arrest the further deterioration in the domestic and
external financial situation, although elements such as increases in interest
rates and the price of gasoline also reflect the Government's intention to
redress widespread price distortions in the economy. In addition to these
measures, the Government has pursued an exchange rate policy which resulted in
a depreciation of the Naira of 19 percent against the dollar and 5 percent
against the SDR during the period 1980-82.
9.       The various actions have not yet been sufficiently successful in
reversing the trend in imports, in part on account of the high level of import
approvals during the first quarter of 1982, prior to the April measures. The
current account deficit is therefore expected to have reached US$7 billion in
1982. Because of a further drawdown of foreign exchange reserves of about
US$2.3 billion, reserves are estimated to have dropped to about $1.6 billion
at the end of 1982. In addition, arrears in payments of short-term trade
credits of about US$3-4 billion accumulated during 1982.  Although payments on
longer-term borrowing remained current, this had a sharply adverse effect on
the availability and cost of external borrowing as well as on the continuation
of normal trade transactions. The Government has since taken measures to
establish priority categories for systematic payment of these arrears, and has
started the process of rescheduling important categories of these trade
arrears (para. 12).
10.      The Federal Government has generally found it difficult to cope with
the deteriorating financial situation, although the 1982 budget was reduced
after the stabilization measures were announced in April 1982. Budgetary cuts
were imposed on capital expenditures, inevitably at a substantial cost to
ongoing development programs. The financial crisis was particularly acute at
the state level. Some of the state governments were even unable to pay civil



-4-
service salaries5 and had to resort to the Federal Government for loans.
ConsequenLly, most of their projects were grossly underfunded, and some had to
be stopped,
11.      In its 1983 budget propos.al,  the Federal Government adopted a
conservative revenue outlook, based on an oil production level of one millior.
barrels a day and substantial cutbacks in planned investment expenditures.
Certain p-rojects with large foreign exchange requirements, such as the
standard-gauge railroad project, were deferred indefinitely.  In January 1983,
the Government introduced further import restrictions in the form of licence
requirements and higher tariffs to reduce the level of imports :from
US$1.3 billion to less than US$900 million a month,
Aqjus    tPolcy Issues
12.      At present, the Nigerian economy faces two critical issues: first.
management of the short-run financial crisis and stabilization of the economy;
and second3 longer-term structural adjustment of the economy by stimulating
productive sectors, lessening dependence on oil, and generating a wider
resource base. Withr regard to the short term, the additional measures that
the Government took in January 1983 to control imports have helped to arrest a
further deterioration of the external financial situation.  However, there now
remains the need to eliminate the external arrears, particularly in view of
the requirement for substantial external borrowing in the near future.
Discussions with major overseas creditor banks resulted in the rescheduling of
the arrears ow ed to these institutions (for confirmation of letters of credit)
of about $1G6 billion accumulated prior to March 31, 1983. Repayments are to
be made over a period of 31 months starting January 1984. As a result of the
rescheduling agreement, the commercial banks will likely make available to
Nigeria a revolving trade credit of about US$1.0 billion. The remaining
documented arrears (estimated at $3.3 billion as of end June 1983) are largely
private non-letter-of-credit arrears incurred under "open-account" inter-
company import financing. These will also have to be rescheduled, but the
arrangements to dio this are likely to be more complex and time-consuming.  To
these documented arrears must be added a backlog of foreign exchange requests
awaiting documentation,  The IMF, which has been asked to examine
possibilities of assisting Nigeria through an Extended Fund Facility, is
taking the need for such reschedulings into account in putting together a
financing package to meet Nigeria's minimal external financing requirements
for the period 1984-86.
13.      Whaile a rebound in oil revenues would help Nigeria to overcore the
current crisis, it will not resolve the structural issues facing the
economy.  More vigorous and consistent policies, beyond the measures taken to
restore financial stability, will be needed to bring about structural
change,  The chief requirements comprise:  (i) further incentives for
efficient export promotion and import substitution, including appropriate
exchange rate, tariff, and credit policies; (ii) complementary steps to
strengthen the balance of payments through judicious management of foreaign
borrowing and external reserves; (iii) continued control of aggregate demand
through prudence in monetary, fiscal, and wage policies; (iv) restructuring
the composition of public investment to increase its efficiency; and
(v) taking steps such as raising interest rates and improving tax collection,
to increase private and public savings and investment.  The Government is



- 5 -
currently discussing all of these policy issues with both the IMF and the
Bank.
Prospects and Financing of Development
14.      Although Nigeria's exportable crude oil surpluses are expected to be
significantly reduced well before the turn of the century, the bulk of its
foreign exchange resources will continue to come from the hydrocarbon sectors
during the next twenty years.  This will probably include liquified natural
gas (LNG), for which a major production facility is estimated to come on
stream near the end of the decade, and some petrochemical, as well as oil
*        exports.  To maintain a momentum of growth, major structural changes are
needed for adapting the economy to lower levels of oil export earnings. In
the short-run, the volume of Nigeria's oil exports is likely to be determined
by the uncertain conditions of the world oil markets rather than by the
deliberate extraction policies of the Government. It is projected that oil
production would rise to 1.5 mbd in 1986, from its level of 1.29 mbd in 1982.
15.      Terms of trade are expected to deteriorate somewhat in the short run,
and then to improve beyond 1985. However, gains from terms of trade will not
substantially alter the longer-run resource picture or the need for structural
adjustment.
16.      External borrowing requirements in the short- and long-term will be
substantial in view of slow improvements in oil export revenues, the need to
clear payment arrears, and the requirements of major ongoing projects. In
1983, the current account deficit of the balance of payments is expected to
amount to about US$3 billion (5 percent of GDP) and result in a large overall
deficit of about US$4 billion. The deficit will, in all likelihood, be
financed mostly by additional accumulation of private trade arrears,
apparently already incurred. In subsequent years (1984-86), the overall
deficit is likely to remain large. Thus, the balance of payments prospects
for these years are particularly troublesome. Large claims on foreign
exchange earnings are due in 1983-86, essentially on account of trade arrears
and repayment of public guaranteed debt. Even under conservative assumptions
with respect to imports--virtually no change in real imports--borrowing
requirements for the period 1983-86 are estimated at about US$11 billion; even
at this level the investment program would have to be highly constrained.
Since the level of reserves is already quite low, further drawdowns cannot be
used to finance the deficit as happened in 1981 and 1982. Thus, quick
disbursing external borrowings are needed to fill the gap. Estimates of
future debt service ratios have had to be revised upwards in the light of
lower forecasts of oil production and prices and, more importantly, of the
arrears. The debt service ratio, which has been quite low until now (around
9.6 percent in 1982) is expected to rise to 20 percent in 1983. If all
documented trade arrears were liquidated during the 1984-86 period on terms
similar to those being rescheduled, the debt service ratio would jump to 35
percent in 1984 before declining to 33 percent in 1985 and 27 percent in
1986. However, it is likely that the trade arrears would be rescheduled over
a longer time period in which case these debt service ratios would be lower.
Beyond 1986, the debt service ratios are likely to be 20 percent (with a
conservative assumption of oil production of 1.5 mbd) or less. Thus, while
recognizing that Nigeria has a short-term debt problem, our judgement is that
Nigeria is creditworthy for medium- and long-term borrowing provided sound



economic policies are pursued by the Government, Indeed, inc-reased lending
that would disburse over the next few years, when the debt service ratio is
sharply increased and thus import capacity sharply reduced, would be a vital
component of the economic reform and recovery program (para. 13)
PART II - B NK GROUP OPERATIONIS IN N,IGERIA
1'7.     Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of June 30, 1983 amounted to
US$2,130.6 million (net of cancellations).  The amount of these loans and
credits disbursed as of June 30, 1983 was 'US$1,032.6 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$1,098.0 million, Agriculture accounts for about 41
percent of total commitments; transport, power, and water supply together for
about 41 percent; and education, industry9 urban, and the post-vrar rehabili-
tation loan for the remaining 18 percent.  There have been only two IDA
credits to Nigeria, for US$35.3 million; both are fully disbursed. IFC has
made five loans to borrowers totalling US$1.7.3 millioni, and six equity
investments totalling US$4.9 million. of these amounts, US$5.7 million have
been repaid, cancelled, or sold.  Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments, as well as rnotes on the
execution of ongoing projects,
18.      As a result of the abrupt  clieene in earnings from oil, public
revenues have fallen sharply, causing many of the ongoing projects to run into
serious counterpart funding problems (as indicated in Annex II).  This issue
i's particularly acute for some of the state-level agricultural projects.  The
Bank, the Federal Government, and the relevant state governments have taken
various measures to alleviate the situation.  The Bank has agreed to the
reallocation of proceeds and revision of disbursement percentages to speed up
disbursements, and the Federal Government has established a development loan
stock scheme providing supplementary loans for agricultural development
projects in the states. As a result, the prospects for state funding of Bank-
assisted projects are now brighter.
19e      In view of the efforts made by the Nigerian authorities and the
serious foreign etxchange constraints projected for the coming years, we
propose to respond positively to a Federal Government request for additional
financial and technical assistance. However, such assistance would not be
fully effective without some changes ini the country's macro-economic and
sectoral policy framework, The Bank is therefore considering, as a priority,
fast-disbursing assistance aimed at supporting specific macro-economic and
sectoral policy initiatives; this includes, in the first instance, the
currently proposed fertilizer loan,
20.      Provided appropriate policy changes are undertaken, an expanded Bank
lending program would aim primarily at the urgent diversification of Nigeria's
economy to reduce its excessive dependence upon petroleum as a soilrce of
foreign exchange and fiscal revenue. At the same time, the Bank would
continue to support efforts to raise the producti-itv of the lowest income
groups and thereby diminish the incidence of absolute poverty in Nigeriac As
in recent years, the Bank would continue to provide -major support to agri-
culture and rural development, with particular emphasis on institution-
building and transfer of technology.  These objectives are in line with the
Federal Government's priorities under the Fourth Plan, which places con-
siderable emphasis on agriculture, and emphasizes thae need to use the proceeds



- 7 -
of the country's oil revenues to increase the productive capacity of the
economy, and thereby raise the standard of living of its population, parti-
cularly the rural poor. The Bank would similarly support efforts to stimulate
a well-balanced and integrated development of Nigeria's industrial sector.
This approach would entail a combination of intensive sector work, policy
dialogue with the Government, as well as Bank assistance for industrial
projects in crucial subsectors.
21.      Projects in agriculture and industry together should account for a
large share of Bank lending in the coming two or three years. Effective
support for the commodity producing sectors will also require strategic
investment in production-related infrastructure. There are good opportunities
for the Bank to make a significant contribution in energy, water supply, and
highway maintenance. Similarly, there is a strong case for continued lending
for education. In this context, vocational, technical, and teacher training
would be given special emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support the Federal
and state governments' efforts to spread the benefits of growth to the social
sectors. It is envisaged that some of the pressing problems of rapid urbani-
zation will continue to be addressed through a number of urban development
projects focussed on the needs of the urban poor. The Bank is also con-
sidering a request from the Federal Government to assist in overcoming the
country's health problems, and has started a dialogue with the Government on
population issues.
22.      Although annual disbursements have increased from US$52 million in
FY1978 to nearly US$167 million in FY1983, Nigeria's disbursement performance
has lagged behind that of other countries in the region. In the last three
years, undisbursed balances have progressively increased and now stand at 51
percent of the US$2.1 billion in loans and credits approved. One of the
reasons for this development is the rapid expansion of the Bank's loan
portfolio since 1979 as well as the fact that a number of large loans, with
relatively large, planned disbursements during the early years, were extended
during this period, mainly for agricultural projects. In many cases, however,
disbursements have been slowed by long delays in loan effectiveness and
institutional and management problems. Recently, the inadequate counterpart
funding of projects by Federal and state governments, resulting from lower oil
revenues, has further slowed disbursements. The disbursement record in
agriculture has been mixed.  At least until recently, disbursements have been
generally faster in the case of integrated agricultural development projects,
but substantial shortfalls compared to appraisal projections have been
registered in the tree crop, forestry, and livestock subsectors. Similarly,
education and power projects have been particularly slow in disbursing. The
Federal Government, with the assistance of the Bank's Resident Mission, is now
carefully monitoring loan disbursements with a view to identifying problems
early and taking corrective action. Also, the Bank has recently agreed to a
series of measures aimed at accelerating disbursements under both ongoing and
new projects (para. 18). These efforts are beginning to show results.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
23.      Agriculture continues to be the leading non-oil sector in Nigeria,
directly supporting about 60 percent of the population, providing 23 percent
of GDP, 5 percent of total exports, and 62 percent of non-oil exports. Of
about 17 million ha of annually cropped land, only 5 percent is irrigated.



The level of production technology is low9 and the traditional rainfed farming
systems predominate. In recent years, the increasing spread of education and
developments in non-agricultural sectors, combined with the drudgery of
traditional agriculture have encouraged the drift of rural youth to urban
areas. The overall effect of all these factors has been that total agri-
cultural output remained stagnant cluring the last decade. In particular,
production of staples (yam, cassava, sorghum, millet, maize, rice, and wheat)
grew at about 1 percent per year, whereas overall food demand is estimated to
be growing at the rate of 3.5 percent per annum., 1/
24.      Agricultural production is almost entirely in the hands of small-
holders, with the typical unit being a family farm of 2-4 ha. Inadequate use
is made of modern inputs, such as fertilizer and improved seeds, and of
mechanized techniques. As a result, yields are very low, and in some cases
have even declined, mainly because of deteriorating soil fertility.
Countr Policiles and Performance
25.      Successive governments have emphasized with limited success the need
to improve performance in the agricultural sector.  In the Third Five-Year
Development Plarl (1975-80),the growth rate for agriculture was targeted at
five percent per annum; the estimated actual rate, however, did not exceed one
percent.  Annual imports of food rose from about US$300 million in 1974 to
over US$2.5 billion in 1981, and agri:icultural exports declined from US$1.5
billion in 1973 to nearly US$300 million in 1981. If this trend were to
continue, it could result in a food deficit in 1'990 of 11 million tons of
grain equivalent (mtge), about 40 percent of demand, against 2.9 mtge in 1980
and 1.2 mtge in 1976.
26.      The disappointing performance of the agricultural sector can be
attributed in large part to earlier policies which placed strong emphasis on
isolated, large-scale irrigation and government-run, intensively mechanized
production schemes with generally disappointing production resulits. Little
was done to develop essential support services for the farming community as a
whole, or to develop bottomlands through small- scale, self-help induced
irrigatfon schemes which have the potential of covering 2 millioln ha as
compared to 0.8 million ha in 1978. Despite the declared intentiLons in the
Plan, smallholders, who produce over 90 percent of total agricultural output,
were not the principal focus of the agricultural strategy. The few government
sponsored programs for the development of smallholder agriculture suffered
from poor management, a shortage of funds, and from being stretched too thinly
in order to cover all states. Against this background, Bank-supported ADPs
succeeded in achieving a significant advance in smallholder agriculture.
Based on the success of the ADPs and on recognition that past policies to
promote agricultural production did nllot achieve their objectives, the Federal
Government revised its policy to provide maximum support for smallholder
production in the Fourth National Development Plan (1981-85).
27.      The current Development Plan focuses on the smallholder, and aiain to
increase crop productivity through the adoption of available technology of
I/  Nigeria:  Fourth National Development Plan, 19381-85, Vol. 1, page 76,



- 9 -
improved seeds as well as the use of scientific inputs like chemical ferti-
lizers and pesticides. The Plan envisages simultaneous institutional reform
and infrastructural support. The ADP approach of enclave projects has
recently been extended to cover the entire states of Bauchi, Kano, and Sokoto;
a similar project for Kaduna State has been negotiated. The Federal Govern-
ment's intention is to progressively extend the ADP approach to the whole
country. Since manpower and funding constraints prevent immediate replication
of a full-fledged ADP model in all of the 19 states, core components of the
ADP program are first being introduced in the country as Accelerated
Development Areas (ADAs), now called phased ADPs; these will be upgraded when
the fiscal and manpower resources improve. Phased ADPs have already been
initiated in Borno and Gongola States; additional projects are being prepared
under ATAP (Loan 2029-UNI). The Bank has been asked to assist these phased
ADPs.
28.      While an indepth analysis of three ADPs has shown that ADPs have been
successful in achieving an impressive growth rate in agricultural production
(over 6 percent per annum in ADPs between 1975 and 1980 against the national
average of 1 percent), the implementation of many ADPs has significantly
slowed down over the past year, largely because of serious local funding
constraints, particularly of the state governments, occasioned by the steep
downturn in oil revenues. This has led to delays in the expansion of
infrastructure and agricultural services, as well as gross under-utilization
of project plant, equipment, and expertise. The Bank has worked closely
during the last several months with the Federal and State Governments, and
explored various avenues to alleviate the ADPs funding problems. As a result,
in the context of the proposed fertilizer loan, the Federal Government has
agreed to provide special loans (called development loan stock) in 1983, 1984,
and 1985 to assist state governments in meeting their financial obligations to
the ADPs by reducing the states' funding share from about 35 percent to 20
percent of project cost. The Bank, on its part, has also taken measures to
improve the flow of loan funds to ADPs (para. 18).
Development Constraints and Potential
29.      The technology for enhancing crop yields is available in Nigeria, and
has been demonstrated in ADPs. In particular, extended fertilizer trials in
several states have shown a highly favorable crop response (i.e. units of
incremental yield per unit of fertilizer nutrient application). For instance,
sorghum, a major cereal crop in Nigeria, has shown mean crop response rates
ranging between 5.8 and 7.2 in different ecological zones; millet has shown a
higher mean response varying from 6.3 to 18; the maize response has fluctuated
between 7.1 and 14.4; and that of groundnut between 9.6 and 17.6. 1/ The
adoption of new technologies is, however, constrained by an inefficient input
supply system, and inappropriate government policies, mainly regarding
subsidization and agricultural credit.
30.      Among farm inputs, fertilizer is the most expensive and most bulky,
and its procurement and distribution is the responsibility of Government
1/   Source:  Various FAO Reports to the Government of Nigeria between
1970 and 1979 on fertilizer programs in different states.



- 10
(paras. 42 and 43). Because of serious inefficiencies in this system,
fertilizer use has not been fully esffective desDite a five-fold increase in
imports between. 1978 and 1981. There has been considerable wastage and a
continuing mismatch between requirements and supplies in terms of products,
timing, and quantities.
31e      Substantial subsidies have encouraged -he inefficient use of
fertilizer, and they have also placed an unsustainable financial burden on
Government, and absorbed resources which could have been utilized more
beneficially elsewhere in the sector0  The Federal Government has lately been
concerned about the rising subsidy burden.  A subcommittee of the National
Committee on Rural Development has examined the pricing and subsidy issue9 and
recommended, inter alia, a phased reduction of subsidies.
32.      The distribution of two other inputs, seeds and pesticides, is not so
severely constrained.  In the case of seeds, the Federal Governm,ent has taken
the initiative iin creating adequate institutional9 physical, and manpower
infrastructure, including the issuance of a national seed policy for multi-
Dlication of improved seeds, establishment of a National Seed Service (NSS)
and of seed processing plants and laboratories, and the organization of a
series of training courses.  Seed production is now unidertaken on a few NSS
farms and many state seed multiplication farms. The state seed production
programs, however, have not been immaune from furnding constraints, nor have the
seed quality standards been rigidly adhered' to. Seed pricing and marketing
policies, as well as linkages between the breeder, foundation, and certified
seed producers are still unclear. The private sector is becoming involved in
the production of seeds and seed marketing.  In the case of pesticides, the
public and private sectors co-exist, and the retail network is developing to
meet demand.  Since some of the pesticides, particularly herbicides, are
expensive, there is an increasing need for farm credit (para. 34).
33.      The marketing of food crops is usually done by private traders, and
is on the whole fairly competitive. The Federal Government's Technical
Committee on Producer Prices determines the guaranteed minimum prices for the
major grain crops every year.  These prices are generally much lower than the
prevailing market prices; therefore, state intervention through the Nigerian
Grains Board has seldom been necessary.
34,      An emerging constraint relates to agricultural credit. As fertilizer
subsidies decline and retail prices rise, farmers' cash requirements will rise
significantly. Increased use of pesticides, including herbicides, to provide
the necessary plant protection coverage to safeguard the increased cash
Mivestments in fertilizers will also have to be financed. Cash is also
required to pay for high-cost hired labor which is progressively replacing
low-cost family labor (due to migration from rural to urban areas). The
credit issue would be addressed through a study unrder the proposed loan (para,
54).
35.      Feeder roads for the transport of inputs and crops to and from
production areas, other infrastructure, and institutional facilities, such as
extension9 research, and marketing need strengthening,  These needs are being
adressed under ADPs but, in noi-ADP areas, infrastructural deficiencies still
constitute a problem. They are now expected to receive attention, even though
limited, under the proposed phased ADPs (para. 27).



- 11 -
36.      Given an appropriate policy framework, adequate institutional and
infrastructure support, and measures to overcome some of the constraints
mentioned above, Nigeria has the potential of achieving significant agri-
cultural production increases over the next few years, and fertilizer has a
major role to play.
The Fertilizer Subsector
37.      Eleven different types of nitrogenous, phosphatic, and potassic
fertilizers are used by Nigerian farmers to increase crop yields. In
addition, small quantities of micronutrients are also used on deficient
soils. Nigerian farmers are well aware of the benefits of fertilizer use,
though efficiency aspects need a greater focus.
38.      The Fourth National Development Plan has committed 35 percent of the
agriculture sector outlay to the fertilizer subsector to promote intensive
fertilizer use as a means of reversing growing food deficits in the country.
Of the planned increase of 3.4 million tons of grain equivalent (mtge) by the
terminal year (1985) of the Plan, fertilizer is expected to contribute 2.0
mtge. To achieve this, the Plan proposes a consumption level of 1.3 million
tons of fertilizers, approximately equal to 430,000 tons of nutrients (16.5 kg
per ha) in 1985.
Fertilizer Consumption
39.      Reliable fertilizer consumption statistics are not available.
However, it appears that Nigeria's fertilizer consumption rose from 0.27 kg of
nutrients per ha in 1970 to about 12 kg in 1981, but declined to 8.5 kg in
1982 due to import constraints (para. 44) leaving much unsatisfied demand in
an environment of acute shortages. By 1985, this figure would have to rise to
16.5 1/ to meet the Plan target of fertilizer consumption. The factors which
favor increased fertilizer use in Nigeria are: low soil fertility coupled
with low levels of existing plant nutrient use, an assured production
response, a favorable benefit-cost ratio, and the heavy dependence of new farm
technology on increased use of fertilizers.
Domestic Production
40.      The first local fertilizer plant, with a designed production capacity
of 100,000 tons of single super-phosphate, was set up in the public sector
(under the Federal Ministry of Industries) at Kaduna in 1976. Its actual
production has varied between 20,000 tons and 45,000 tons per year due to
technical and managerial constraints. As a result, its contribution to the
national fertilizer requirements of around a million tons has been rather
limited.
1/   Some comparable numbers for the year 1979-80 from other countries
are: Ivory Coast 13.5 kg, Morocco 28.9 kg, Algeria 23.1 kg, Libya 23.5
kg, Liberia 11.3 kg, Israel 206 kg, Bangladesh 45 kg, South Korea 384
kg, Pakistan 52 kg of nutrients per hectare of arable Land. The world
average is 77 kg; for Africa, it is 15.6 kg.
Source: 1980, FAO Fertilizer Year Book.



- 12 -
41e      Nigeria is now planning a major increase in domestic production in
the late 1980s, when a fertilizer complex, the National Fertilizer Company of
Nigeria (NAFCON)--a joint venture of the Federal Government and M.W. Kellogg
Co. of USA--is scheduled to go on stream at Onne, near Port-Harcourt. In the
initial years, NAFCON would be managed by Kellogg. This plant would have a
production capacity of 1,000 tons of urea and 1,500 tons of different grades
of NPK per day, and is expected to contribute more than 60 percent (in case o-r
u-rea 100 percent) to the likely consumption in 1987.  However, when this plan-:>
goes into production, logistical integration of domestic and irnported ferti-
lizer streams and recalculation of costs and subsidies would become an impor-
tant task.  The Bank has been asked to assist in the financing of the proposed
plant; thls request is under consideration.
Procurement and Distribution
42.      In 1976-77, the decentralized system of fertilizer imports was
repiaced by at centralized arrangement under which the full procurement and
distribution cycle was controlled by the Federal Government. This change was
inspired by the Government's desire to gain leverage in the international
market by consolidating the fragmented purchases of individual states and to
properly coordinate the arrival of fertilizer ships to avoid congestion and
delays at Nigerian ports.  The Government also introduced a uniform retail
selling price for each product throughout the country to overcome the problem
of inter-state smuggling caused in the past by differences in retail prices,
In effect, the Government took over the responsibility of funding the cif,
Liandling, and transportation costs of fertilizer to the states, as well as of
sharing the fertilizer subsidy with the states according to an agreed formula
(Federal Government: 50 percent, states: 25 percent, farmers: 25 percent)
with reference to the landed cost of fertilizer at the state capitals 1/. The
above responsibilities, including transport of fertilizers to the states, were
entrusted to a Fertilizer Procurement and Distribution Division (FPDD) created
under the Federal Ministry of Agriculture.
43.      At the state level, fertilizer is generally received by the state
ministry of agriculture which arranges for its storage, internal transpor-
tation, and retail sale through agro-service centers and local government
representatives in non-ADP areas; in ADPs, the commercial units or input
supply companies of the projects sell fertilizers through farm service
centers. The arrangements for monitoring of stocks, deliveries, sales, and
-losses are practically non-existent in non--ADP areas.
/   This arrangement ignored the i-ntra-state storage, transport,
handling, and retailing costs which in effect were an additional burden
on the state governments. Moreover, the uniform retail selling price9
fix.ed by the Federal Government for the whole country, was not related
to costs; it remained unchanged for a number of years, while costs
continued to fluctuate.  In practice, the farmers' share in the farmgate
cost worked out only to about 15 percent.
Despite the official cost-sharing formula, the state governments have
not been able to make any contributions in recent years and all
rertilizer subsidy payments have therefore, in practice, been made by
the Federal Government.



- 13 -
Major Constraints in the Fertilizer Subsector
44.      Funding Constraints.  Although the fertilizer sector is an exclusive
preserve of government, its funding has seldom been commensurate with needs.
Government budgets must provide for all cash flow requirements for fertilizer
imports, handling, transportation, storage, and marketing. In practice, there
has been continual uncertainty about the quantity and timely availability of
funds to pay for the imported fertilizers as well as their distribution and
marketing costs. Lately, the budget cuts have become substantial. The
federal 1983 budget for fertilizers has been cut to N75 million which can
finance the import and distribution of only about 350,000 tons of fertilizers
as compared to actual distribution of over one million tons in 1981 and
639,000 tons in 1982.
45.      Policy Constraints.  Two important policy constraints relate to
pricing and subsidization and fertilizer marketing. With a uniform country-
wide retail selling price, government subsidy amounts to about 85 percent of
total cost and farmers pay only 15 percent. While the effective retail
prices, averaging N42 per ton, have remained unchanged in the last few years,
the Government's fertilizer imports have risen from a mere 50,000 tons in 1976
to one million tons in 1981. The subsidy implications of this quantity have
been such that the fertilizer imports had to be severely cut. The fertilizer
pricing policy has, in fact, become a major impediment to agricultural
development. On the one hand, fertilizer availability has been severely
curtailed, thereby jeopardizing the success of ADPs and other food production
programs; on the other hand, very low fertilizer prices, coupled with limited
supplies, have encouraged fertilizer black marketing at substantially higher
prices. Very low retail prices have also encouraged inefficient use and
possible smuggling across the borders. As to the second constraint, the
present policy of complete government involvement in fertilizer distribution
and marketing has made the system both expensive and inefficient. Apart from
increased efficiencies, the involvement of the private sector and a commercial
approach would relieve the Government of having to budget for total cash flow
needs; only the fertilizer subsidy would have to be provided in government
budgets.
46.      Organization and Management Constraints.  FPDD, which handles
fertilizer importation and distribution to states, does not have the
organizational structure, or the planning system and management methods, to
handle effectively its complex responsibilities arising out of rapidly
increasing demand from the states. FPDD was studied in detail by a committee
appointed by the President of Nigeria in 1981 (Gebenbichie Committee). This
committee reported that FPDD's structure, strength, and skills were
inadequate, and recommended restructuring and strengthening.
47.      The inadequacies of FPDD have increased costs at different stages of
the fertilizer marketing chain. Poor knowledge about carry-over stocks in
different states, combined with unplanned despatches to various destinations
from the ports, have increased the states' inventory management problems,
leading to waste and avoidable losses. FPDD's transportation of fertilizers
from five ports to 19 states has been predominantly by road, whereas a
judicious multi-modal mix involving road, rail, and inland waterways could
have resulted in considerable savings. The entire operation is vast and



- 14
complex, and only a carefully drawn up, coordinated import-supply plan, which
takes note of monthly product requirements of different states, can bring
about a substantial reduction of costs.
48.      Distribution problems are further compounded at the state and farm
level because of poor handling by state and local government functionaries.
State retailing costs range between N35 to N69 per ton, when a significantly
smaller distribution margin to the private sector could have done the job more
efficiently.
PART IV - THE LOAN
49.      The proposed loan was appraised by a mission which visited Nigeria in
March - April 1983. This mission was preceded by three missions to discuss in
detail Government's fertilizer policies and programs. Senior Federal
Government officials also visited Washington in December 1982 and April
1983. These discussions have contributed to important policy decisions by the
Government in the fertilizer subsector. Negotiations were held at the Bank in
June 1983; the Nigerian delegation was led by Dr. R. 0. Mowoe of the Federal
Ministry of Finance.  Further information on the Loan is given in Annexes III
and IV.
Loan Objectives
50.      The Loan has three major objectives.  First, to ensure the adequate
and timely supply of fertilizer to all Bank-assisted ADPs and other agri-
cultural areas for the 1984 and 1985 crop years at a time of acute foreign
exchange constraints (para. 16). Second, to assist the Federal Government in
restructuring its fertilizer policy, including pricing, subsidization,
procurement, and marketing, to make it an efficient and effective instrument
of agricultural development. And third, to ensure additional Federal
Government support to states for funding ongoing Bank-assisted ADPs through
implementation of the development loan stock scheme (para. 28).
Loan Description and Administration
51.      The Loan would assist in the financing of about 2.0 million tons of
fertilizer imports required by Nigerian farmers for the 1984 and 1985 crop
years. Since expenditure on fertilizer imports is incurred several months
before its actual use, foreign exchange expenditures would begin in November
1983 for the crop year 1984 and in November 1984 for the crop year 1985.
Apart from part of the foreign exchanige cost of fertilizers, the Loan would
also finance the cost of studies to develop a fertilizer policy framework, the
cost of communication equipment (tele!x and/or radio), and the domestic and
overseas training of key FPDD personnel.
52.      The demand for fertilizer is estimated at 895,000 tons (321,200
nutrient tons) and 1,272,000 tons (459,205 nutrient tons) in 1984 and 1985,
respectively; the indigenous production would contribute 60,000 tons of single
superphosphate (10,800 tons of nutrients) in each of these years, and the
balance would therefore have to be imported. The 1985 requirements include a
small buffer of nearly 200,000 tons. These projections, though 10 percent
lower than the Plan estimates in nutrient terms (para. 38), are considered
realistic in view of the present level of fertilizer use and the projected



- 15 -
price increases. The nutrient balance (N:P:K ratio of 3:2:1) proposed for
1984 and 1985 is agronomically appropriate, and consistent with past trends.
53.      The Director of FPDD would be responsible for administering and
monitoring the program. To this end, FPDD has been strengthened with three
internationally-recruited experts in the fields of procurement, marketing and
logistics, and finance and accounts, who are being financed under ATAP (Loan
No. 2029-UNI). Taking into account the timing of fertilizer requirements in
different agro-ecological zones, the capacity of ports and the transportation
system to handle fertilizers, and also the relative inaccessibility of several
areas during the rainy season, FPDD has planned the arrival of the fertilizer
shipments between November 1983 to March 1984 for the 1984 crop season. This
schedule would ensure timely availability of fertilizer to farmers, which is
an important objective of Bank assistance. NAFCON would assume responsibility
for fertilizer procurement and distribution from the 1985 crop season
(para. 63).
54.      The Loan would also finance the following studies to be completed by
June 1984, so that their recommendations could be considered in determining
the pricing and marketing arrangements for the 1985 crop season:
i)   fertilizer transportation and storage optimization study;
ii)   credit plan for short-term crop production loans to farmers
and distribution credit for NAFCON, wholesalers, and retailers
of fertilizers; and
iii)   Legal and regulatory framework for fertilizer subsector e.g.
fertilizer specifications, packaging, pricing, quality
control, and registration of dealers.
The terms of reference of these studies were agreed with the Federal
Government during negotiations.
55.      The Federal Government would maintain a separate budget category for
fertilizer subsidies to enable a clear assessment of subsidy levels (Section
3.06 of the Loan Agreement).
Cost and Financing
56.      The total cost of fertilizer imports and internal distribution is
estimated at US$833 million (N555 million) of which the foreign exchange
component would amount to US$418 million (N279 million) or about 50 percent.
A breakdown of cost by major categories is given in the Loan Summary and in
Annex IV (tables 1-4). Allowance has been made for price contingencies for
fertilizer imports equal to 7.5 percent for the 1984 crop year and 12 percent



- 16 -
for the 1985 crop year as well as for local costs estimated at 7.5 percent for
the 1984 crop year and 13 percent for the 1985 crop year. 1/
57.      The proposed loan of US$250 million (N167 million) would finance 30
percent of total costs (60 percent of the cif cost of fertilizer imports, and
100 percent of the cost of studies, foreign training, and communication
equipment for FPDD and the front-end fee).  The loan would be divided into tc
tranches reflecting the two crop years. The first tranche would not exceed
US$121.2 million (fertilizer purchases of about: US$119 million and other items
of about US$2 million); the second tranche of US$128.8 million for the 1985
crop year would be applied solely to the purchase of fertilizers. The
Nigerian share would amount to US$582.4 million, or 70 percent of total costs
(Loan Summary and Annex IV, tables 1 and 2). This comprises 40 percent of the
foreign exchange cost of fertilizer and 100 percent of the domestic cost.  The
program implies Federal Government contributions of N32 million (foreign
exchange N15.8 million) in Nigerian fiscal year 1983, N138.5 million (N49.6
million) in 1984, and N150.4 million (N46.8 million) in 1985.  It was agreed
during negotiations that the Federal Government would (i) import about 835,000
tons of fertilizer for 1984 and about 1,212,000 tons for 1985 2/; (ii) make
monthly deposits of their share of foreign exchange costs in a designated bank
account abroad in accordance with ELn agreed schedule of payments; (iii) ensure
satisfactory arrangements for the full funding of foreign exchange and local
costs of the program. These would, inter alia, enable NAFCON to meet its
total cash flow needs under the program. The latter point would be a
condition of disbursement of the second tranche of loan (Sections 3.07 and
Schedule 1, para. 4 of the Loan Agreement), and the first monthly payment of
US$4.8 million by the Federal Government into its designated bank account
abroad would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan (Section 6.01 of the
Loan Agreement).
Policy Environment and Organizational Restructuring
58.      In the context of discussions leading up to the proposed Loan , the
Federal Government has recently taken a number of decisions to modify its
policies in the fertilizer subsector, including: (a) to significantly reduce
subsidies over the next 5 years; (b) to transfer the responsibility for the
importation and distribution of fertilizer from FPDD to NAFCON; (c) to
strengthen the staffing of FPDD to improve the cost-effectiveness of its 1984
operations; (d) to commercialize fertilizer operations and retail business;
and (e) to establish a National Fertilizer Technical Committee to guide and
coordinate fertilizer sector programs and policies.
1/   Since fertilizer import contracts are expected to be signed around
October 1983 for the 1984 crop year, price contingencies for six months
over base costs as of April 1983 have been assumed. Import contracts
for the 1985 crop year are expected to be signed in September-October
1984; therefore, price contingencies for one year over base costs as of
October 1984 have been assumed.
2/   The balance 60,000 tons (10,800 nutrient tons) is expected to come
from the domestic plant in each of these two years.



- 17 -
59.      During negotiations, the Federal Government has agreed to at least
double the retail price of each fertilizer product for the 1984 crop year and
reduce fertilizer subsidies to no more than 50 percent of total cost for the
1985 crop year and to 25 percent by the 1988 crop year (Section 3.05 (a) of
the Loan Agreement). This would result in a reduction in subsidies in 1984 of
about N38 million and in 1985 of about N108 million (Annex IV, table 6). The
announcement of the revised prices, which would be uniform for the whole
country (Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement), would normally take place in
early November, when the fertilizer sale season is over.  However, this would
be difficult in 1983 as, following the general election, the new Government
would only be in position at that time. It has therefore been agreed that the
new prices will be announced no later than January 1, 1984. Agreement on the
prices for the 1985 crop year would be a condition of disbursement of the
second tranche of the Loan (Section 3.05 (b) and Schedule 1, para 4 of the
Loan Agreement).
60.      While the Federal Government has agreed to raise fertilizer prices
for the 1985 crop season to reduce the subsidy level to no more than 50
percent, the final price would be determined in late-1984 on the basis of a
joint review by Government and the Bank of the effects of the 1984 price
increase. This review would take into account fertilizer offtake information
for 1984, as reported by the states, and APMEPU's evaluation of the effect of
the fertilizer price increase on demand through its modified agronomic survey
for Bank-assisted ADPs (Section 3.05 (c) of the Loan Agreement).
61.      The proposed increases in fertilizer prices in 1983 and 1984 are not
likely to unduly affect the growth in fertilizer consumption because, first,
the benefit-cost ratio of fertilizer use will still be favorable, and second,
the improved and timely fertilizer availability under the new arrangements
will meet hitherto unsatisfied demand. However, the situation would be
monitored and each announcement of price increase would be preceded by a
review of the effect of earlier price increases on demand.
62.      The total fertilizer subsidy is also expected to be reduced through
the implementation of several other cost reduction measures such as fertilizer
purchases through international competitive bidding, greater use of high-
analysis fertilizers, more economical inter-modal transportation mix, improved
inventory management, and retailing through private trade channels. The
savings from international bidding procedures have been taken into account in
preparing the cost estimates; other savings are expected to accrue over the
period of the loan, particularly for the crop year 1985, following the imple-
mentation of the recommendations of the studies financed under the Loan
Agreement between the Federal Government and the Bank on the package of
corrective measures would be a condition of disbursement of the second tranche
of the Loan (Section 3.11 (b) and Schedule 1, para. 4 of the Loan Agreement).
63.      The Federal Government's decision on the commercialization of
fertilizer operations is of major importance. Fertilizer importation,
distribution, and marketing is now proposed to be entrusted to the newly
established commercially-operated NAFCON. The company is presently engaged,
inter alia, in recruiting staff for its marketing operations which, prior to
its new factory coming on stream in the late eighties, would assume respon-
sibility for importing and distributing fertilizers. This is planned for the
second half of 1984, by which time a network of retailers would have been



- 18 -
appointed, in time for the 1985 season. In the meantime, for the crop year
1984, the work of fertilizer importation and distribution will continue to be
the responsibility of FPDD. Although FPDD has recently been strengthened
th-rough the recruitment of three foreign specialists (para. 53), it will be
further strengthened at the middle management level with eight new, local
appointments (market intelligence, port operations, fertilizer distribution,
-rail and road movement  accounts, administration, and law) by September 30,
1983 (Section 3.10 (a) of the Loan Agreement).  These arrangements, comblnledt
with procurement under international competitive bidding procedures, would
constitute the first major step in developing an efficient and cost-effective
fertilizer import and distribution system at the national level. At the state
level, no significant improvement in the handling and retailing of fertilizer
is expected in the first year.  However, one important step towards the
commercialization of the process would be that during 1984 the agricultural
input supply companies or other organizations entrusted with the task of
distributing and retailing fertilizers in the states would have to make
pa,vment to the Federal Government wi,ithin sixty days of the receipt of ferti-
lizers of at least the retail price less the agreed in-state distribution
costs 'Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement).
64,      NAFCON has a broad directive to follow the recommendations of IFDC's
Fertilizer Marketing Study 1/ in developing organizational and mnarketing
plans.  The IFDC has proposed the division of the country in 14 distribution
zones with storage and transshipment facilities, 100 sales territories, and
the appointment and training of about 30 retailers for each sales territory.
NAFCON would continue to use the infrastructure of farm service centers in
ADPs to retail fertilizers which woluld enable NAFCON to concentrate initially
on the creation of a retail network in non-ADP areas where the marketing
system is weak.  The study also proposes criteria for the selection of
retailers, and fertilizer promotion through a research and demonstration
program, soil testing, organization of farnmer field days, advertising,
exhibitions, and radio programs. A detailed marketing and funding plan for
the 1985 crop season and a timetable for implementation will be prepared by
NAFCON by June 1984, and agreement between the Goveernment and the Bank on the
preparation of the plan and the timetable for implementation would be a
condition for the release of the second tranche of the proposed ILoan (Section
3.11 (a) and Schedule 1, para. 4 of the Loan Agreemert).
65.      The IFDC study visualizes product ownership by NAFCON to the point of
retail sale.  Short-term credit would be required by retailers, commercial
units of ADPs, input supply companies, and NAFCON to finance stocks. The
proposed credit study (para. 54) would address how these needs should be met.
66.      After the transfer of the responsibility for fertilizer importation
and distribution to NAFCON, FPDD would be restructured to perform non-
commercial tasks such as assisting the Federal Government in (i) studying
policy issues, e.g., pricing and subsidy, buffer stocks, marketing; (ii)
prepariag 5-year plans for fertilizer consumption and promotion and deciding
upon annual consumption targets in consultation wiLth the Green Revolution
.1   Study by International Fertilizer Development Center (Muscle
Shoals, USA) for the Federal Ministry of Industries in 1980.



- 19 -
Council, NAFCON, and the states; (iii) monitoring fertilizer availability
throughout the country; and (iv) creating and enforcing a legal base for
fertilizer production, marketing, pricing, and quality control. FPDD would
also administer fertilizer subsidy programs and budgets, and monitor the world
fertilizer situation, policies, and trends. These important tasks have
hitherto been overshadowed by the priority given to handling the importation
and transportation of fertilizers.
Procurement and Disbursement
67.      Contracts for fertilizer imports would be provided through inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Equipment,
amounting to less than US$0.3 million, would be procured on the basis of local
competitive bidding following procedures acceptable to the Bank. The services
of consultants, estimated at about US$1.1 million, would be obtained on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, and training, both local and overseas,
costing not more than US$0.3 million, would be arranged in consultation with
the Bank.
68.      Disbursement of the Bank loan would take place in FY84 and FY85
(Annex IV, Table 5). Disbursement would be made against standard
documentation on the basis of 75 percent and 50 percent of the cif cost of
fertilizers respectively for 1984 and 1985 crop years and 100 percent of the
cost of studies, technical assistance, training, and equipment. Disbursement
conditions of the Loan are detailed in para. 73.
Accounts and Audits
69.      The accounts and the accounting system of FPDD need strengthening.
It would be a primary task of the internationally recruited financial
specialists to do this. The Federal Government would require to keep
financial records in accordance with sound accounting practices to reflect the
operations and financial position of FPDD and NAFCON. Further, the Federal
Government would have these accounts audited annually by independent external
auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Justification and Risks
70.      The Loan would assist the Federal Government in meeting the demand
for fertilizers at a time of acute foreign exchange constraints. Investment
in fertilizer shows a high return on investment. It is estimated that it
would result in an estimated incremental production of 2 million tons of grain
equivalents (mtge) in 1984 and 2.3 mtge in 1985. Even at wholly unsubsidized
fertilizer prices, the economic benefit-cost ratio remains above 2, the
accepted minimum norm for attracting fertilizer use. Since fertilizer use is
neutral to scale, and since over 90 percent of Nigerian farmers are small-
holders, the distribution of benefits of fertilizer use would be equitable.
71.      The loan would also allow the Federal Government to provide, although
indirectly, additional funding to the ongoing Bank assisted ADPs (para. 28),
thereby reducing the states' share to 20 percent of total project cost. In
view of the importance of this issue, the release of the second tranche of the
Loan will be subject to the Bank's receiving adequate assurances from the



- 20 -
Federal Government on the funding of the ADPs (Schedule 1, para. 4 of the Loan
Agreement).
72.      The program does, however, present certain risks.  First, FPDD may
not be adequately staffed and equipped to handle the 1984 crop program with
consequent delays and wastage. To reduce this risk, the FPDD is being
strengthened by additional international and locally recruited staff, and
physical progress will be closely monitored.  Second, there is a risk that,
despite the required marketing plan, NAFCON will not be ready to assume
responsibility for fertilizer procurement and distribution in time for the
1985 crop year. In such circumstances, the Bank would have to consider
whether alternative and satisfactory arrangements could be made and which,
inter alia, would not prevent the release of the second tranche. Third,
Government may, in the event, be unable to provide its share of the foreign
exchange fundls and the required local currency. The agreement provides that
the Bank and Nigeria will jointly disburse against fertilizer deliveries on a
pro-rata basis which should provide a systematic arrangement or an early
warning of such difficulties.  If this were to be a local currency shortfall,
thus inhibiting internal distributi'on, the Bank would have no option but to
withhold the release of the second tranche funds. Fourth, the projected
increase in fertilizer prices may lead to an undesirable drop in demand,
thereby making it difficult to realize the national food production targets.
This risk would be taken care of by the system of guaranteed minimum prices
annually fixed by the Federal Government; additionally, the Loan provides for
an annual review of the effects of earlier price increases (para. 60).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
73.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria and
the Bank and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the Loan are listed in
Section III of Annex III. These include the first monthly payment of US$4.8
million by the Federal Government into its designated bank account abroad as a
condition of effectiveness and the following conditions of disbursement:
(i)    Bank disbursements would not exceed US$40 million or extend
beyond January 1, 1984 (whichever is the earlier) in the
circumstances where the Federal Government had not made public
the prices applying to the 1984 season;
(ii)   Limitation of Bank dlisbursement to an aggregate amount of
US$121.2 million unless:
(a)     NAFCON had prepared a satisfactory detailed marketing
and funding plan, and agreed with a timetable for its
implementation;
(b)     the Bank and the Federal Government had agreed on
retail prices for each type of fertilizer for the 1985
crop year, and the Federal Government haci made this
public;



- 21 -
(c)     the Bank and the Federal Government had agreed on a
package of measures to be used to reduce fertilizer
subsidies;
(d)     the Federal Government had made satisfactory
arrangements for the full funding of the foreign
exchange and local costs of the fertilizer program;
and
(e)     the Federal Government had made satisfactory
arrangements for the adequate funding of ADPs.
74.      I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
August 24, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
NIGERIA                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NIGERIA                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) ja
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/b          /b  RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCQME
1960~-      1970-  ESTIMATR--        AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA 6 M7D EAST
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM)
TOTAL                                 923.8       923.8        923.8
AGRICULTURAL                         412.8        4 9 7.4      512.9
GSP PRR CAPITA (0IS$)                    200.0       330.0        870.0              1L47.9                    1340.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        29.0         51.0        169.0               724.2                     810.4
POPULATION AND vPTAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   51598.0       66182.0     87603.0
URBAI POPULATION (I CF TOTAL)         13.1         16.4        20.9                28.5                       47.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                              169.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                623.4
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                 2140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         55.9         71.6         91.7                56.5                      36.0
PER SQ. 1KM. AGRI. LANO            125.0        133.0       165.2               131.8                      449.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 YRS                           45.4         46.6        47.7                 45.9                      43.9
15-64 YRS                           52.3         51.0        49.9                51.2                       53.8
65 AND ABOVE                         2.3          2.4         2.4                 2.8                        3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                2.4          2.5          2.5                 2.8                       2.9
URBAN                                4.7          4.7         4.8                  5.3                       4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          52.0         50.7         49.6                47.6                      42.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)          25.3         20.8         16.6                15.2                      12.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.4          3.4         3.4                  3.2                       3.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANINUAL (THOUS)             ..         7.6        33.2/c
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        100.0        102.0        92.0                95.7                       97.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (7 OF REQUIREMENTS)        83.0         82.0        91.0                97.1                      102.3
FROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            45.0         44.0        49.0                56.0                       72.0
OF WHICh ANDIAL AND PFLSE          10.0         10.0        11.0/d              17.2                       17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE           42.4         35.0        27.8                23.6                       15.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         38.7         43.7         49.1                51.9                      57.2
INFANT MORT. RAIE (PER THOUS)        183.4        158.0       133.0               117.6                      104.2
ACCESS TO SA.FE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..           ..               25.4                       59.3
URBAN                                 ..           ..           ..               70.5                       84.9
RURAL                                  .                                         12.3                       37.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..            .
POPULATION PER PHYSSCIGN           73710.0      24670.0     12550.0             12181.6                     3536.0
POP. FER NURSING PERSON             4040.0fe    5071.0       3010.0              2292.0                     1820.7
POP. PER HOSPITAI. BED
TOTAL                             3020.0/h    2220.0       1370.0/f            1075.4                      643.3
URBAN                              430.07e      490.0       370.07              402.3                      545.0
RURAL                            25630.0/e   18490.0       5490.0/f            3926.7                     2462.0
ADMISSIONS PER H8)SPITAL BED             ..          ..           ..                  ..                      26.4
NOOSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..           ..           ..                  .
URBAN                                             4.7/S         ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..           ..
URBAN                                3.0          2.2/g        ..                   .
RURAL
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..            .           ..                 ..                       46.2
URBAN                               81.3         42.4/g         ..                  ..                      77. 6
RURAL                                  .     .      .           ..                 ..                       16.1



- 23 A- 
-23-                              ~~~~ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
SIGERIA                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
N LGERIA                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WtIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOdST RiECENT ESTIiMATE) /b
1960/A       197D~jb  RECENT  lb MIDDLE INCOMJE                    MIDDLE INCOftE
0-  ESTIMIATE-        AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSIED ENROLLAENT VTIUOS
PRIARY;   TOTAL                      36.0         37.0         98.U                 97.2                       o9.6
NALE                      46.0         47.0           ..                103.1                      104.8
PFE'MALE                  27.0         27.0           ..                 88.5                       72.4
SECONDARY: TOTAL                       4.0          4.0         16.0                 17.2                       41.7
MTALE                      6.0          6.0           ..                 23.5                       52.8
FEtlALE                    1.0          3.0           ..                 14.2                       31.2
VOCATIONAL (I OF SECONDARY)              4.8          8.5          3.1/i                5.2                       10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRItlARY                              30.0         34.0           ..                 42.9                       31.9
SECONDARY                             19.0         21.0           ..                23.7                        23.3
ADULT LITEKACY RATE (N)                 15.4/e         ..         34.0                 37.1                       43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/TdOUSAND POP              0.6          0.9          1.4/i               18.8                       18.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/TIOUSAND POP             2.6         19.3         66.1                 97.8                      138.1
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                0.0          1.1          5.3                 18.6                       45.6
UEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTERCSr") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                 5.5          4.8          6.9/f              1.2                        31.0
CINEMA, AANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         ..           ..          0.4                  o.6                        1.7
LABOR FORCE
rOlAL LABOR FURCE (THOUS)           21788.0      25992.0       31635.0
FEMuALL (PEKCENi)                     41.3         40.6         39.8                 36.1                       10.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 71.0         62.0         54.0                 56.8                       42.5
INJOUSIRY (PERCENT)                   10.0         14.0         19.0                17.5                        27.8
PARIICIPATUIO RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42.2         39.3         36.1                 37.0                       25.6
MALE                                  50.3         47.3         44.0                 47-1                       45.4
FEt'ALE                               34.4         31.5         28.4                 27.0                        5.6
ECONOHIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1          1.2          1.4                  1.3                        1.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HlIGHEST 5% OF lOUSEHOLDS              ..
HlUHISsST 20% OF HOUSEHlOLDS                                                 ..
LOWEST 207 OF HOUSEtHOLDS               ..
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        696.0/k             534.2                       276.1
RURAL                                   ..           ..        341.0)/k            255.9                       177.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY ItiCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAP1TA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        621.0/k             491.5                       400.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..        207.o07k            18.1                        293.3
ESTIMtATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (N)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                   ..                       22.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..           ..                   ..                       30.8
.iOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961;  Data for 1970  between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1974; /d 1977; /e 1962; /f 1976; /g 1972; /h Including ex-North Cameroon under British administration; /i Certain
fields of study previously classified under other second level education of vocational or technical nature are now
reported under general education; /j 1978; /k 1982.
May 1983



-24 -                                                             AN'NEX I
Page 3 of 5
IIEPINITIONS OP SOCIAL 1iNDIfAT81
Nose I   Although the data at  draw  fro- ore  gee"lyjde                   Itens aIt'll   salean  reIable, ns  Ihudas   ontd  thatshey waytohroercnuy
_op-rble becaus  of the 1aco of a-tadardoed def..t-son   -d c-ncpta use  by dfentcases                           coltIgtedar.-   The dat  ar            -ntehel-et  uo'Lil to
deocribe ardent If sagnlt,cdo  i hd mus  te-ndo. end                   -trtrotcosle sajor diff-o-tne
The refornce geouo ars (I  the eas  ocucsry  roup of  he subjet totrrrya-d 12) A tuergetup ath  --soehat higher a-erge incom   shn   t  co-to  group of the
eabi ott  nuntry (ecept fot'gdgh Inc-oe" hIthoper net   seocyohre ''bIddo  Itoosshoreir aIlla.and-rIddle fan" Is chsen becaue of es-ogor soco-cfl--ra
atltrs). In he  -sfe.e..e gr..up duto t      - ergeu oepopulecti  _ugtdalhel   slefroch Ind ,icato  and sb.- only whet -ejoely of the  tsohcI
gru   asdt  frIatidnti.Son   h  cnsg  o   ontisuno   heIdctosdpsd   n  h   nlliteyo  an   n  i   o   nioelcuInIoth
Otetlsd  s  eltig  ooage  f  nebnicronnnuho.   hes oZ.gs  eral y uefu  Inp.d tcpahm  thivlueo   n   ncso   oasa   o                                        h   onr   o
reterasne groups.l   --l  I   -Pi,lh
Otnu  -  otalsur aceaea   coprsigot  area and inlan    aes;18,phsco    alIeed ePm   mdiascoltenertyec.
an0   d lilO dao.-eual.                                                                                    erlttn    ero-ypaIlatci-             le   ymobyo   euit
Iehas, and rural2) dIolde  byebele espesIoIeero  heyto   -nde
lNP PER CAPITA (All)   GNlP per -ale  rn ou o  as curnen  -oeh- Prto-r                                 a-eaIr It publIc en  peluabe genres  and oe.a.ne   nos,.l and
nelculched by __ano   --nticn method an  laI  bath mIss (1971-61 hostel;                             nohehbituttt  cetrs,ioposar   srtilh-Iipemnety  -rf fed
~1960  1970, an.d 19g; daaIya-oe   n   hylts    oa    hac  p-ood ing pr-inpallyc oml                                                                                                a
carsaerwooIncude.   Or-l hseos,aene,Iecod  heath und
ttffto lOtiatiPItyt fIb CafIlo - denual ayperenr coesovyrlon ct reomertoel. yedicid.trussestnotipersenent ly etafted by I               phyeitcst (hnb byba a A`el
anI goheie  trIcle y)  nklgae                    ol  nlaetprcyt                                      pen-lde   limited rung  of medical tolnls   for et-teoa   P.rp,e
1960, 1971, and 1980 date.I. Iea  hoep,lauls Inlude WliCeprinlalp1/genorl  bapaa  sd rura
haybao   oa  ne  -ara  hoapisls an  wedic-l ond eat-tnty coner.
POPULATION all VITAL. STATISTICS                                                                       Spenialloed hspitssle are Inclded only und-rtrl
TotaEl PopltinMid--yaaj?h-nd )                 Is  f J.y  1; 1960, 1970, and 198f1                Audwiselon   e             Bee elld - Treel numbe  of adeloi-On  boor1 dia-hag-
date.                                                                                              frm  opias  iided by the  -bee  of teds.
UrenpoaltrnI erenIf oti      oi  eI  -r1att   total pepol.atto;
amngcunrIs    i, 1~910, end 1991 dat.                                                  anOra...  lies o f  i-usholdhIpro.   e  hoahll     ou    ra,ad rorI
Ponolatien Projecetoor                                                     -~~~ h- iNuosn     Inset f a glnop of ted idulstof.rlInIng qua-ot-
Pooain  nya  loll  C- lnr-n  ypulel po- tte-    ae  ard on ....                          -nd their wai  m-els    A b-rd-e - on ldgon sa rmy   no  h  Inlddin
nna  pptntnb  al -m50ad -Isheir  _-elo  edfe Ilt            y                          she h-haeld fur orutir   a  Porpotot
rae.P-oj-ntin yaa Inr   for  _on  I", cato  cnopriss of chre                              iIrgnwa   f person  roe rostna...f,y,ya    srtsnse
Iol  ass uItS IIf~ -p-yscsoy at bhtrhIcrain               iteh c-st-y'spro   esn    e   oei   b   ra,adrtlsrye   ocn
copesteewsissl  so  fnas hleonennnoy  twblttt  en77 hdasit1s  erpetisly    2te hos  onadoto-prmaen d                                    rocn, e.oI
years.  Telrecr   o   enstyrt   lohn   he   eoecr  ldpes
asaoin  delin  Inferllly acnrlngso  enss lnolaodpea  failygucss  o fctrolt  (prcetio  dellias)-Itna77uran,ondnatl-
P'n...insroo e- motait  enten l     nsd  fu  prn- cto  purposes.                                nf-total, ura,P        drro-ellrro  esIsy
ti bi-i-ary peusitn-loans ft Iceay ptpudotfos thr   oongot
docinsohsspacrac   lnenlntieneyodntcIece abt                                                     tlanacbnltnIlmaesntso--h-snntl.uuu                               -leol
eahgeraP.f......elslswcl. Thmsnseyartssnflaganteylayeolsegotgsfrssso
pooototvaato   iasdo  tehel   f  h   yotcacaete-prsryoto"atieoalla1 omol   erae  cidrnaedbI
str   fth   nuanini  rofa  10,ad  h   ae  fdcin   fyar   o   djse   ordSfrrsivnh   frItrhdtatt   s
ferilIty rat ...ylca....          ool                           tI                           DCTONurnsstonerundthnerlmnt ayncd10pret
he or  - tta loerrplro   orard-  h   erwe   ttoaysnc   orppl   e   oo   labv   h   iftu   colo
only  111,  970end193  daa.                                                          ocetovl erolmen  (prcettohseo-dry)-foan-,a_lnohtuion
renla 'tionIot   as0ccen  -tnl-gno   rw  P."otes  ' atsoa-od-p                                                `me  and h sen --ee  leesd-nld- byneh            --d ee n  ih0 th-h-
pea_  nnoio   90,-90,ad 1981~ do_a,_COllIffPt_
Cross  iseendttinn   an lneott ths   cfIPeu.toeseuews 0112one  InmlIfnny....io.
fIsllny   rae;  1960ie-or  nsoeee1970n191  17d,t,hoacannceert  oli   ernhuun   f                                                                              -epltio  ro-dt  t
tIS.I.tliIo60ed1r70sloere In8countrIes-end iniyas-e ttY drpg,s-rf Iondofyr_d__
ofl hle-cnrl  eiesodt  u  icso  norlonl hmll  plnIng                                               codsn-r-e-yaboliahed-Isc-walng
pengrw.                                                                               T  Renlner  lee  thosandyntsatl-)t- OIroe-nes lo   trodos  -o
Pamllf Plunnlas-iaars 0 yrrosnt of earned o'ocenl - Percent wgs of carried       genseal pntltc  yee thootand prpolvttnn; senlu doe unlIcensed  00 rertlorno AlIl
onaotnf_bil6-hs             960n 70g (l-Crte)cctw1n9ctnncrccsPuin- rrren"                                        n   rroeuuregernln1-d  aonn'nllc
al    arId   nrnt  suruoguc.sopprfrultlnprtovodcpltln -ln    h    rrg
foolOhi NvnInfR                                                                                cecuatfn c dnll  generl Intrn    esopr.dtnd00aprnla
~0~oalpondonion o  stI lc       - onadl 'I,  Pnoolo ottdlodo  mes  and                        enb-'al"  fe  apas  tbstfu    `tsa  ek
Ptee oP     oiool sr5 rtdcr  rcseaIht  1960611  "    :   -h ~ h--d. 1901  and 1y 6
soperns , wa change  In  _och    -1st spli         I  -wtd   nea  f-7ood  meds               compdaral;16,-       7Aad18   aa
unI'  yedhalhcmtdrgl,rrena   sprmus.ba s9ignbI                                ,                      fiahe   vs      l pecnaeo   wlllhtfea1  93,  90  ad  IfI data.
ag  ad -e disrbn-  e  fp-    uenuo   vAalob-I0  eeet  o  ssf                                  wdscrl(enecl-Lao  frc   o   iin,  ebeoc  ot oPfa.arn
Pe bminthupply ofjl letIs  god        eedy  -  osi  co e  of ponca pia190ed  91  a
neI  oplf    f  odpeIayfe wpl  o   od  sasie  a   hno                                             at toslvtes(eree      nst                  al,nd  eal-at uptinp
sasutesooPI a fo   l  mano lee  -waltshd  byTVbpoid   ormRau                                         nio1f  es  aecspnd  wsea,eaIIan.sma.lao.orea
elbituc g of6- rm-    ftts"eni'e   a  ad1   re   fcba   n                                      ensss  of(P toal   ol--d          eml  peRola-tonT of  Il og-  repetir
pos   sone  n   hchI   emssoldh   nia   roen                 hoe161   90,m    91  me -esesbsd-n1.'sprlc;aic    sA
snwadM-I       lwrthntoe  87   rm   fttl  rti  ad1   rwsdfesiw   g-eesrcuelfroprusle P.ln    leoed
Ida is.                                                                                        IslOtIf lfTOIn-lT-g
cousseles dai  derloed  co   Ifs  ablas;19i0,d  190ov   91  ae                          hostlda
sn biet; 190, 107  and  931 dEs. _  bjhocid hrl _j                                                   ineprtd sthcndroIaano.
-ofsttranfaerrhtunleosdets fof-nt-dder oe dsseanedhe- lcAt                                                             orrrl-nehnlihphontw    -unht-   culi
yen  i  R5te  _huo    In   ute                1960, 1   901  65, tIll 70t,  d-dbt  pnrt  ncm98rt  schrinoud                                          eelbo soc   a i      oll,l_old
--tome   f  sye(ttl   rbn   s .-re, sIcfreasoable--cee  no) -'                safeORFOiRdoCE
aesay ep         )      -elde  treatd   sarface outset at  onrue   bo5l                         Twiimnod beant   rccrc                ....s bol.1191  wen-i- a       noun   uo
ouwnshtI  we  uhmuta   emyennwIoobcw    pigI,sdOrtr   eo   oer    ooeleP                                                               ootti ooNoeawrtcpt
,Pite   wls)a  lew%aesa -    tsroewtiipeea-ot dI  e                                        etoi-tcmaofse  onty   Ubn  ealIsdo_r  io   terua
orbaO  reaa pbil  fonhic  era.   os  uoo   o  sr   ht10nekslnlstho)ueoc  toe highe  coso l-i-lAinubn    u
frma.    oersy.ec"od.r,s  en  sihr  osndl   ccs olhnhsoatdPouaio    enohstuefoen    dnm  hao   .ren ... -. urta
house   loreuc  rnaweanowhloancanunP     dleithth_hoenfo-adirti  ronopplalc..uonrra)h                                                                Ir'holo
ma  Acidsthe  Ioiclo              Ispoalil, 2 with  -i. we ustou  teaarse   , of                                                        Rcobousf-c sod   D hais   gi  tinleIo   ,
homeosocrtcacd unte-ustre  y watos-orne openuw  or sh  ore of  It                           tconomc faulyns end 7reocntons  evonto9c
ptloe  andsila   ....a..asIon,                                                                                                                        a  .



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOKIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1982                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH(%, Constant Prices)
US$ Mln. /Il    S              1975-80                    1981 /2/             1982 /1/
GNP at Market Prices               71,254       100.0               3.5                    -5.1                  -5.3
Gross Domestic Investment          18,387        25.8                1.2                     8.9                 -1.4
Gross National Saving              11,045        15.5              -0.6                   -39.8                 -11.1
Current Account Balance            -7,341       -10.3                -                        -                    -
Exports of Goods,NFS               13,400        18.8               3.6                   -36.8                -18.7
Imports of Goods,NFS               18,973        26.6               6.0                     7.8                -13.6
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1982
Value Added /1/                Labor Force /3/               V.A. PER Worker
US$ Mln.        S                 Hln.          S                 US S          %
Agriculture                        16,088        22.4              19.6          59.8               878          40.0
Industry & Mining                 29,935         41.6               6.2          18.9              4,320        196.9
Services                          25,949         36.1               7.0          21.3              3,707        168.9
Total/Average                 T1,972        100.0              32.8         100.0              2,194        100.0
COVERNMENT FINANCE
_Genera Government  __                                Central Government_
(N M41n.)   X of GDP                                (N Mln.)    % of GDP
1982 /I/ 1982 /1/ 1979-81 /4/                       1982 /1/ 1982 /1/ 1979-81 /4/
Current Receipts                   13,352    27.2    37.2                               7,854    16.0      21.5
Current Expenditure                 9.265    18.9     17.9                              4,866     9.9      10.2
__________ ________            _-           -   -  -                                    -    -     -  -  -   -  -  -   -  
Current Surplus                     4,087     8.3     19.3                              2,988     6.1      11.3
Capital Expenditure                 8,785    17.9    19.1                               7,686    15.7      15.5
External Assistance(net)              ..      ..       .                                  264     0.5       0.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                         1976       1977      1978       1979       1980      1981       1982
(Million N Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                           5,732      7,439     7,873      9,845    14,275    15,640    17,130
Bank Credit to Public Sector(net)                 551      2,309     3,779      3,296     3,421      6,699    10,524
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   2,423      3,465     4,605      5,249     6,940      9,408    11,088
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money & Quasi Money as S of GDP                  20.7       22.9      23.1       24.3      30.2       32.9       35.0
General Price Index(1975=100)                   123.9      143.0     166.7      186.3     204.9      247.5     266.5
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                              21.7       15.4      16.6       11.8       10.0      20.8        7.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector                        ..     319.1      63.7      -12.8       3.8       95.8       57.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector                    34.8       43.0      32.9       14.0      32.2       35.6       17.9
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__---
Note:  All conversicns to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during period
covered.
/1/ Staff estimates. /2/ Offioial estimates. /4/ Provisional.
/3/ The data is derived from planning documents and refers to the number of 'gainfully employed'.*
Not Available.



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                           MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979-1981) /4/
1980 /1/  1981 /2/  1982 /3/                                 US$ Mln.          S
-(Mill.ons US S)
Exports of Goods,NFS                  24,758    17,872    13,400              Crude Oil                18,271       95.7
Imports of Goods,NFS                  20,723    22,438    18,973              Cocoa Products              476        2.5
_________________-__                  ------    ------    ------              Palm Products                19        0.1
Resource Gap(Deficit   -)              4,035    -4,566    -5,573              Tin                          18        0.1
Other Commodities           298        1.6
Interest Payments (net)                  370        702      -649                                      ------      -----
Other Factor Payments (net)             -876    -1,124        -746                       Total         19,082      100.0
Net Transfers                           -576       -582      -373
-------------                         ------    ------    ------             :EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1982 /5/
Balance on Current Account             2,953    -5,570    -7,341              -------------------------------------
Direct Foreign Investment                340         29        358                                               USS Mln.
Net Official MLT Borrowing               997        784        732            Public Debt, incl. Undisbursed   14,697
Disbursement                         1,138      1,367     1,209             Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Amortization                         -141       -583       -477                                                 ------
Other MLT (net)                           81        -39         26            Total Outstanding & i)isbursed       6,085
Other Capital (net)                      478        -38      4,490 /7/
Errors and Omissions                    -162     -1506       -513
DEBT SERVICE RATIO For 1982 /6/
Change in Reserves                                                            -------------------------------
Increase (-)                        4,687    -6,340    -2,248                                                       5
Net Reserves (end year)               10,235      3,895      1,647            Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed          9.7
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                           ---
Imports                                                                    Total Outstanding & Disbursed
of which: Petroleum                 402        480        450
Exports
of which: Petroleum              22,408    16,748    12,751              IBRD/IDA LENDING (MAY 31,1983 ) (Millions $)
RATE OF EXCHANGE
~---------------                                                                                                   IBRD        IDA
1977: N1.00 = US$1.55                                                                                              ----        ---
1978: N1.00 = US$1.57                                                        Outstanding & Disbursed               738.7       36.7
1979: N1.00 = US$1.66                                                         Undisbursed                          999.1        -
1980: N1.00 = US$1.83                                                                                            -------       ----
1981: N1 00 = US$1.63                                                        Outstanding incl. Undisbursed   1,737.8           36.7
1982: N1.00 = US$1.49
/1/ Provisional. /2/ Official estimates. /3/ Staff etimates.
/4/ Official estimates for 1980 and 1981.
/5/ Excluding short-term loans.
/6/ Ratio of MLT debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
/7/ Includes commercial borrowing and trade arrears.
/8/ AS of April 1983.
Not A"-ilable.



- 27 -
Page 1 of7
TIlE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BlANK C_OUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
(As of June 30. 1983)
Loan or                                                                       USS Million
Credit                                                                Amount (less cancellation)
Number      Year       Borrower    Purpose                           Banlk       IDA      Undisbursed
Twenty one loans and two credits fully disbursed                   575.5        35.3
929      1973       Nigeria      Education                         54.0                    19.1
1045      1974       Nigeria      Cocoa Development                 20.0                     0.6
1091      1975       Nigeria      Livestock                         21.0                     3.5
1103      1975       Nigeria      Rice Development                   17.5                    2.7
1183      1975       Nigeria      M.W. State Oil Palm                13.0                    0.2
1191      1976       Nigeria      E.C. State Oil-Palm               19.0                    11.2
1454      1977       Nigeria      Agric. Dev. Lefia                  27.0                    0.5
1455      1977       Nigeria      Agric. Dev. Ayangba               35.0                     0.4
1591      1978       Nigeria      Nuc. Est. Smallholder Oil         30.0                     9.9
1597      1978       NIDB         Industrial Development            60.0                    31.9
1667      1979       Nigeria      Agric. Dev. Bida                  23.0                     7.8
1668      1979       Nigeria      Agric. Dev. Ilorin                27.0                    14.3
1679      1979       Nigeria      Forestry                          31.0                    12.8
1711      1979       Nigeria      Water Supply - Kaduna             92.0                    80.6
1719      1979       Nigeria      Agric. & Rural Mgmt. Inst.          9.0                    7.0
1766      1980       NEPA         Power Lagos                      100.0                    83.8
1767       1980      Nigeria       Urban Development - Bauchi        17.8                   12.7
1838      1980       Nigeria      Agric. Dev. - Oyo-North           28.0                    26.6
1854      1980       Nigeria      Agric. Dev. - Ekiti-Akoko         32.5                    26.4
1883      198O       Nigeria      Roads                            108.0                    67.5
i981      1981       Nigeria      Agric. Dev. - Bauchi             132.0                    93.1
1982      1981       Nigeria      Agric. Dev. - Kano               142.0                   120.4
2029      1981       Nigeria      Tech. Assistance-Agric.            47.0                   41.4
2036      1982       Nigeria      Water Supply - Anambra            67.0                    61.8
2085      1982       NEPA         Power - Distribution             100.0                    98.8
2185       1982      Nigeria      Agric. Dev. - Sokoto             147.0                   143.0
2299       1983      NIDB          Industrial Developmeat           120.0                  12D.0
Total                                                 2,095.3        35.3    1,098.0
Of which has been repaid                                 240.7        3.4
Total Outstanding                                     1,854.6        31.9
Amount sold                           16,8
Of which has been repaid              16.8                 0.0
Total now held by Bank A IDA 1/                        1,854.6       31.9
Total undisbursed                                                             1,098.0
B. STATEMFNT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of June 30, 1983)
Fisoal                                                   Type of         Amount in US$ Million
Year                                                   Business         Loan    Equity    Total
1964, 1967.        Arewa Textiles Ltd.                  Textile Mfg-    1.0         0.6       1.6
1970
1964               Nigeria Industrial                   Dev. Fin. Co.               1.4       1.4
Developmept Bank ltd.
1973               Funtua Cottonseed                    Weg. Oil          1.6                 1.6
Crushing Ltd.                        Crushing
1973               Nigerian Aluminium                   Aluminium         1.0       0.3       1.3
Extrusion Ltd.                       Processing
1974               Lifiaga Sugar                        Sugar                       0.1       0.1
Estate
t980               NTM                                  Textiles          6.2       0.7       6.9
1981               Ikeja Hotel                          Tourism           7.5       1.8       9.3
Total Cross Commitients                              17.3       4.9      22.2
Less cancellations                                  1.5       0.1       1.6
Lesn sold and repaid                                2.6       1.5       4.1
Total Commitment now held by IFC                     13.2        3.3     16.5
Undlqburned                                           6.5       1.8       8l.3
Not yet effAetlve
I./  Prio.r t-, ,;fX    raszS.,1:t. n1r+>l



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of June 30, 1983)
Loan No. 929-UNI   Third Education Project:  US$54.0 million loan of August
16, 1973; Effective Date: January 14, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The closing date of the loan lapsed on December 31, 1982, and the
remaining portion of the loan proceeds will be cancelled after the final
withdrawal applications have been processed.
Loan No. 1045--UNI Second Cocoa Project: US$20 million Loan of October 11,
1974; Effective Date: October 15, 1975; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The project's planting targets have been fully achieved by all four
participating states. Loan recovery performance, however, surfaced as a major
problem. A tight "action program" was initiated, and updating and
reconciliation of farmer loan records was completed. A project completion
report has been prepared. The closing date lapsed on March 31, 1983, and a
small portion of the loan proceeds is now being cancelled.
Loan No. 1091-lJNI Livestock Development Project: US$21.0 million Loan of
March 20, 1975; Effective Date: July 19, 1976; Closing
Date: July 1, 1983
The project is now under good management which has overcome most of
the initial problems. Supporting services are better organized, and credit is
being effectively channeled through NACB. The project has been completed and
a project completion report is being prepared by the Federal Government. The
closing date has lapsed, and a small portion of the loan proceeds is now being
cancelled.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors
regarding the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to
report any problems which are being encountered, and the action being
taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Loan No. 1103-UNI Rice Project: US$17.5 million Loan of April 25, 1974;
Effective Date: January 10, 1976; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Project implementation made a slow start due to deficiencies in
counterpart funding and staffing limitations. The Bank withdrew from the
project component located in Cross River State because of acute problems of
cost overruns and inadequate physical progress. To expedite project
completion, the balance of loan funds held over from the Cross River State
component was reallocated to Anambra and Imo State components where physical
project progress was better. But development continued to be impaired by
insufficient counterpart funding. A few final withdrawal applications are
being processed, and any remaining loan proceeds will be cancelled.
Loan No. 1183-UNI Mid-Western (Bendel) State Oil Palm Project: US$29.5
million Loan of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: October
17, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Appraisal targets for the nucleus estate and smallholder components
have not been met due to delays in land acquisition, and the project has been
facing serious financial and managerial problems. Persistent difficulties
forced the Bank to suspend disbursements under the nucleus estate part of the
Loan as of July 13, 1981. In view of continued progress under the smallholder
component and with the appointment of managing agents for the estate company
and the promise of additional counterpart funding from Bendel State, the Bank
lifted suspension on November 1, 1981. However, after a project review
mission to Bendel State in February/March 1982 reported continued problems,
particularly concerning project funding, the Bank suspended all disbursements
under the Loan as of May 15, 1982. The Bank cancelled the undisbursed amount
under the Loan as of June 16, 1982, except for a small amount to allow for the
processing of outstanding withdrawal applications. The project completion
report has been prepared and distributed.
Loan No. 1191-UNI East Central (Imo) State Oil Palm Project: US$19.0 million
Loan of February 12, 1976; Effective Date: April 6, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the creation of
new states and problems with staffing. Even though appraisal planting targets
have not been met and the construction of palm oil mills has been delayed, the
project has the best potential for smallholder oil palm development, and
planting rates are now at an acceptable level. The project has, however,
encountered serious problems due to the insufficiency of counterpart funding.
Loan No. 1454-UNI Lafia Agricultural Development Project: US$27.0 million
Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date: March 3, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The provision of adequate and timely funding continues to be
problematic, and overall project progress has slowed. An internal completion
report is under preparation.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Loan No. 1455-UNI Ayangba Agricultural Development Project: US$25.0 million
Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date: March 3, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project progress has recently stagnated because of local funding and
staff constraints. Overall, however, the project has already met most of its
physical targets set at appraisal. An internal completion report is under
preparation.
Loan No. 1591-UNI  Rivers State Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm Project:
US$30.0 million Loan of July 24, 1978; Effective Date:
July 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Physical progress of the nucleus estate continues to be satisfactory,
but funding problems persist after some improvement in late-1980. However,
the first 20 ton/hour oil mill is expected to begin operations shortly, and
this should contribute to the funding of the nucleus estate.  The smallholder
component faces serious managerial and funding difficulties, and it is
doubtful whether this component should be continued.  During 1982, the number
of staff was reduced, and no planting took place.
Loan No. 1597-lJNI Nigerian Industrial Development Bank, Ltd.: US$60 million
Loan of June 15, 1978; Effective Date: October 24, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The loan has been fully committed and about 60 percent disbursed. A
next line of credit to NIDB was approved by the Executive Directors on June 2,
1983.
Loan No. 1667-UNI Bida Agricultural Development Project: US$23 million Loan
of September 17, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project has progressed well but funding problems are now
constraining further development.
Loan No. 1668-UNI Ilorin Agricultural Development Project: US$27 million
Loan of September 17, 1979; Effective Date: April 25,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Project progress, impaired at first by delays in the retcruitment of
intermediate-level project staff, has now substantially improved. However,
because of recent local funding difficulties, project activities have been
reduced to a minimum.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Loan No. 1679-UNI Forestry Plantation Project: US$31 million Loan of October
29, 1979; Effective Date: June 30, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Due to a lack of state funding, project implementation has been
affected, particularly the Ondo component which also needs to improve
technical and managerial performance.
Loan No. 1711-UNI Kaduna Water Supply Project: US$92 million Loan of July
16, 1979; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Although behind schedule, project implementation is satisfactory.
Most contracts have now been awarded. However, the recent tariff increases
approved by the State Government are not sufficient to restore KSWB's
financial viability. In addition, local funding problems are now slowing
project implementation.
Loan No. 1719-UNI Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
Project: US$9 million Loan of July 16, 1979; Effective
Date: March 30, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Management consultants are in the field, and the teaching program
proceeds satisfactorily. However, there are procurement problems that may
lead to cancellation of part of the loan.
Loan No. 1766-UNI  Lagos Power Distribution Project:  US$100 million Loan of
February 19, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
The project is now two years behind schedule. The delay has been
caused mainly by tardiness in procurement because of the time taken by
Government to approve the award of contracts.
Loan No. 1767-UNI Urban Development Project (Bauchi State): US$17.8 million
Loan of February 19, 1980; Effective Date: August 12,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is proceeding reasonably well after largely overcoming
local funding and contractual problems. Execution of civil works is expected
to be completed around July 1983, and the closing date has been extended by
one year to June 30, 1984. The first certificates of occupancy have been
issued to beneficiary households in the sites and services scheme. Technical
assistance is being provided to the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria to review
its financial and operational problems. After recruitment delays, this work
was delayed further by management problems.



- 32 -
ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 7
Loan No. 1838--UNI Oyo-North Agricultural Development Project: US$28.0
million Loan of August 25, 1980; Effective Date: March 1,
1982; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
After a nearly two year delay in loan effectiveness because of staff
recruitment problems, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily. Procure-
ment of plant, equipment, and vehicles is underway.
Loan No. 1854-UNI Ekiti-Akoko Agricultural Development Project: US$32.5
million Loan of December 15, 1980; Effective Date:
November 20, 1981; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
The project has shown some improvement during the first half of
1983. Funding improved largely through timely contribution by the Federal
Government and reimbursement from the Bank. Although the State Government has
been unable to make its required contributions, it has agreed to guarantee a
loan from two commercial banks to meet its commitment for 1983. They have
also agreed to subscribe to the Federal Government's Development Loan Stock.
Loan No. 1883-UNI Sixth Highway Project: US$108 million Loan of August 25,
1980; Effective Date: December 11, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
The road strengthening works are well advanced, and the training
component is progressing satisfactcorily.
Loan No. 1981-UNI Bauchi State Agricultural Development Project: US$132
million Loan of September 2, 1981; Effective Date:
December 23, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
After a good start, the project is now experiencing local funding
problems, which have slowed down project implementation.
Loan No. 1982--UNI Kano Agricultural Development Project: US$142 million Loan
of September 2, 1981; Effective Date: December 29, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is proceeding satisfactorily, but is still experiencing
some local funding problems.
Loan No. 2029-UNI Agricultural Technical Assistance Project: US$47 million
Loan of September 2, 1981; Effective Date: January 21,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
With the resolution of several staffing issues, the project is now
proceeding satisfactorily in its initial stages.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Loan No. 2036-UNI  Anambra Water Supply and Sanitation Project:  US$67 million
Loan of November 13, 1981; Effective Date: March 19, 1982;
Closing Date: September 30, 1987
The project is proceeding satisfactorily in its initial stages with
nine of the eleven major contracts signed. Improvements are already evident
in the managerial and financial operations of the Anambra State Water
Corporation.  A 75 percent tariff increase was implemented from January
1983.  The project has been experiencing local funding problems during FY1983.
Loan No. 2085-UNI Sixth Power Project: US$100 million Loan of June 23, 1982;
Effective Date: November 17, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
Three fixed price contracts for Part A of the project have been
signed. The appointment of consultants for Part B of the project is expected
to be finalized soon. Consultants have been appointed to begin a program of
staff training for NEPA.
Loan No. 2185-UNI  Sokoto Agricultural Development Project:  US$147 million
Loan of January 4, 1983; Effective Date: April 28, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
After a good start, using short-term consultants, the project is
facing some problems of local funding.
Loan Ng. 2299-UNI  Nigerian Industrial Development, Ltd.:  US$120 million
Loan of July 28, 1983; Not yet Effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988
The project is proceeding satisfactorily in its initial stages.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
FERTILIZER LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:               Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the borrower to prepare the Project: 6 months
(b) Agency which prepared the Project:
Federal Government of Nigeria, Ministry of Agriculture
(c) Project first identified by the Bank: May 1982
(d) Date of Bank Appraisal Mission: March-April 1983
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: June 24, 1983
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: October 7, 1983
Section II:     Special Bank Implementation Actions
Recruitment of three internationally- recruited experts in the fields
of procurement, marketing and logistics, and finance and accounts
financed under ATAP (Loan No. 2029-UNI).
Section III:           Special Conditions
(a) maintain a separate budget head of account for the fertilizer
subsidy (para. 55);
(b) establish a designated bank account abroad and pay US$4.8
million for first month (para. 57; Condition of Effectiveness);
(c) provide the required foreign exchange and local funds to ensure
the timely availability of fertilizer to meet the agreed
fertilizer consumption targets (para. 57);
(d) ensure that NAFCON has enough cash resources, both in terms of
foreign exchange and local funds, to handle the country's total
fertilizer requirements for 1985 (paras. 57 and 64);
(e)  increase the retail price of different types of fertilizers by
at least 100 percent and announce the same no later than January
1, 1984 (para. 59);



- 35 -
(f) increase the retail price of fertilizers to achieve a reduction
in the total fertilizer subsidy to 50 percent by November 1,
1984 and to 25 percent by 1988, subject to an annual review of
the effect of earlier price increases on fertilizer demand
(paras. 59 and 60);
(g) ensure fixed uniform country-wide retail selling prices for each
fertilizer product para. 59);
(h) cause APMEPU to evaluate the effect of fertilizer price
increases on fertilizer demand; the first evaluation to be
completed by September 30, 1984 (para. 60);
(i) ensure prompt payment by the state agricultural input supply
companies of an amount equivalent to at least the retail price
of fertilizer less the agreed intra-state handling costs in the
1984 crop season (para. 63);
(j) strengthen FPDD by September 30, 1983 at the middle managment
level with locally recruited staff in market intelligence, port
operations, fertilizer distribution, rail and road movement,
accounts, administration, and law (para. 63); and
(k) release the second tranche of the loan for the crop year 1985
only after (para. 73):
(i)    preparation of a detailed fertilizer marketing and
funding plan and a timetable for implementation
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)   agreement on suitable retail prices for each type of
fertilizer for the 1985 crop year;
(iii) agreement on a package of measures to implement
recommendations of various studies carrried out under the
Loan;
(iv)   establishment by the Federal Government of satisfactory
funding arrangements both for foreign exchange and local
costs of fertilizer program; and
(v)    establishment by the Federal Government of satisfactory
funding arrangements for ADPs.



- 36 -
NIGERIA                                                ANNEY 1 I
Table 1
FERTILIZER LOAN
PHASING OF TOTAL PROGRAM COST ESTIMATE
Nmn
Quantity 000 Tons             Foreign Exchange                     Local Costs                  Total       Total
Imported      Locally       IBRD      FGN    Total         FGN      State 1/    Total          Program        FGN
…-- -   - --  - - - --  - -   …-- - -  - --  - - -  -- -  -  - -- -  - - --  - -  - -- - -  - -- -  - -  -   ---   -----------
1983    September                _               5          _       _        _             1.4      0.2          1.6           1.6           1.4
October                 -               5          -       3.2      3.2           1.4      0.1          1.5           4.7           4.6
November              100               5          9.5     6.3    15.8            2.8      0.2          3.0          18.8           9.1
December              200               5         19.0     6.3    25.3           10.6      3.7         14.3          39.6         16.9
SubTotal 1983                  300              20         28.5   15.8    44.3            16.2      4.2         20.4          64.7          32.0
1984    January                200               5         19.0     6.3    25.3           17.1      7.1         24.2          49.5         23.4
February             200                5         19.0    4.3    23.3            17.1      7.1         24.2          47.5         21.4
March                 135               5         12.8      -      12.8          16.2       7.1        23.3          36.1         16.2
April                   -               5           -       -        -           10.1     4.9         15.0          15.0         10.1
May                     -               5           -       -        -            1.4      0.2          1.6           1.6           1.4
June                    -               5           -       -        -            1.4      0.2          1.6           1.6           1.4
July                    -               5           -       -        -            1.4      0.2          1.6           1.6          1.4
August                  -               5           -       -        -            1.4      0.2          1.6           1.6          1.4
I Sub Total                      5:35             40         50.8   10.6    61.4             66.1    26.9         93.0         154.4          76.7
Total 1984 Crop Season         835              60         79.3   26.4   105.7            82.3     31.1        113.4         219.1        108.7
1984     September               -               5           -       -        -            1.5      0.1          1.6           1.6          1.5
October                -               5           -    10.7    10.7             1.6      0.2          1.8          12.5          12.3
November             150               5         10.6   14.1    24.7             4.0      0.1          4.1          28.8          18.1
December             200               5         14.2   14.2    28.4            15.7      4.4         20.1          48.5          29.9
SubTotal                       350              20         24.8   39.0    63.6            22.8      4.8         27.6         91.4          61.8
Total 1984                    885               60         75.6   49.6   125.2            88.9     31.7        120.6        245.8         138.5
1985    January               200                5         14.1   14.1    28.2            19.3      ,.3         25.1         53,3          33 3
February             200                5         14.2   14.2    28.4            19.3      5.8         25.1         53335
March                 200               5         14.1   14.1      28.2          19.3      5.8         25.1         53.3          33.4
April                 200               5         14.2    4.4    18.6            19.3      5.8         25.1         43.7          23.8
May                   ,52               5          4.4      -       4.4          17.1      5.8         22,9         27.3          17.1
June                  -                 5           -       -        -            6.1      1.9          8.0          8.0           6.1
p          July                                     5           _-                            1.6      0.2          1.8          1.8           1.6
p          August                                   5           -       _        -            1.6      0.1         1.7           1.7           1.6
X SubTotal                        862             40         61.0   46.8   107.8           103.6    31.2         134.8         242.6         150.4
p Total 1985 Crop Season         1212              60        85.8   85.8   171.6           126.4    36.0         162.4         334.0         212.2          l
Total Fertilizer CGst         2047             120        165.1  112.2   277.3           208.7    67.1         275.8         553.1         320.9
I Front End Fee                                                0.4    -         0.4           -         _                         0.4
I Studies, Technical
Assistance, Training                                    I
and Equipment                                    _           1.1_  -_         1.1           -         -              -         1.1-
TOTAL                     3   2047             120        166.6  112.2   278 8           208.7    67.1         275 8         554 6         320.9
1/  Distribution costs within the states for 1985 crop season will be carried by NAFCON.
Notes
1. Payments by IBRD to suppliers will be made in the month ships arrive in Nigeria while tusN paymelLt (fur i..ujorLed fertilizer)
will be made one month earlier.
2.  IBRD will finance 75% and 50% of the estimated imported fertilizer for 1984 and 1985 cropseasons respectively and the balance
will be paid by FGN.
3. Local monthly procurement of 5,000 tens will be naid in month following delivery.
4. Clearing charges paid in the month of discharge.
5. Transporters paid in the month following delivery.
6.  Projections are at 1963 prices, price contingencies estimated at 7.5% for both foreign exchange and local costs for 1984 crop
season; for 1985 crop season 12% and 13% were applied to the foreign exchange and local costs respectively.
7. Local taxes and duties are not included as FGN expects to get exemption like other Bank-assisted projects.



- 37 -                            ANNEX IV
Table 2
NIGERIA
FERTILIZER LOAN
PHASING OF FOREIGN COST ESTIMATE
US$ mn
Quantity
'000 Tons       IBRD        FGN       TOTAL
1. Imported Fertilizer -/
1983   October                                                     4.8         4.8
November                          100          14.2         9.4        23.6
December                          200           28.5        9.5        38.0
Sub Total 1983                           300           42.7        23.7       66.4
1984   January                           200           28.5        9.5        38.0
February                          200          28.5         6.4        34.9
March                             135           19.2        -          19.2
Sub Total                                535           76.2       15.9        92.1
Total 1984 Crop Season                   835          118.9        39.6      158.5
1984   October                            -            -          16.0        16.0
November                          150          15.9        21.2        37.1
December                          200           21.3       21.3        42.6
Sub Total                                350           37.2       58.5        95.7
1985   January                           200           21.2       21.2        42.4
February                         200           21.3        21.3        42.6
March                             200          21.2        21.2        42.4
April                             200          21.3         6.6        27.9
May                                62            6.6        -           6.6
Sub Total                                862           91.6       70.3       161.9
Total 1985 Crop Season                  1212          128.8       128.8      257.6
Total 1984 and 1985                     2047          247.7      168.4       416.1
2. Studies, Technical Assistance,
Training and Equipment 2/                              1.7        -           1.7
3.  Front-End Fee                                           0.6         -          0.6
Total Cost                                            250.0      168.4       418.4
1/ All projections are at 1983 prices, price contingency estimated at 7.5% for
1984 crop season and 12% for 1985 crop season.
2/ To be disbursed Jan-June 1984.



- 38 _
ANNEX IV
Table 3
NIGERIA
FERTILIZER LOAN
TOTAL COST ESTIMATE
Quantities (000 tons)                          1984        1985        TOTAL
Import                                         835        1212         2047
Local Production                   .            60           60          120
895       1272          2167
Cost Estimates (Naira Million)
Procurement
Import (cif) Cost -                           105.6       171.7        277.3
Domestic Production Costs                      12.9        14.6         27.5
Total Procurement Cost 2/                    118.5       186.3        304.8
Distribution
Port Clearance -                              11.7        19.1         30.8
Transportation to States -/                   57.7        92.7        150.4
Intra-state Costs -                           31. 2       35.9         67.1
Total Distribution Costs                    100. 6      147.7        248.3
Studies, Technical Assistance,
Training and Equipment                           1.1         -            1.1
TOTAL PROGRAM COST -/                           220.2       334.0        554.2
1/   This includes price contingency at 7.5% for the 1984 crop year over the
early 1983 base price and 12% for the 1985 crop year.
2/    Local production base cost @N200/ton.
3/    Clearing base cost @N13/ton
4/   N60/ton.
5/   N35/ton for 1984 and N25/ton for 1985.
6/   Does not include front end fee (NO.4 million) on Bank loan.
Note: Local cost estimate includes price contingencies at the rates of 7.5%
and 13% for 1984 and 1985 crop seasons respectively.



- 39-                       ANNEX IV
Table 4
NIGERIA
FERTILIZER LOAN
BREAKDOWN OF THE FARM GATE COST/TON
1984                1985
.
US$/Ton
Foreign Exchange Cost
1983 Price                                    176.6               176.6
Price Contingency 2/                           13.2                36.0
Total Import Cost                             189.8               212.6
N/Ton
Importation C&F at $1.5 to N                    126.5               141.7
Local Production Cost                           200.0               200.0
Procurement Cost                                131.4-/             144.9
Clearing                             13.0                   13.0
Transportation to States'                                       l/
Warehouses                          60.0        72.1 -    60.0      72.3
203.5               217.2
Transportation within the States                 35.0                25.0
Total base cost                                238.5                242.2
Local price contingencies 3/                      6.4                20.8
Total Cost                                      244.9               263.0
1/   Totals may not agree due to the use of weighted average.  Quantities
are 835,000 tons and 1,212,000 tons imported in 1984 and 1985
respectively and 60,000 tons purchased locally each year. No clearing
charges for domestic purchases.
2/   Price contingencies for foreign cost are 7.5% and 12% for 1984 and 1985
crop seasons respectively.
3/   Price contingencies for local cost is 7.5% and 13% for 1984 and 1985 crop
seasons respectively.



- 40 -
ANNEX IV
Table 5
NIG ERIA
FERTILIZER LOAN
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ mn)
FY 84                                        Cumulative
September             0.6                       0.6
November             14.2                      14.8
December             28.5                      43.3
January              28.5                      71.8
FebruaLry            28.5                     100.3
March                19.2                     119.5
April                 O.6                     120.1
May                   0.6                     120.7
June                  0.5                     121.2
FY 85
November             15.9                     137.1
December             21.3                     158.4
January              21.2                     179.6
February             21.3                     200.9
March                21.2                     222.1
April                21.3                     243.4
May                   6.6                     250.0



- 41 -
ANNEX IV
Table 6
NIGERIA
FERTILIZER LOAN
TOTAL FERTILIZER SUBSIDY
1984        1985
Quantity ('000 tonnes)                            895        1,212
N million
Total Cost                                        220.8        334.1
Farmers Contribution on Basis of
- Current sale price
(N42/tonne)                               37.6         50.9
- Proposed sale price
under Loan Agreement
(N84/tonne and N131.5/tonne
for 1984/1985 respectively)               75.2        159.4
Total Subsidy Amount
-  without increase in sale price            183.2       283.2
- with increase in sale price
as required under the Loan
Agreement                                145.6        174.7



I



________________                                                                                                                                         IBRD 12756R1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD175R
G        E  R                                                                                                                     N, ?ragleXfa5offiu-tu 2Dm.n 5
NIGER~~~~~~
RAN ~ ~ ~       ~         ~        ~        ~       ~       ~        N 
IZ'= 5                                                  i                                    /22 ,7 ~+ \e t J   <nlx   )4   '! KAbfv gH Ot 6 J  MA DUGURI AA'
1 B~T-4                                                    f
[ -. .04    W  0        ;    X  'Brs                             89--' '  -'-                         <' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  OHA   MA.  -:-.-           c-t4.-
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~-
N.                                                                                                                         1H,&Q&  0    A
;1;E jii05+    gOfZ    (     tOndo°gptwl 19\(;\5  t   1t            S>;-7p°           lSh       tsns4                 a        X       X     nid         g e7u         Lai     : ;. Alh; .
f / A<U ' , t .- .,AD!U NtltmytS!ON¢ s .1~~~~~~~~~~~
>_;~~~~~~~~~~L .......  ...G/fOf onoaS  sFS?WUtig'1i,S      t\LL'a;*\¢1,,RIN    L5 
td t L i           L      <h                u f  \     2        8  r t i       1;                zd     ;;  b   1   0 "   i        OAA A.-s              S  i     \     
-   I G I E R A   9 9   r .   g   . ; f L   f   w E U m u a h o ; , ,   . H '   ; i - , 9 i   "'1   w ;   i L :   S i, 3 7     g   jl W ::   1 ,   !'(90   i ' =   m a l  ,   ; A
ta  21 \                                        tC       A     LB               S        0     =  i    ::  *2;E  @'m0SN  gt{  ,i,    $2j;2:;9 i' :: °g  j    ;;  0 )'EN  
V  itS i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k                             <     0<A1 0,, 1 ;-6. i": ,.:a;Xi  :,,
i  M  e  ,  b i 0 i 'ad ' d 0 B d f pau |5 ~~~~~~A ,.IJgFX7#jg;



