n              OAN NUMBER 2345 UNI
OUENTS
Loan Agreement
(Fertilizer Loan)
between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2345 r
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      62 &   C47 /          , 1983, between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Borrower's program to promote agricul-
tural development in Nigeria involving the importation, distri-
bution and marketing of fertilizer and other matters connected
therewith;
(B) the Bank has decided to assist in financing such pro-
gram by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Program" means the portion of the Borrower's program
referred to in Recital A to this Agreement which is expected to
commence in 1983 and end in 1985;
(b) "NAFCON" means the National Fertilizer Company of
Nigeria Limited;
(c) "FPDD" means the Fertilizer Procurement and Distribu-
tion Division of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture;


﻿-2-
(d)  "Naira" or the sign N means currency of the Borrower;
(e) "Fiscal Year" means the period July 1 through June 30
in any year of the Program; and
(f)  "price not-"" ation date" means the date on which the
Borrower notifies tv   States and other distribution agencies of
the Borrower participating in the Program of the fertilizer
retail price increase required by Section 3.05 (a) (i) of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twa hundred
fifty million dollars ($250,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, tc ie made) in res-
pect of the reasonable cost of imported goo,     and other items
included in the said Schedule.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan chall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to six hundred twenty three thousand four hundred
forty-one dollars ($623,441).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Inter-
est Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Bor-
rowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
mencing on each date specified in Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B) here-
under shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93% per
annum.
(iii) "Qualified Borrowings" means (A) outstanding bor-
rowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981.and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 2.10. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, NAFCON is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or per-,
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions with respect to
expenditures to be made under Category (1) in Schedule I hereto
in 1985 or such other year as the Borrower and the Bank shall
determine.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Program
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Program with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and fertilizer importation, distribu-
tion and marketing practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Program and the studies required under Section 3.10 (b)
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be
employed, consultants, specialists and experts whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants, experts and spe-
cialists to be selected in accordance with principles and proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for
the purposes of the Loan.


﻿-5-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Program, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Program (including its cost and the benefits to
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the
Program; (ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives to visit
the facilities and sites included in the Program and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish, or cause to
be furnished, to the Bank at regular intervals all such informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Program,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower or NAFCON of any con-
tract for goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Program, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish, or cause to
be prepared and furnished, to the Bank a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the Program, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under
the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower: (i) shall no later than
January 1, 1984 increase by one hundred per cent     (100%) the
retail price in effect as of January 1, 1983 for each type of
fertilizer; and (ii) shall take all action necessary (in-luding


﻿- 6-
adjustments in the retail fertilizer price) to ensure that ferti-
lizer subsidies in effect (A) on November 1, 1984 do not exceed
fifty per cent (50%) of the farm-gate cost of fertilizer for
1985, as estimated by the Borrower and the Bank; and (B) on
November 1, 1987 do not exceed twenty-five per cent (25%) of the
farm-gate cost of fertilizer for 1988, as estimated by the Bor-
rower and the Bank.
(b) The Borrower and the Bank: (i) shall carry out annually
a comprehensive review of the fertilizer price increase or in-
creases effected under this Section and of all other measures
taken by the Borrower to reduce fertilizer subsidies; (ii) shall
jointly evaluate the effects of such increases and measures on
fertilizer demand; and (iii) shall, on the basis of such evalua-
tion, jointly determine a retail price for fertilizer products
appropriate for the year immediately following the year of the
annual review. The first review under this paragraph shall be
carried out no later than October 15, 1984 and subsequent annual
reviews no later than October 15 in 1985 through 1988, all the
said dates being subject to change by agreement between the Bank
and the Borrower.
(c) Without limitation or restriction on its obligations
under the preceding provisions of this Section, the Borrower
shall cause the Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and
Planning Unit of the Federal Department of Rural Development o
evaluate annually not later than September 30, beginning with
1984, the effects of fertilizer price increases on fertilizer
demand.
Section 3.06. Commencing with its 1984 budget, the Borrower
shall establish and thereafter maintain under its budget a sepa-
rate classification code for fertilizer showing by sub-heads:
subsidies, other expendit-res, and receipts.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower and the Bank agree that the
timely availability of fertilizer to meet fertilizer consumption
targets established under the Program is of critical importance
to the Borrower's agricultural development program. The Borrower
therefore undertakes to take all action necessary. to release
promptly as needed all the foreign exchange, Naira funds and such
other resources as shall be required for the importation, distri-
bution, and marketing of fertilizer under the Program.


﻿-7-
(b) The Borrower shall no later than June 30, 1984 make
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the provision to NAFCON
of local and foreign cash resources sufficient to meet NAFCON's
entire cash flow needs under the Program for the period ending
October 31, 1985.
(c) Without limitation or restriction on its obligations
under this Section, the 6,orrower: (i) shall cause the following
quantities of fertilizer .j be imported under the Program (A) in
respect of 1984 not less than 835,000 tons (or 310,400 nutrient
tons) by April 30, 1984, and (B) in respect of 1985, not less
than 1,212,000 tons (or 461,200 nutrient tons) by May 31, 1985;
and (ii) shall designate a bank abroad and open an account with
that bank into which the Borrower shall pay for the benefit of
the suppliers of fertilizer under the Program its full share of
the foreign exchange costs of the Program by monthly deposits
made in accordance with the schedule set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be modified by agreement
between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause all fertilizer pro-
ducts to be sold at fixed, uniform and country-wide retail sel-
ling prices.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall, under arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank, ensure that each State agricultural
supply company or other organization responsible for the sale of
fertilizer products in the State pays to the Borrower, within 60
days after the delivery by the Borrower of fertilizer products to
such company or organization, at least the full retail price of
such products less the uniform intra-State handling costs deter-
mined by the Borrower aL of September 30, 1983 for the year 1984.
(b) The Borrower shall not supply any more fertilizer pro-
ducts to any company or organization referred to in paragraph (a)
above which has not made payments in accordance with the said
paragraph until that company or organization has paid to the Bor-
rower the full amounts due and outstanding for fertilizer pro-
ducts supplied.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall reorganize and streng-
then FPDD and shall no later than September 30, 1983 assign to
FPDD eight locally recruited experts and specialists in the fol-
lowing areas of expertise: market intelligence, port operations,
fertilizer distribution, rail and road movement, accounts, admin-
istration, and law.


﻿- 8 -
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Program, the Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried
out: (i) a fertilizer transportation and storage optimization
study; (ii) a study of a credit plan for the provision of short-
term crop production loans and of distribution credit to NAFCON,
wholesalers and retailers of fertilizer; and (iii) a study of the
legal and regulatory framework necessary for the efficient opera-
tion of the fertilizer subsector of agriculture in Nigeria.
(c) The Borrower shall, in consultation with the Bank,
arrange such training (including overseas training) for staff of
FPDD as shall further the purposes of the Program.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall cause NAFCON to prepare
no later than June 30, 1984 a detailed fertilizer marketing and
funding plan, and a timetable for carrying out such plan, both
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower and the Bank shall, on completion of the
studies referred to in Section 3.10 (b) of this Agreement, joint-
ly determine by September 30, 1984 a package   . corrective mea-
sures to be taken by the Borrower to improve the efficiency of
thr fertilizer distribution system and thereby reduce costs.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank; (ii) undertakes that,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall
be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the
Borrower (including assets of the Central Bank of Nigeria, or of
any other institution performing the functions of a central bank
of the Borrower) as security for any external debt, such lien
will ipso facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and
that in the creation of any such lien express provision will be


﻿-9-
made to that effect; and (iii) further undertakes that the Bor-
rower will, within the limits of its constitutional powers, make
the foregoing undertaking effective with respect to liens on
assets of any of the Borrower's political subdivisions or of any
agency of any such political subdivisions, and to the extent that
the Borrower is unable within the limits of its constitutional
powers to make such undertaking effective, the Borrower will give
to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank. The Bor-
rower shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such
lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of pur-
chase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property or as security for the payment of debt
incurred for the purpose of financing the purchase of such pro-
perty; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of bank-
ing transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one
year after its date.
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any of its political subdivi-
sions or of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political
subdivision, including the Central Bank of Nigeria or any insti-
tution performing the functions of a central bank for the Bor-
rower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of
the Program, of NAFCON, FPDD and all other departments or agen-
cies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Program or
any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Bank as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than four months after the end of
each such year, a certified copy of the report oi such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall


﻿- 10 -
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish, or cause to be fur-
nished, to the Bank such other information concerning said sepa-
rate accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Memorandum and Articles of Association of NAFCON
dated December 23, 1981 shall have been amended, suspended,
repealed, or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
operation and financial condition of NAFCON; and
(b) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of NAFCON or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the events speci-
fied in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
.,TICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower has paid into the account opened abroad
under Section 3.07 (c) (ii) hereof an amount equivalent to at
least four million eight hundred thousand dollars ($4,800,000) in
respect of the payment specified for October 1983 in Schedule 4
hereto.
Section 6.02. The date 94ZALy 6/ff< is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Permanent Secretary
Federal Ministry of Finance
P.M.B. 12591
Federal Secretariat, Ikoyi
Lagos, Nigeria
Cable address:                    Telex:
PERMFIN                          21248 (ITT)
Lagos
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
By/J 67g4Lc-
(I  Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Fertilizer               248,000,000       75% of foreign
expenditures
up to May 31,
1984* and there-
after 50% of
foreign expen-
ditures
(2) Technical                  1,076,559        100%
assistance,
training and
studies
(3) Communication                300,000        100% of foreign
equipment for                              expenditures and
FPDD                                       90% of local
expenditures
(4) Fee                         623,441        Amounts due
under Section
2.05 of this
Agreement
TOTAL              250,000,000
*    i.e. expenses incurred on or before May 31, 1984.


﻿- 14 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(b) expenditures made: (i) before January 1, 1984 or the
price notification date (whichever is earlier) in an amount in
excess  of  an   aggregate  amount  of  forty  million  dollars
($40,000,000) equivalent; and (ii) on or after January 1, 1984,
unless and until the Borrower has notified the States and other
distribution agencies of the Borrower participating in the Pro-
gram of the fertilizer retail price increase required by Section
3.05 (a) (i) of this Agreement;
(c) expenditures made under any Category after an aggregate
amount of one hundred twenty-one million two hundred thousand
dollars ($121,200,000) equivalent has been withdrawn unless and
until: (i) NAFCON has prepared the detailed fertilizer marketing
and funding plan and timetable required by Section 3.11 (a) of
this Agreement; (ii) the Borrower and the Bank have, pursuant to
Section 3.05 (b) (iii) of this Agreement, jointly determined a
retail price for fertilizer products appropriate for the year


﻿- 15 -
immediately following the year of the first annual review under
Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement and the Borrower has notified
the States and other distribution agencies referred to in para-
graph 4 (b) above of the retail price determined for such year;
(iii) the Borrower and the Bank have, pursuant to Section 3.11
(b) of this Agreement, jointly determined a package of corrective
measures for the improvement of the efficiency of the fertilizer
distribution system; (iv) the Borrower has made arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank for the full funding of the foreign
exchange and local costs of the Program in accordance with Sec-
tion 3.07 of this Agreement; and (v) the Borrower has made
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the adequate funding of
the Bank-assisted agricultural development projects.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limit-
ing any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning April 1, 1988
through   April 1, 2000                    9,615,000
On October 1, 2000                              9,625,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the. premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                          0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                          0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                            0.65
not more than eleven
years before maturity
More than eleven years but                         0.88
not more than fifteen
years before maturity
More than fifteen years                            1.00
before maturity


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward, or
cause to be prepared and forwarded, to the Bank as soon as pcssi-
ble, and in any event not later than 30 days prior to the date of
availability to the public of the first tender or prequalifica-
tion documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general
procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall pro-
vide, or cause to be provided, the necessary information to up-
date such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to
be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price, or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 19 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Evuipment for FPDD estimated to cost the equivalent of
$60,000 or more but less than the equivalent of $300,000 shall
be procured under contracts awarded after competitive bidding
based on local advertising in accordance with the Borrower's pro-
curement procedures sstisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Equipment for FPDD estimated to cost the equivalent of
less than $60,000 shall be purchased through direct competitive
shopping.
3.   Items to be procured shall be bulked, where possible, to
permit the optimum use of competitive bidding.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish, or
cause to be forwarded, to the Bank, for its comments, the text of
the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising proce-
dures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make, or cause to
be made, such modifications in the said documents or procedures
as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to
the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank, or cause the Bank to be informed of the name of the
bidder to which it intends to award the contract and shall fur-
nish, or cause to be furnished to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿- 20 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the deliv-
ery to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph the Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be furnished,
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the deliv-
ery to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the res-
pective bids, recommendations for award and such c*her inform-
ation as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issl-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank, or cause the Bank to be informed, of the proposed modi-
fication, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons
therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the proposal would be
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall prompt-
ly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for its determina-
tion.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 4
Foreign Costs of Fertilizer
Schedule of Deposits
(Section 3.07 (c) of this Agreement)
Payments to be made by
the Borrower (Expressed
Time of Payment                   in Dollar Equivalent)
1983: October                                 4,800,000
November                               9,400,000
December                               9,500,000
Sub-total                               23,700,000
1984: January                                 9,500,000
February                               6,400,000
March                                      -
Sub-total                               15,900,000
Total 1984 Crop-Year                         39,600,000
1984: October                                16,000,000
November                              21)200,000
December                              21,300,000
Sub-total                               58,500,000
1985: January                                21,200,000
February                              21,300,000
March                                 21,200,000
April                                  6,600,000
Sub-total                               70,300,000
Total 1985 Crop-Year                        128,800,000
Total 1984 and 1985 Crop Years              168,400,000


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this        --day ofL      , 198 3
FOR SECRETARY


