CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 295 SO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 30, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 295 SO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 30, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,       dated    March    30,    1972,    between  SOMALI
DEMOCRATIC       REPUBLIC     (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of a Second Highway Project by extending the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(B)  The African Development Bank (hereinafter called ADB) has, by
agreement dated December 10, 1971 (hereinafter called the ADB Loan Agreement),
agreed to make a loan (hereinafter called the ADB Loan) to the Borrower of an
amount not exceeding the equivalent of one million Units of Account
(1,000,000 U.A.) (the Unit of Account being defined in Artic!2 5 (1) (b) of the
Agreement establishing the African Development Bank), to assist in financing part
of the Project on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
(C)  The Borrower, ADB and the Association have entered into an
agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called the Joint Financing Agreement)
making arrangements for the processing of applications for withdrawal of the
proceeds of the financing to be provided severally by ADB and the Association
and regulating certain other matters of common interest in connection with such
financing;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereio hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof


﻿4
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)  Paragraph 9 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"9. The term "Project" means the project or projects or program or
programs for which the Credit is granted, as described in the Joint Financing
Agreement and as the description thereof shall be amended from time to
time by agreement among the parties to such Agreement."
(b)  The second sentence of Section 3.02 is amended to read as follows:
"A service charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
per annum shall be payable on the portion to be paid out of the Credit
Account of the principal amount of any special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 2.07 of the Joint Financing
Agreement and outstanding from time to time if, under such special
commitment, the Association shall have agreed to pay such principal amount
notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation of the Credit."
(c)   Article V is deleted.
(d)   Section 6.01 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 6.01. Cancellation by the Borrower. The Borrower may by
notice to the Association cancel any amount of the Credit which the
Borrower shall not have withdrawn prior to the giving of such notice, except
that the Borrower may not so cancel any amount of the Credit in respect
of which the Association shall have entered into a special commitment
pursuant to Section 2.07 of the Joint Financing Agreement."
(e)  Section 6.02 is amended by inserting the worus "or the ADB Loan
Agreement or the Joint Financing Agreement" after the words "the Development
Credit Agreement" wherever the latter words appear in Section 6.02, except in
Section 6.02 (b), and by deleting Section 6.02 (h) and renumbering Section
6.02 (i) into Section 6.02 (h).
(f)   Section 6.04 is deleted.
(g)  Section 6.06 is amended by inserting the words ", the Joint Financing
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement".


﻿5
(h)   Section 8.01 is amended by inserting the words "and the Joint
Financing Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in
the first sentence of Section 8.01 and by inserting the words "or the Joint Financing
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in the second
sentence of Section 8.01.
(i)   Section 8.02 is amended by inserting the words "or under the Joint
Financing Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, ol the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million six hundred thousand dollars
*       ($9,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit Account on its books
in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such Account the amount of
the Credit.
(b)   The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth
in, this Development Credit Agreement and in accordance with Article II of the
Joint Financing Agreement.
(c)   Except as shall otherwise be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, no withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made on account
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the
Bank (other than Switzcrland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
such territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 3 1, 1975 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿6
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June I and
December 1 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
June I and December 1 commencing June 1, 1982 and ending December 1, 2021,
each installment to and including the installment payable on December 1, 1991
to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the Credit to be
applied to expenditures on the Project in adcordance with Article III of the Joint
Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Joint Financing Agreement
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obligations set forth
in the Joint Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Joint Financing
Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution,


﻿7
delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges or, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in ef.lct in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary iii the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   a default shall have occurred in the performance of any covenant or
agreement on the part of the Borrower under the ADB Loan Agreement or the
Joint Financing Agreement;
(b)   the outstanding principal of the loan provided for in the ADB Loan
Agreement, or any part thereof, shall have been declared, or become, due and
payable in advance of the agreed maturity thereof in accordance with the terms
of said Agreement; and
(c)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the loan
provided for in the ADB Loan Agreement shall have been suspended, or the
Borrower shall have been unable to withdraw such proceeds, in whole or in part.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in Section 6.02 (a) of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower;


﻿8
(b)   the event specified in Section 6.02 (b) of this Agreement shall occur;
and
(c)   the event specified in Section 6.02 (c) of this Agreement shall occur
and the Borrower shall fail to obtain funds from other sources in substitution
therefor, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, within a period
of one hundred and twenty days.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   all the conditions precedent to the first disbursement as provided for
in the ADB Loan Agreement, except only the effectiveness of this Agreement,
shall have been fulfilled in accordance with its terms;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Joint Financing Agreement on behalf
of the parties thereto respectively have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental or corporate action, and all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of such Agreement or the right to make withdrawals thereunder,
except only the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement or the right
to make withdrawals thereunder or under the ADB Loan Agreement, shall have
been fulfilled;
(c)  the Borrower has enacted legislation to assure the allocation for
highway maintenance of six million four hundred thousand Somali shillings
(So.Sh 6,400,000) for the fiscal year 1972; and
(d)   the Project Revolving Fund referred to in Section 3.06 of the Joint
Financing Agreement has been established.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Joint
Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and constitutes a valid and binding obligation
of the Borrower in accordance with its terms.


﻿9
Section  7.03. The   date  June   27, 1972   is hereby   specified  for
the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Secretary of State for Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Government of the Somali
Democratic Republic
Mogadiscio
Somalia
Cable address:
Minfin
Mogadiscio
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿10
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By /s/ A. A. Addou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M. Shoaib
Vice President


