fl                     ~~~~~RESTRICTED
FI    Ei    'U'PY                           Report No. P - 7 17
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
FOR THE
PORT PROJECT
June 5, 1969



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
FOR THE CYPRUS PORTS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to U.S.$11.5 million
to the Republic of Cyprus to assist in financing the construction of a
new deep-water alongside berth port at Limassol to replace the present
lighterage facilities, and the provision of port equipment for Limassol
and the existing port at Famagusta.
PART I. HISTORICAL
2.        In January 1968 the Government of the Republic of Cyprus asked
the Bank to assist in financing the construction of a new deep-water port
at Limassol. A Bank mission visited Cyprus in March 1968 and advised the
Government to review and update an existing feasibility study of the
country's three main ports. Messrs. Rendel, Palmer and Tritton of the
U.K. were engaged to carry out this work. In December 1968 a reconnais-
sance mission visited the main ports, and soon after the project was
appraised by a mission in January and February 1969.
3.        Negotiations for the proposed Bank loan were held in Washington
between Play 14 and May 26. The Cyprus delegation was headed by Mr. P.
Kazamias, Director General, Ministry of Communications and Works, and
included Mr. A. Andronicou, Senior Coordination Officer, Planning Bureau,
Mr. M. Christodoulides, Senior Engineer, P.W.D., Ministry of Communi-
cations and Works, Mr. K. Talarides, Senior Legal Counsel of the
Republic, and Mr. T. Georghiou, Director, Department of Customs and
Excise.
4.        The Bank has so far made only two loans to Cyprus, both for
power development. The projects for which they were made have been
carried out satisfactorily. The status of their loans as of April 30,
1969, was as follows:



-2-
Loan or                                                Amount (U.S.$ million)
Credit
Number    Year          Borrower        Purpose        Bank        Undisbursed
335       1963  Electricity Authority   Electric       15.3            -
of Cyprus               Power
494       1967  Electricity Authority   Electric        2.8            1.7
of Cyprus               Power
Total (less cancellations)                       18.1           1.7
of which has been repaid to Bank and others     1.6
Total now outstanding                            16.5
Amount sold                       2.0
of which has been repaid        1.2              .8
Total now held by Bank                           15.7
5.        No other loan proposal for Cyprus is expected to come to the
Executive Directors for approval within the next six months.



- 3 -
PART II. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LQISi
6.        Borrower:                     The Republic of Cyprus.
Amount:                      Various currencies equivalent to
U.S.$11.5 million.
Purpose:                     To finance the foreign exchange cost
of the construction of a new deep-
water port at Limassol and the pro-
vision of port equipment at Limassol
and Famagusta.
Amortization:                In 25 years including a 5 year
period of grace, through semi-annual
installments beginning June 1, 1974
and ending June 1, 199h.
Interest Rate:               6-1/2 per cent.
Commitment Charge:           3/4 of 1 per cent.
PART III. THE PROJECT
7.        An appraisal report entitled          - Appraisal of Port Project -
Cyprus" (PTR-22a dated June 5, 1969) is attached.
8.        The Project consists of the construction of a new deep-water,
alongside berth port at Limassol, two miles southwest of the existing
lighterage port which it will replace, and involving: (i) a main and a
secondary breakwater; (ii) two passenger berths and four general cargo
berths, with a total length of 800 m, and 11 m depth of water; (iii) a
passenger terminal and offices for the Port Administration and Customs;
(iv) two transit sheds and two produce inspection sheds; (v) the
necessary roads, with parking, sorting and storage areas; (vi) dredging
of the harbor basin and turning circle to a depth of 11 m; (vii) re-
clamation of additional areas for shore facilities; (viii) procurement
of cargo-handling equipment; and (ix) an access road of approximately
two miles from Limassol to the new port together with water mains and
electrical connections. The project also includes cargo-handling equip-
ment for the port of Famagusta, and provision of engineering, operational
and accounting consulting services and personnel training schemes for
port administration.
9.        An important condition of the proposed loan is the creation
by the end of 1971 of a national port authority to take over and manage
all the public ports in the country. Consultants financed from the



- 4 -
proceeds of the proposed loan will assist the Government in improving the
operations and accounting systGms and wrill roview the tariff structure and
rates of the ports.   The proposed port authority will:
(i) centralize operations and management;
(ii) undertake responsibility for maintenance of port
facilities and equipment;
(iii) have control over cargo handling on ship and
shore, and cargo movements on shore, in transit
sheds and in stacking areas;
(iv) employ a permanent staff of engineers, accountants,
and other technical and professional staff as
needed; and
(v) maintain a separate commercial accounting system.
The proposed port authority will adopt port charges based on costs, which
is not the case at present. Uniform tariffs will be applied at all
public ports, even prior to the establishment of the proposed port autho-
rity, to produce revenues assuring a financial rate of return on average
net fixed assets of not less than 7 per cent by 1978 and higher there-
after. All fixed assets will be determined by an inventory to be
completed by December 31, 1970 in which they will be valued at current
replacement cost and will be assigned effective economic lives.
10.       Total estimated cost of the project is $18.6 million equivalent,
of which $11.5 million is the foreign exchange cost to be financed by the
proposed Bank loan. Local costs will be covered by the Government out of
budgetary funds. All contracts for construction work and the supply of
equipment will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding.
Retroactive financing is proposed for payments made to the engineering
consultants for their work after July 1, 1968, on the feasibility study,
preliminary engineering, detailed engineering and bidding procedures; the
amount involved is expected to be about $150,000.
11.       The main quantifiable benefits to be derived from the project
consist of reduction in the costs of handling cargo by elimination of
lighterage, less damage to cargo, shorter ship servicing time and reduced
inland transport costs. Additional benefits would result from
increasing passenger traffic. Projected over the assumed economic life
of the project, these benefits yield an economic return of 15 per cent on
the investment.



- 5 -
PART IV. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
12.       The draft Loan Agreement, the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III Section (iii) of the Article of Agreement and the
text of a draft Resolution approving the proposed loan are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
13.       The draft Loan Agreement is substantially in the form which has
been used for recent loans for port projects. The following provisions
of the draft Loan Agreement are of particular interest:
(a) Section 5.08 provides that the Borrower shall establish
and maintain such charges for services at its public ports as shall pro-
duce a reasonable annual return on the average value of net fixed assets
in operation at such ports. (see paragraph .9 of this Report).
(b) Section 5.09 provides that the Borrower shall establish
not later than December 31, 1971 a national port authority which would
(i) be responsible for the construction, operation, maintenance and
development of its public ports, (ii) function under a law and regulations
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, and (iii) have such powers,
management, resources, capital structure and financial policies as are
necessary to enable it to carry out its responsibilities efficiently.
(c) Section 5.12 provides that the Borrower shall ensure
(without derogation from its own obligations under the Loan Agreement)
that the national port authority, once established, would also be
required to carry out the Borrower's obligations and responsibilities
under the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency.
PART V. THE ECONOMY
14.       The report "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Cyprus"
(EA 174a) circulated to the Executive Directors on October 31, 1968 re-
corded the impressive growth of the economy under the First Five Year Plan
(1961-1966) in spite of internal difficulties. The report concluded
that Cyprus was justified in borrowing externally and was creditworthy
for the expected port loan in view of its good economic performance and
prospects, its excellent debt service record and low debt service payments.
External debt is modest. The amount outstanding is about $30 million and
service payments in 1968 were 2 per cent of gross foreign exchange
eaenings.
15.       An economic mission visited Cyprus in February 1969 and a
"Memorandum on the Economic Situation of Cyprus" (Ec/O/69-52/1) dated
June 5, 1969 is attached. The mission's findings confirm the favorable
assessment of Cyprus' economic prospects formulated in the previous



-6-
report. Economic growth has recently continued on a substantial scale
and the country has good potential for further growth particularly in
tourism and agriculture. The Second Five Year Plan (1967-71) proposes
consistent policies to promote growth: its target average rate of
growth (7 per cent) is likely to be achieved and has been exceeded in
its first two year period (1967/1968).
16.       The difficult internal situation has also been improving.
Discussions have continued between representatives of the Greek and
Turkish communities and, although no breakthrough has yet been achieved,
there is a general feeling that a negotiated solution of the political
problem may be reached in the nob too distant future.   Thile there is
always a danger of new disruptive incidents, tension has been reduced
and relations between the communities are slowly becoming more normal.
PART VI.  CQ\JiPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREIEENT
17.       I am satisfied that the proposed Bank Loan complies with the
requirements of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII. RECOI1ENDATION
18.       I recommend that the EKecutive Directors approve the proposed
Loan.
Robert S. IMcNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
June 5, 1969



