Report No. PIC1877
Project Name                   India-Third Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project
Region                         South Asia
Sector                         Agriculture
Project ID                     INPA35158
Borrower                       India, Acting by its President (GOI)
Implementing Agency            Government of Andhra Pradesh (GOAP),
Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area
Development Department (ICAD)
A.P. Secretariat
Hyderabad 500022, India
Contact: Secretary to Govt. (Projects)
Date PID Prepared              March 1995
Project Board Date             January 1996
Objectives
1.   The primary objective of the project would be to realize the
considerable potential created by past irrigation investments in order
to create a drought-free basis for increased agricultural productivity,
and improve rural incomes in economically backward regions of Andhra
Pradesh. The objective would be achieved by Bank support for the
completion of the Second Andhra Pradesh Irrigation (AP II) Project
(Credit 1665-IN/Loan 2662-IN) works for the Srisailem Right Bank Canal
(SRBC) and Sriramasagar Project (SRSP) canal irrigation schemes being
undertaken by ICAD. The project's other objective would be to serve as
a focus of GOAP's initial efforts to identify policy, organizational and
budgetary reforms, system rehabilitation investments and participatory
irrigation management arrangements to overcome the basic deficiencies
and problems of its public irrigation sector.
Description
2.   The project would have the following components:
(a)  SRBC Sub-Project.  Completion works and activities include:
(i) sections of the main supply canal abandoned by contrac-
tors; (ii) the Gorakulu By-Pass aqueduct; (iii) Owk Tunnel and
Owk Reservoir; (iv) lined irrigation network for 65,000 ha (16
irrigation blocks); (v) land drainage and principal on-farm
watercourses; (vi) feeder roads; (vi) O&M staff and water-user
group training; (vii) agricultural and irrigation extension
support; (viii) economic rehabilitation of families affected
by land acquisition for canals and roads; and (ix) Srisailem
Reservoir sedimentation survey and rehabilitation of dam
safety instrumentation.
(b)  SRSP.  Necessary works and activities include: (i) selective
rehabilitation of canal lining and structures of Kakatiya
Canal up to km 234; (ii) rehabilitation and modernization
(lining and additional appurtenant structures) of 163,000 ha



of irrigation network (inclusive of watercourses and drains)
above Lower Manir Dam (D); (iii) partial completion of
distribution network rehabilitation begun under AP II for
80,000 ha below D; (iv) feeder roads; (v) O&M staff and water-
user group training; (vi) agricultural and irrigation exten-
sion support; (vii) economic rehabilitation of families
affected by land acquisition under AP II for network extension
below km 234 of Kakatiya Canal; and (viii) Sriramasagar
Reservoir rehabilitation works and sedimentation survey.
(c)  Technical Assistance (TA). Funding would be provided for
project preparation TA by international and local consultants
to undertake a series of studies for Bank/GOAP preparation an
AP WRCP. Implementation TA would be used to monitor construc-
tion quality and participatory irrigation management.
Project Financing
3.   The costs (inclusive of contingencies) of completing SRBC and SRSP
(limited works below D) are about US$200 million and US$100 million
respectively. The Bank would finance US$0 million of project invest-
ments, and its support would be adequate to complete the proposed
project and realize its objectives. GOAP's current commitments arising
out of on-going irrigation and roads contracts cleared by the Bank under
AP II total about Rs.18441 million (about US$ 59.4 million) and have
become a major burden on GOAP's capital budget. Given that the on-going
works are based on works contracts previously reviewed and cleared by
the Bank, the India Department would support the maximum retroactive
funding percentage of 20t (of the Bank's contribution).
Project Implementation
4.   The irrigation components of the project would be implemented by
ICAD while the Roads Division of the Roads & Buildings Department would
undertake feeder roads. Management of water distribution O&M of minor
canals would increasingly become the responsibility of Water User
Associations (WUAs). GOAP would undertake the creation of WUAs for (i)
selected rehabilitated SRSP distributaries covering an area of 72,000
ha, and (ii) undertake preparations for establishment of WUAs throughout
the SRBC command area. It is proposed that a Project Management and
Supervision Unit be established in the office of ICAD's Secretary
(Projects). The PMSU would be headed by ICAD's Chief Engineer (Monitor-
ing & Evaluation) and fortified by independent consultants. The PMSU
would monitor procurement, construction quality, SRSP O&M and participa-
tory irrigation management initiatives; it would also prepare semi-
annual supervision reports for review by GOAP and Bank missions.
Project Sustainibility
5.   GOAP has agreed in principle to formulate project design features
which, in the light of the lessons of previous projects, could contrib-
ute to SRSP's sustainibility. Such features include: (a) reorganization
of field O&M units based on a defined work program, adequate works
budgets, communications, logistics, and individual responsibilities and
accountability; (b) strict enforcement of rotational water supply (RWS)
- 2 -



discipline and a requirement that farmers supplement rice consumptive
use by conjunctive use of groundwater (shallow dug-wells are ubiquitous
in the SRSP command area); (c) viable WUA arrangements based on
involvement of all irrigators served by a minor canal; (d) creation of
an apex organization of WUA representatives to elicit equitable and
timely services from the O&M organization; (e) dry season ("rabi")
supply to only two-thirds of SRSP on an annual rotation basis to enable
concentrated O&M and ensure adequate and equitable rabi season supplies
to all farmers; (f) provision for an increased O&M works budget specific
to SRSP from FY 96; and (g) lining of all canals down to 1 cusec
capacity to ensure their physical life and seepage loss reduction.
6.   River basin simulation studies of the Krishna and Godavari Rivers
within Andhra Pradesh have been conducted to ensure that SRBC and SRSP
would have adequate water supplies under conditions of full development
of all irrigation and water supply projects sanctioned by the Krishna
and Godavari Water Disputes Award Tribunals. Based on the simulation
studies, GOAP will have to submit reservoir water allocation and release
rules agreed between the Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board and ICAD
prior to appraisal. The institutional arrangements to be tested under
the project would serve as a pilot for identifying organizational
reforms and viable procedures for improved beneficiary participation,
O&M funding and organization, and reliable irrigation service. Improved
construction supervision arrangements to improve construction quality -
such as appointment of general supervision consultants - will also being
sought during project appraisal.
Environmental and Social Aspects
7.   The proposed project would have no adverse irreversible impact on
the physical environment, and improve social conditions in general:
hence an Environmental Assessment Category 'B' was approved. Analysis
has confirmed that the potential for development of widespread waterlog-
ging is small under a RWS regime as: (a) extensive groundwater utiliza-
tion by shallow dug-wells already exists in SRSP and effectively
controls groundwater levels; and (b) given rationed RWS, the heavy soils
of SRBC are likely to be carefully irrigated. The project will not have
any adverse impact on National Parks and Protected Areas. Environmental
impact assessment reports for each sub-project are under preparation and
will be submitted prior to project appraisal. However, since Government
of India environmental clearance has not yet been obtained by GOAP, the
project will be upgraded to environmental category 'A'.
8.   GOAP has submitted an Economic Rehabilitation Policy (ERP) for
Project Affected Persons (PAPs) to the Bank for review. The Policy,
inter alia, provides entitlements to all PAPs including landless persons
and persons belonging to Scheduled Castes and Tribes (SCs and STs), and
caters for any instances of involuntary displacement that may result
from land acquisition. Socio-economic surveys are underway to determine
the demographic composition and number of people that would be adversely
affected by land or property loss as a result of: (a) past and future
land acquisition for SRBC; and (b) land acquisition carried out under
the AP II project in the SRSP command area below km 234 of Kakatiya
Canal. Economic Rehabilitation Action Plans (ERAPs) based on the ERP
and socio-economic surveys will be prepared for SRBC and SRSP to ensure
that PAPs are not adversely affected by either the AP II or AP III
- 3 -



projects. ERAPs for SRBC and SRBC will be submitted to the Bank for
review prior to appraisal.   A 10. sample survey of the "Below Poverty
Line" PAPs included under the AP II Resettlement Action Plan will be
carried out prior to completion of the draft (SAR) to determine if the
AP II Resettlement Action Plan resulted in an increase of their living
standards.
Program Objective Categories
9.   Completion of the SRBC sub-project is relevant to the Bank's
poverty alleviation strategy as it would increase rural income in Andhra
Pradesh's economically-backward and drought-prone Rayalaseema Region.
The project focus on improved irrigation efficiency in SRSP is consis-
tent with the Bank's natural resource conservation objectives.
Status of Project Preparation
10. Preappraisal was completed during December 1994. Pending submis-
sion of the ERAPs, the retrofit survey and environmental impact
assessment reports, the project would be appraised in early September
1995.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



