THIRD ANDt-IRA PRADESH IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROJECT AFFECTED PERSONS
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION PROGRAMME
(PAPERP)
ACTION PLAN
GOVERNMENT OF ANDHRA PRADESH
IRRIGATION & CAD DEPARTMENT
HYDERABAD
MARCH, 1995



INCHARGE OFTHE DEPARTMENT:
Sri K. KOSALRAM, IAS
Pri. Secretary to Govt.
Irrigation & CAD Dept.
'J' Block, Secretariat
HYDERABAD
Phone Nos.:  232630 (Off)
316709 (Res)
Fax No.       233511
INCHARGE OF THE PROJECT
Sri P.K. Agarwal, IAS
Secretary (Projects)
Irrigation & CAD (PW) Dept
'J' Block, Secretariat
HYDERABAD
Phone Nos.   232529 (Off)
331400 (Res)
Fax No.       233511



CONTENTS
Si. No.          Ilemn                              Page No.
1.   Introduction                                      3
2.   Project and Objectives                            5
3.   Approach for R&R                                 12
4.   Direct & Indirect Benefils                       15
5.   Project Affected Area                            16
6.   Land and Property Aqcuisition                    19
7.   Project Affected Commnunity                      24
8.   Project Affected Persons                         30
9.   Adverse Impacts of land acquisition              33
10.   Enabling legislation for acquisition of land     34
11.   Environmental Impact Assesment                   35
12.   Patlicipalion of Pioject affected persons        36
13.   Aclion Plan                                      37
14.   Stragy for Impleinentation of Action Plan        42
15.   Inslifulional arrangerments                      43
16.    Monitoring and evaluation                        46
17.   Budget                                            47
18.   The Worik Plan                                    50
19.   List of Annexures                                51
20.   List of figures



INTRODUCTION
The State of Andhra Pradesh comprises three regions namely, Coastal, Telangana
and Rayalaseema. The economy of A.P. is predominantly agrarian; agriculture contributes
about 50% to the State's income and employs about 70% of the work force. Since agriculture
is the prime mover and hub of all economic activities, growth in economy is largely
dependent on continuous growth in agriculture and the removal of constraints thereto.
Government of Andhra Pradesh is striving to alleviate the sufferings of the people
in the state in general, and those in the drought prone areas, in particular. Rayalaseema
and Telangana regions being the State's most backward and drought prone regions, the
impact of irrigation on the poorest people would be significant and development will be
substantial, once water reaches these areas. Hence Rayalaseema and Telangana regions
of the State were chosen for providing irrigation benefits under two sub projects viz.,
Srisailam Right Branch Canal (SRBC) Scheme and Sriramsagar (SRS) Scheme under
the Second A.P. Irrigation Project.
1.1 SECOND A.P. IRRIGATION PROJECT
The Second A.P. Irrigation Project was taken up with the financial assistance of
World Bank to the tune of SDR 127.5 M (US $140 M as on 1986) as credit and US $ 131
M as loan. The project was planned to be completed in a duration of seven and half years
i.e., from June 1986 to December 31, 1993 with the credit/loan closing date as June 30,
1994. The main objective of the project was to increase agriculture production and farmers
income in the command area of both the projects; (i) SRBC (65,000 ha) and (ii) Sriramsagar
(SRS) Kakatiya Canal Command (modernisation of 1,65,000 ha and development of
1,63,000 ha).
The main components of the project were:
!. SRBC Sub-Project
1. SRB Canal from the Banakacherla Regulator to the Gorakallu bypass
structure.
2. The Gorakallu Bypass structure
3. SRB Canal beyond the Gorakallu Bypass structure for about 100 Km (ending
Km 141.0).
II. SRS Sub-Project
1. Upgrading and completion of conveyance works of Kakatiya Canal Command
between Km 0- 146
2. Completion and new conveyance works of the Kakatiya Canal Command
between Km 146 - 267.
3. Excavation of the tail section of the Kakatiya Canal to serve as an escape
(Km 267 - 284).
Though the project implementation improved very much in the last two and half
years i.e., 1992-93 onwards, the project could not be completed in full by June 30, 1994
because of earlier slippages in the project implementation. Though the overall physical
progress to end of June 1994 was only 30% (SRBC 38% and SRS 21%), since the
3



achievement under certain connected activities was nearly full the project would have
been able to irrigate in 1996-97 i.e., with an extension of three years.
1.2 NECESSITY OF THIRD A.P. IRRIGATION PROJECT
Since the objectives of the Second A.P. Irrigation Project could not be achieved due to non
completion of the project it is felt desirable not to leave or delay the project in the present
half - finished and inoperable state but to find additional investment needed to complete
the works early and realise the potential created by past investments and assist for increased
agricultural production and improve the economy of the backward regions of Andhra
Pradesh.
The Third A.P. Irrigation Project thus contemplates to complete the spill overworks
of the Second A.P. Irrigation Project at the earliest to generate the benefits contemplated.
4



THE PROJECT AND OBJECTIVES
2.1. SRISAILAM RIGHT BRANCH CANAL
2.1.1. Introduction:
The Srisailam Right Branch Canal (SRBC) draws its water from Srisialam Reservoir,
built across Krishna river. An approach channel has been provided within the reservoir to
supply water at the Pothireddypadu Regulator. A right main canal takes off from the
regulator, traverses a length of 16.34 km through Mittakandala deep cut (the ridge between
Krishna and Pennar basins) upto Banakacharla Regulator. SRBC takes off from the right
of the regulator to provide irrigation to an area of 65,000 ha in Kurnool District. The
service area is almost rectangular in shape with a length of 130 km and a width of 5 to 10
km. There is no irrigation in the first 50 km upto Gorakallu Bypass. Below the Bypass, the
canal traverses a length of 64 km before joining the Owk reservoir through a 1.89 km long
tunnel. The canal then extends to km 141 to provide irrigation to an area of 65000 ha.
Location map and Index plan of SRBC sub-project are shown in Fig 1 & 2. The components
of the project are as follows:
i)   SRB Canal from the Banakacherla Regulator to the Gorakallu Bypass
Structure, for a length of 50.753 Km.
ii)  The Gorakallu bypass structure.
iii)  SRB canal from the Gorakallu bypass structure to Owk Reservoir.
iv)  Owk tunnel from km 113.525 to 115.584.
v)   Owk Reservoir from km 115.584 to 119.5
vi)  Major distributory from km 119.5 to 141.
vii) Distributory Network in Block I to XVI.
viii) Feeder Road network.
2.1.2. Geology:
The main geological formations in the project area comprise the Nandyal shales,
Koilkuntla limestones, Panyam quartzites, Owk shales, Narji limestones and Banaganapalli
quartzites. The hill ranges along the western boundary in Banaganapalli mandal consist
of quartzite overlying calcarious shales. In the Kunderu plain limestones and shales
predominate.
2.1.3. Physiography:
85% of the command area is nearly plain with slope of less than 1 %. The rest of the
command is very gently sloping with slopes of 1-3%. Physiographically, the area can be
divided into three main units viz., hills, gently undulating plains and valleys. The hills are
residual relief features comprising quartzites and limestones. The quartzite hills are gently
dipping and are underlain by shales and limestones with escarpment on western side and
a gentle dip towards east terminating into a plain. Elsewhere, gently dipping quartzites are
surrounded by plains all around. The plains are vast stretches of land which occupy 85%
of the command area. Many small streams traverse the plain forming narrow linear valleys
moderately to severely eroded and salt-affected lands are formed near the valleys. The
5



plains have very deep dark colour cracking type of clay soils. The valleys have weatheredl
transported material. Evidence of erosion in the form of sheet wash and rills can be
observed.
2.1.4  Soils:
The soils in the command are generally black cotton soils derived from lime stones
and shales with intrusions of quartzites and sand stones. 80% of the area is covered by
deep black cotton soils. About 83% of the soils are in irrigability class-l1, even as 95% of
the soils excluding hills are culturable.
2.1.5. Drainage:
The command area is drained by Kunderu river which is a tributary of the Pennar
flowing from Nallamala hills in the North to Erramala hills in the South. It is joined by many
local streams during its course, the important ones being the Jurreru and Paleru. The
drainage pattern of the command area is dendritic.
2.1.6  Climate:
The climate of the area is of temperate type with hot summers and mild winters.
The mean daily maximum temperature during winter is 300 C and minimum 17.50 C. The
mean daily maximum temperature during summer is 41.40 C and a minimum is 28.50 C.
The relative humidity varies from month to month and increases from 65% to 85% in
South-West monsoons. It is less than 65% in the rest of the year.
2.1.7. Rainfall:
The average annual rainfall in the SRBC Command area is 761 mm with a maximum
spread over of three months from July to September. Nearly 71% of the rainfall is received
during South-West monsoon (July to September) and 29% during the North-East monsoon
months of October to December. The lowest rainfall recorded in the command is 506 mm
at Owk which is very meagre for irrigated dry crops. The lowest rainfall in the last 90 years
(1901 - 1990) was 28 mm in 1920 and the heaviest rainfall 1070 mm in 1970.
2.1.8. Population:
The SRBC serves a major part of Kurnool district which has a total population of
2.97 million. 74.17% of the population is rural and the balance 25.83% urban. Cultivators
constitute 11.16% of thedistrictpopulationwhileagricultural labourers accountfor22.34%.
The population of the command area spread over 11 mandals comprising 102
villages is 0.26 million. Farm holders constitute 13.8% of the total population of the command
area. The marginal and small farm holders form a majority of 65.76% with marginal farmers
constituting the single largest group (38.29%). Between them, they hold 0.02 million ha
with an average land holding of 0.90 ha. The small farmers constitute 27.47% with an
average land holding of 1.44ha.
6



2.1.9. Agricultural Activity:
The SRBC will mainly cover areas on the west of Kundu river in Kurnool district and
a small part of the Cuddapah district comprising mandals which are traditionally drought
prone and most arid. There is Kurnool-Cuddapah canal on the east of Kurnool which was
constructed way back in 1872 and a more recent Low-level canal of Tungabhadra Project.
Besides, some medium irrigation works, wells and tanks serving parts of this area are
existing mostly on the east of Kundu river. Existing canals irrigate an area of 88814 ha,
wells provide irrigation to an area of 34018 ha while tube-wells irrigate 4978 ha. The
existing tanks benefit 14914 ha while other sources account for 7447 ha. The total irrigated
area is thus, 0.15 M ha out of the geographical area of 1.77 M ha which is less than 10%.
As per agricultural census the total cropped area in the district is only 47.5%.
The principal crops grown in the area in both the seasons are paddy, sorghum ragi,
setaria, chillies, groundnut, castor, cotton, tobacco, onions, mulberry, sunflower, banana
etc. Food crops occupy 48% of the cropped area while 52% are non-food crops. The
farmers are conversant with the use of fertilizers and manures.
2.1.10. OTHER ACTIVITIES
Industries:
Kurnool district has been famous for its craft of silk and cotton spinning, weaving
and bangle making. The district has a fairly large number of big-size industries as compared
to other districts of Rayalaseema region, producing minerals, cement, fertilizers. There
are a few spinning mills, in the district while handloom weaving, tanning and leather
industries have developed under small scale category. There were 456 factories in the
district (Kurnool) in 1990-91 with a fixed capital of Rs.635 millions.
Mining:
Kurnool district under SRBC abounds in mineral wealth but much headway does
not seem to have been made in its exploitation. The important minerals are limestone,
iron ore, barytes, copper, lead, slate, steatite, mica, sulphur, calcite and zinc. Production
figures for iron ore and limestone in 1990-91 are 17,000 tonnes and 3,17,000 tonnes
respectively.
Pisciculture:
The districts under the two sub-projects used to be good fish production centres
but currently pisciculture has ceased to be an important occupation. The GOAP, through
its various programmes is, however, promoting adoption of pisciculture in a scientific way.
Since last one year efforts are being made to improve pisciculture in Kurnool District.
The seed production during 1993-94 is Rs.66.1 millions against the target of Rs.66 millions.
All help is being rendered by leasing tanks to Fishermen Co-operative Society for stocking
fish and to take up fish culture to improve economic condition of the fishermen.
7



Forestry:
Kurnool district pertaining to SRBC has a total of 8375 Sq. Km of reserved forest
area producing timber worth Rs. 23 millions, firewood/charcoal Rs.3.4 millions bamboos
Rs.6.94 millions and Beedi leaves Rs.7.6 millions (1990-91) besides other minor produce.
There is a well established forest organisation taking care of protection, development
and management of the forests in the districts.
2.1.11. OBJECTIVES AND NEED FOR R&R
Srisailam Right Branch Canal envisages irrigation of 65,000 ha of land in 12 Mandals
of chronically drought affected areas of Kurnool District. In order to irrigate these areas,
water need to be conveyed from Srisailam reservoir which necessitates excavation of
main canal and distributory net work.
The construction of main canal and distributory net work along with the ayacut road
system require either land acquisition from project affected persons or resumption of
Government land or forest land enroute, the system. The land acquisition including houses
Ihouse plots and resumption of Government and forest land might result in either
displacement or families getting affected due to acquisition of their land which is the main
source of livelihood in most of the cases. This acquisition of land or displacement may
necessitate rehabilitation or resettlement and rehabilitation .
2.2. SRS - KAKATIYA CANAL COMMAND
2.2.1  Introduction
The Kakatiya Canal takes off from Srramsagar Dam across Godavari at Pochampad,
about 200 km from Hyderabad. After traversing about 146 km, the canal outfalls into
Lower Manair dam built across river Manair. The canal extends from the opposite flank of
the dam to 284 km. The canal, in its reach from km 0 - 146 provides irrigation to an area
of 1,65,000 ha. The command area below Lower Manair Dam (LMD) is 1,63,000 ha. The
command area lies in 66 mandals of Nizamabad, Karimnagar, Warangal and Khammam
districts. The Lower Manair Dam serves as a balancing reservoir. A location map and
Index map of Kakatiya Canal are shown in Fig 3 and 4 respectively.
The important components are as follows:
i. Upgrading and completion of conveyance works of the kakatiya Canal
Command from km 0 to 146.
ii. Completion and new conveyance works of Kakatiya Canal Command between
km 146 and 267.
iii. Excavation of the tail section of the Kakatiya Canal . (between km 267 and
284) to serve as escape.
iv. Feeder road net work.
8



2.2.2 Geology:
Geologically, the command area may be divided into Alluvial deposits along the
Godavari and the Manair rivers; Gondwana formations along the NW-SE Godavari graben
or faulted through consisting of sand stones, red clays and shales. Purana rocks, Pahhela
formations which are seen exposed in a main fault trending along the Godavari at
Ramagundam and consist of limestones with shale intercalations. The Archeans which
are main rocks consist of granite, gneisses and schists. Besides quartzite dykes are also
observed across the granite complex in several directions.
2.2.3. Physiography:
The command area presents a picture of gently undulating plain dotted by hills.
The general height of the plateau ranges from 200-350 m above mean sea level and
slopes gently towards the Godavari. 79% of the command area above LMD and 93 % of
the command lower down has slopes of less than 1 percent.
Physiographically the area may be divided into three main landscape units viz.,
rugged landscape, undulating landscape and gently sloping landscape. The rugged
landscape occurs in the west and north of Karimnagar. The undulating landscape occurs
in the east of Karimnagar and the south of the Manair river. It consists of moderately to
gently undulating uplands with isolated residual hills interfluves and narrow valleys. The
gently sloping land scape is in the flood plains of the Godavari and its tributaries between
Peddapalli to Mahboobabad in north-west-south-east directions. These gently sloping
plains support deep red and black soils.
2.2.4  Soils
The soils in the command are derived from two parent rocks - black soils of granitic
origin and red soils of sandstone origin. Detailed soil surveys have been carried out in
1963-75. Recently the Andhra Pradesh Remote Sensing Application Centre, Hyderabad
has also attempted to interpret the soils through satellite imagaries. 14 mapping units
have been identified using the available information. Land irrigability classification has
also been done. About 93% of the area is irrigable. 70% of the command area is classified
under class-ll.
2.2.5  Drainage:
The command area is drained by the tributaries of the Godavari and the Krishna
rivers. Peddavagu, Salivagu, Morancha vagu and the Manair are the important tributaries
of the Godavari draining the command.
The drainage pattern in the area shows distinctly the three types such as dendritic,
trellis and parallel to sub-parallel.
2.2.6  Climate:
The climate of the command area is tropical, characterised by hot summer and dry
winter. The mean daily maximum temperature during summer is 410C and minimum
28oC. The mean daily maximum temperature during winter is 300C while the mean daily
minimum temperature is about 1 50C. The relative humidity of the area is generally high
during the southwest monsoon period. The rest of the year, it is dry.
9



2.2.7  Rainfall:
The average annual rainfall in the command area varies between 900 mm and
1100 mm. About 81% of the annual rainfall is received during the southwest monsoon
period of June to September and the rest during the northeast monsoon and summer
period. The mean annual rainfall at Jagtial, Ramagundam, Manthani, Sultanabad and
Karimnagar are 1170, 1133, 1095, 1025 and 1033 mm while for stations below LMD it is
876, 878, 959 and 1106 mm at Huzurabad, Warangal, Parkal and Mehaboobabad
respectively.
2.2.8  Population:
The Kakatiya Canal under SRS Project serves parts of the three districts of
Nizamabad, Karimnagar and Warangal with population of 2.04 million, 3.04 million and
2.82 million respectively 73% of the population is rural. Cultivators constitute about 15.2%
of the total population of the three districts. Agricultural labourers account for another
17.40%.
The total population in the project area is 4.05 million. The farm population constitute
70% of the total project population. They hold 0.70 M ha (an average of 1.22 ha per farm
holder). 62 percent of the farm holders are marginal with average land holding of 0.44 ha.
Small farmers constitute the next largest group 22% with average land holding of 1.40 ha.
Other categories which constitute 16% of the total, farm holders occupy 53% of the area,
an average of 0.69 ha per farm holder. Districtwise the percentage of farm holdings vary
from 16.70% in Nizamabad, 14.7% in Karimnagarto 12.6% in Warangal.
2.2.9  Agricultural Activity:
The economy of the state in general and the sub-project in particular, is agriculture
based.
The command area of SRS project is in the drought prone Telangana region. Around
80% of the rainfall (700 mm) is received in June-September which is highly erratic both in
terms of time and space. Before the construction of SRS, most of the area was rainfed
barring small patches under a few tanks and wells. Construction of SRS Dam and canal
system in part has brought considerable benefits to the area although the full benefit is yet
to be realised. Increase in yield is also observed.
2.2.1 0 Other Activities:
Industries:
Telangana region of the state is industrially backward and there are hardly any
industries in either Karimnagar or Warangal district covered by SRS. There are some
factories based on mining and/or forest produces. There were 1664 registered factories
between them which work out to be 13.3% of the state while the districts occupy 14.8% of
the area.
At present there are about 325 Nos. of Agro based industries such as seed
processing, food products, tobacco products, Rice mills and Oil industries etc. in the region.
10



Mining:
Telangana region of the state has some mineral resources besides coal in
Ramagundam region of Karimnagar district. The production of coal during 1990-91 from
this region reached a level of 7 million tonnes, nearly 40% of the state's total production.
Some other minerals are also being extracted. Limestones were taken out to the extent of
I million tonnes (10% of the state) in Karimnagar district.
Forestry:
A well established forest organisation is taking care of protection, development
and management of the forest in the districts.
2.2.11 OBJECTIVES AND NEED FOR R&R
The project aims at modernisation of command to an extent of 1,65,000 ha above
the LMD and development of 1,63,000 ha below LMD. The acquisition of land required for
the development of new command below LMD upto Km 267 including the distributory net
work, took place long back and works constructed prior to AP-II. Land acquisition especially
for completion of balance conveyance works between Km 267 and 284 and distributory
net work viz., DBM 31, DBM 37, DBM 38, DBM 40, DBM 42 to 47 and DBM 48 (part) might
have affected the people which require either rehabilitation or resettlement and
rehabilitation.
11



APPROACH FOR RESETTLEMENT & REHABILITATION
Since land acquisition is going to affect large nurnber of people, Government of AP
has taken all preventive measures to avoid large scale displacement and minimise the
hardship. In view of this, though the Government of A.P. proposed to construct reservoirs
such as Gorakallu and also to raise the FRL of Owk Reservoir to 227 m level under
S.R.B.C., these proposals have been dropped to avoid likely displacement of people.
Other sub-project (SRSP) also does not contain any Reservoirs in the reaches involved,
and may not involve any involuntary displacement. Therefore the new Project does not
envisage major involuntary displacement other than ones that have already taken place
under A.P. 11 Irrigation Project. However there may be people who might have not been
displaced but have been economically affected by the acquisition of lands for canal and
road net work. With a view to assist such affected persons underA.P. Ill Irrigation Project,
Government of Andhra Pradesh adopted a Policy for Economic rehabilitation of project
affected persons. Since the action plan envisages economic assistance to the affected
people as per the Policy frame work and such other ameliorative measures, the action
plan for the project is designated as Project Affected Persons Economic Rehabilitation
Programme.
In view of the importance of economic rehabilitation of the Project affected persons
and in order to have smooth progress of works, and need for arranging continuity of flow
of funds, following strategy of finalisation of PAPERP for A.P. Ill is adopted.
1. Conducting Socio Economic Survey of the persons from whom land has
been acquired or persons affected indirectly by the construction of Main
Canal.
2. Conducting Socio Economic Survey for the affected persons due to land
acquisition already completed and people likely to be affected under
distributories and related activities in Block-IV and Vil of S.R.B.C.
3. Preparing the Action Plan for the Main Canal of S.R.B.C. and Block IV and
Vil of S.R.B.C.
4. Extrapolating the results of Socio Economic Survey of Block IV and Vil to
remaining blocks namely Block 1, 11, Ill, V to VIl and IX to XVI.
5. Arriving at the financial projections for the remaining Blocks of S.R.B.C.
6. Based on the results of S.R.B.C. Projections, preparation of financial outlay
for the PAPERP of SRSP.
As indicated above the present action plan mainly deals with Main Canal and Block
IV and Vil of SRBC and financial projections for the rest of the Blocks and SRSP, based
on the above study results.
3.1  SOCIO ECONOMIC STUDY:
In order to study in depth the adverse impact of the Project construction on the
community and the people affected due to acquisition of lands, including patta, revenue
and forest lands together with the possibility of finding the availability of land for providing
asset based assistance and options based on the perception of the affected people, Tribal
Cultural Research & Training Institute (TCR & TI), Hyderabad has been entrusted with the
assignment of conducting detailed socio economic survey of the canal affected persons
12



as per the terms of reference under SRBC sub-project vide G.O.Ms.No.314 I & CAD
(PW) Dept. dated 2/12/1994. The socio economic survey is proposed to be conducted in
two phases namely (1) the completion of census survey of PAPs for land acquired upto
date under the main canal and a full census survey of all land to be acquired under the
ongoing works for Blocks IV and Vil of SRBC and (2) completion of surveys for PAPs
encompassing all lands still to be acquired/k A Project Affected Persons Economic
Rehabilitation Action Plan is proposed to be prepared for the first phase and a forecast'
indicative udgetfor the phase IL. (* in bcoth sub ?orojects and already as
acquired under s-T.)
3.2 METHODOLOGY OF SOCIO ECONOMIC STUDY:
Initially, extent of patta lands, Govt lands and forest lands have been ascertained
from L.A. records for the components of canals. In order to enable TCR & TI, Hyderabad
to conduct socio economic studies. The land acquisition details covering about 4172
awardees are collected from the land acquisition records of Special Collector, Kurnool
and computersed at National Informatice Centre (NIC), Hyderabad. The awardees are
spread over about 48 villages coming under twelve (12) mandals of Kurnool district. In
order to facilitate smooth, effective and timely completion of surveys, the Engineering
-Wing of the Project, Spl. Deputy Collector, Land Acquisition Unit and Mandal Revenue
Officers are pressed into service. All the district officials connected with land acquisition,
land records and the registration under the leadership of the District Collector, Kurnool
and Joint Collector and AddI. Dist. Magistrate, Kurnool were involved in conducting the
study in a time bound manner and furnishing the data required by them.
The survey was conducted during the period from 5/12/94 to 5/1/95, in the first leg
covering the affected persons under the main canal and the people affected in Block IV
and Vil during the second leg of survey from 9/1/95 to 24/1/95. A team of investigators
were again sent to the field to cover left over cases during 3.3.95 to 14.3.95. The survey
was conducted by 8 teams besides another team of women investigators. The services of
four specialists including a woman sociologist who are experts in respective fields are
also utilised. The survey operations were conducted under the control of the Director,
TCR & TI, Hyderabad, A P Organisational chart of the study team - and schedule of study
is given in Annexure II. -The village wise coverage of survey is given in annexure
III and III-A.
A well designed schedule has been canvassed among the affected persons in the
villages by door to door interviews. The participatory rural appraisal method has been
adopted for ascertaining the details and perceptions of the affected persons.
The consultants during the field visit in three spells could contact 2876 Project
Affected Families under main canal and 1092 under Block I V & VIII, as against the number
of awardees indicated as4172 under main canal and 1224 under Block IV & Vil as per
the Revenue Records and LP Schedules prepared by the Department. Out of them
schedules of 240families could be canvassed under main canal and 708 under Block IV
& VilI. Following are the reasons for the difference between number of awardees as per
the LA records and number of schedules that could be canvassed by the consultants.
1. Coverage of some awardees in more than one award because of acquisition
of his land probably situated at different locations
2. Some of the awardees settled elsewhere and could not be contacted.
3. Some of the awardees refused to furnish the information and hence could
not be covered.
13



4. Some of the awardees were not available during the survey and could not
be covered.
5. Some awardees whose whereabouts are not known and hence could not
be collected.
The socio economic survey in SRBC command including Block IV & Vil have
been completed and after due analysis of the data, the consultants have finalised their
report. Depending on the outcome of the analysis, the conclusions were arrived at and
recommendations made by the consultants. Based on this and keeping in view, the policy
of the Govt. of Andhra Pradesh, the action plan for project affected persons economic
rehabilitation programme has been prepared.
14



DIRECT AND INDIRECT BENEFITS TO PROJECT AFFECTED
PERSONS UNDER SRBC.
The Project area depending on the Irrigation benefits can be divided into 2 Sectors.
The first Sector comprises of Main Canal in 17 villages in Pamulapadu, Joopadu Bunglow,At mckWr
Midthur and Gadivemula Mandals of the Project in which there is no provision for irrigation
facilities. The second sector comprises of 31 villages in Panyam, Nandyal, Banaganapalli,
Owk, Koilkuntla, Kolimigundla and Sanjamala Mandals in which all the villages from whom
land is being acquired are getting benefitted by the creation of irrigation facilities of SRBC.
The sector wise villages are given in Annexure I.
There are number of direct and indirect benefits with the construction of project.
The important benefits are as follows:
1.   HIGHER YIELDS:
The project would increase the cropping intensity from 103% to 157% and
introduction of irrigation would increase the yield. Higher yields and increased irrigation
intensity would result in higher agricultural production, leading to higher income and
consequent improvement in standard of living.
2.  STABILISATION OF AGRICULTURE:
Since the project is going to remove the uncertainity of raising crops in the drought
affected famine stricken areas, the agriculture is expected to be stabilised, thus leading to
drought proofing in the project area.
3. EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES:
Large scale employment opportunities are generated both during the construciton
and after completion of the project due to increased cropping intensity.
4. ADDITIONAL WATER RESOURCES:
The proposed irrigation system would convey about 19 TMC of water in the project
command. The annual gross ground water recharge in the project area will be of the
magnitude of 116.65 MCM out of which 99.17 MCM can be annually utilisable. This would
improve ground water availability in the command.
5.  FISHERIES AND AGRICULTURAL RESOURCES:
The construction of reservoirs would provide substantial potential for fish farming.
6.  ADDITIONAL HABITAT FOR AQUATIC WILD LIFE:
The increase in the water spread area will accrue an additional habitat for aquatic
wild life including migratory birds and resident species.
7. RECREATION AND TOURISM POTENTIAL:
Owk reservoir which is on the way to Puttaparthy, a piligrimage centre can be
developed for small scale tourist spot.
8. OTHER SOCIO ECONOMIC BENEFITS:
Completion of the project will improve the quality of life in the command through
sustainable agricultural development and results in food security in the command.
15



PROJECT AFFECTED AREA
SRBC starts from Banakaclierla cross regulator in pamulapadu Mandal and
terminates at km 141 after traversing through a bypass at Gorakallu valley and a balancing
reservoir at Owk valley. The total commatnd of the project is divided into 16 blocks covering
48 villages in 12 Mandals of Kurnool District. The village wise, Mandal-wise details of
Land acquired under the project for the main canal and for the Block IV & VIII are given in
Annexure IV & V.
5.1. MAIN CANAL
As seen from the table, there are total 48 villages which are affected due to land
acquisition for the project. As per the Socio-economic survey 2873awardees were covered
out of4172 under main canal and 1092 were covered out of 1224 under Block IV & VIII.
Thus,socio-economic profiles of 74% of the awardees were collected and analysed for the
extent of land acquisition and its impact in the project area. As per the socio economic
survey, an extent of 3732.582 acres of private land has been acquired from out of total
land of 18,667.69 acres held by the land owners under main canal. In other words, about
20% of the land holding was acquired on an average from the project affected families.
Similarly, an extent of 414.19 acres of Government assigned land was resumed from the
project affected families from out of 687.905 acres held by them. In other words, 60% of
the assigned holding hield by the project affected persons was resumed for the project.
Further 102 houses have been acquired, thus displacing 102 families by the project. Out
of the displaced families, 97 belonged to a hamlet of Vanala village in Pamulapadu Mandal
and remaining five are from different villages. About 17 irrigation wells have been acquired
including 13 handpumps and 11 other structures suchi as pump shed etc., from the Project
Affected Persons.
5.2.  BLOCK IV & VilI
The distributory network covers 4 Mandals and 12 villages in which land is proposed
to be acquired from 1224 land hiolders. Out of whiich 1092 have been covered by the socio
economic survey, thiat comes to 89% of the project affected families. An extent of 339.64
acres of private patta land has been acquired out of 8372.06 acres held by the project
affected persons. In other words 4% of the land holding will be acquired on an average
from the Project Affected Families. Similarly, 42.57 acres of assigned land will be acquired
out of the total holding of 126.09 acres which comes to 33% of the assigned land holding.
About 3 houses will be acquired under Block IV & Vil in addition to three other small
structures.
5.3. IMPACT OF THE PROJECT ON SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE.
5.3.1.  Agricultiral linfrastructure:
In view of rain fed agriculture, presently existing in the area, the agricultural
infrastructure such as input supply centres, farm machinery service centres etc., are scarce
in the project area. Based on thie aiialysis of the existing infrastructure, it works-out that
only 5% of the command villages have seed depots within the village and 1 1% of them are
at a distance of 1 to 5 Kms, 46% of them are at a distance of 6 to 15 KMs and balance
beyond 15 KMs. Similarly, 10 % of the villages alone have fertiliser and pesticide depots
within the village, 20 % have at a distance of 1 to 5 KMs, 70% at a distance of more than
6 KMs.
16



Due to the advent of the project, agriculture infrastructure facilities are bound to be
improved due to sheer demand supply forces and the project is going to have positive
impact towards these amenities. The project is also going to open up new research avenues
in the nearby research stations and throw up innumerable training opportunities for Krishi
Vignana Kendra at Nandyal and Banaganapalli.
5.3.2. Animal Husbandry:
There are three veterinary hospitals and 18 Livestock Supervisory units and 55
rural Livestock Units in the command which are in no way affected by the project. The
demands for these facilities are bound to increase after completion of the project because
of the obvious reasons. More and more Villages are going to have exclusive Veterinary
hospitals/Livestock supervisory units/ Rural Livestock Units after the completion of the
project, as against very low levels of infrastructure as existing now.
5.3.3. Roads and Transport:
The roads and transport are life lines of economy of any area. The analysis of the
area indicates that 89% of the villages are connected by pucca roads and road transport.
Moolasagaram and panyam are also connected by rail. The project is in no way
going to effect the road and transport infrastructure adversely and in converse the ayacut
road net work which is the component of the project going to improve the communication
facilities and better access to all the villages of the command. The access of the villages
are in no way going to be affected by the main canal and the distributories, as the existing
passages and approaches are protected by constructing either single lane or double lane
bridges. As reported elsewhere, there are about 40 single lane and double lane bridges
aiding the project villages to commute and communicate.
5.3.4.  Medical, Public healthi and Drikiing Water:
The socio economic survey of the project area has revealed that all the villages
have drinking water source in the form of a open well or tubewell. The protected water
supply is available in 15 villages of the project area. Due to the excavation of the main
canal, especially at higher contours, where the depth of excavation is high, has affected
the ground water table in the area, resulting in problems of drinking water availability in the
adjoining villages especially during summer. This problem is a temporary phenomenon of
the project . Vibrant agricultural activity is going to provide immense job opportunities for
the rural folk.
As seen from the above, the project construction is going to have positive impact
rather than negative effects within and around the command. The people living outside
the command, especially nearby areas such as Nandikotkur, Nandyal, Kurnool etc. would
also be getting benefited after completion of the project in view of increased agricultural
productivity and supply of raw material for Agro based industries and with release of water
in the main canal the ground water recharge would replenish the depleted ground water
table and would help in making drinking water available throughout the year. However,
during the construction, the Panchayat Raj DepartrTient of Govt. of A.P. has takenup series
of deep tube wells and borewells in order to reduce the problem of drinking water availability.
The project area is served by two hospitals, one at Nandyal and another at Koilakuntla.
Primary Health Centres are located at Gadivemula, Panyarn1, Maddur, Moolasagaram,
Owk and Perusomala and dispensaries at Jaiakanur, Durvesi, Maddur, Moolasagaram
17



and sub-centres at Gorakallu, Panyam, Banaganapalli, Alamur, Mettupalli, Singanapalli
and Owk. Number of private Medical practitioners are available in many of the villages. In
addition to this, Community health centres are located in about 17 villages of the project
area. The project has no adverse impact regarding the accessibility of these facilities to
the project affected community.
5.3.5.  Education and Communication Infrastructure:
The socio economic study reveals that all the villages are served by primary
schools and there are more than one school in 17 villages of the project area. High schools
are present in 12 villages of the project area and Junior Colleges at Panyam, Banaganapalli
and Koilakuntla. Since the command is nearby to the major towns, such as Nandikotkur,
Nandyal and Banaganapalli, most of the project affected villages are being served by the
Educational institutions available in these towns. The project is having no adverse impact
with respect to accessability of the Educational infrastructure.
All villages, except three namely Chennamukkapalli, Thirupadu and Obulapuram
are connected by postal facility and 15 villages are connected by Telegraph facility.
These facilities are not affected by the project construction and in converse it is going to
improve the above facilities.
5.3.6. Access to Banks and Agricultural Co-Op Societies:
Commercial banks are available in 12 villages of the project area and 14 are
situated within a distance of 1 to 5Kms from these banks. Reset of the villages are served
by the banks from a distance of more than 5 Kms. The agricultural co-operative societies
are located in 16 villages and another 16 villages are served by a primary Co-op societies
from a distance beyond 6 kms. The project is in no way going to affect adversely with
regard to availing the project construction activity has created a vibrant economy in and
around these villages which would throw up more and more self-employment opportunities
for the youth in the project affected area after completion.
18



THE LAND AND PROPERTY ACQUISITION
6.1. THE PROCESS OF LAND ACQUISITION:
The land acquired for construction of the canal system is identified by the Engineering
wing of the SRBC and requisition for acquiring the required lands duly furnishing the
necessary information in the requisition forms about the extent and survey numbers and
villages of the lands required for the construction of the SRBC project will be sent to the
Special Collector, Land Acquisition of the projects, Kurnool. On receipt of the requisition
the Land Acquisition Officer (LAO) will depute his surveyor of the said land and
structures there on and fix peg marks, and report to the Land Acquisition Officer about
the correct survey numbers along with sub-division records with sketches of the land/
structures proposed for acquisition. Then sub-division  records  are sent to the
Deputyinspector of Survey forverification and attestation ofthesame. Thereafter
the Land acquisition Officer will call for copies of adangal (Record of Rights),
RSR,10(1) Account and Land ceiling records of the concerned land to verify whether
the land required is Govt. land, patta land and the ownership of patta land. If it is patta
land, it is also to be verified whether the pattadar is attracted by Land Reforms Act,
(AgricultureLandCeilingAct). Afterverification of all the above mentioned records,
the Land Acquisition Officer prepares a draft notification under Sec.4(1) of Land
Acquisition Act 1894.  A  draft declaration  showing the particulars of land, its
classification, structures if any, trees if any, existing on the land is prepared after
inspecting the said land along with the Surveyor and Engineering staff etc., under
the section 6 of Land Acquisition Act 1894. The LA Officer submits the draft notification
and declaration proposals to the Special Collector, (LA) Kurnool for his approval
and for onward transmission to the Government for their approval and causing
its publication in the District Gazettee. If the land is urgently required for acquisition for
the project, the LA Officer submits draft notification and draft declaration simultaneously.
There are three ways of causing publication of draft notification and draft declaration
1. by publication in two local dailies of regional languages through
Commissioner of Information and Public Relations ofGovernmentof Andhra
Pradesh.
2. by publication in the district Gazettee by the SpI. Collectorand
3. by issuing a public notification in thevillage.
And all the three modes of publication are compulsory for every acquisition.
The last date of  publication of the draft notification and draft declaration is considered
for the purpose of LA Act. Then the Land Acquisition Officer will call for the land sales
statistics, relating to the village from the Sub-Registrar of the Rigistration Department to
examine the trend from the market rates for the village concerned. Simultaneously the
LAO issues notices under section 9(3) and 10 of Land Aqcuistion Act to the concerned
parties for award enquiry.
There will be fifteen days gap between the date of service of notice and the
date of enquiry. The LAO will fix up the market value of the land on the basis of sale
transactions of the lands of similar category held during the period of three years
preceeding the date of the last publication of the draft notification. The LAO will thus fix
up the market value of the lands and submit the preliminary valuation statements
showing the details of the rates fixed and the reasons there of to the Special
19



Collector, LA for his approval. The Special Collector, LA will inspect the lands under
sale transactions registered preceeding the last three years to verify the proximity and
fertility etc., and approves the preliminary valuation statement submitted by the LAO,
with due modifications if any. The LAO after completing the award enquiry will verify the
revenue records to ascertain the persons in possession of the land and ownership of
the same. He will then send draft award to the Sub-Collector for approval of the same.
After the draft award is approved by the special Collector, the LAO processes the award
under the section 1 of the L.A.Act in the capacity of Collector,and pays the compensation
to the awardees in the form of cheques. The award has to be passed within the period
of two years from the date of publication of draft notification. Otherwise, the draft
notification is deemed to have been lapsed. Thirty percent of the market value of the
land is payable towards solatium under Section 23(1) of the LAAct and 12% additional
market value under Section 23(1) from the date of notification to the date of award or
taking possesion of land whichever is earlier. Under section 28 of LA Act interest is
payable @ 15% thereafter from the date of taking possesion of the land or till the
award or the proposed date of payment. The awardee is intimated the fact of passing of
the award. Under the section 12(2) of LA Act showing the amounts awarded. In case
the awardee is not satisfied with the compensation amount awarded to him, he receives
the award amount underprotest and files a petition before the LAO under section 18 of
the LA Act for refering the case to the civil court for proper adjudication within six weeks
from the date of the passing of the award under section 12(2).
The total extent of land required for the SRBC Main Canal including Owk reservoir
comes to 3676 ha. In addition to this an extent of 154.74 ha will be acquired for block IV
& Vill. Land acquired under the SRBC Main Canal and proposed to be acquired under
block IV & VIII are presented in the annexure VI .The village wise details of other
acquisitions such as homestead land, houses, pumpsheds, wells, trees, crops etc., are
presented in the Annexure VIl.
Whenever the assigned Government lands are resumed for the purpose of the
project, the affected people will be paid compensation as per the standing orders vide
G.O.Ms No.1307, dated 23-12-1993 by a seperate proceedings. Whenever structures
of the encroachers of Government land is resumed, reasonable exgratia payment
is made to compensate the cost of such structures. Under SRBC Project, the land
has been acquired for constructing the main canal, distributories, road net work and Owk
balancing reservoir. Since the project is on going and part of the works have been
completed, majority of the land required for the project is already acquired.
The Government has fixed the cut-off date, for inclusion of major children as
project affected persons, as the date of 4(1) notification under LA Act. However , in the
present case, since the part of the land has already been acquired long time back on
different dates, spreading from the year 1985 till date, the age for considering major
children has been taken as the time of conducting Socio economic survey. This is the
most liberalistic view of Government of Andhra Pradesh in order to ensure that the
affected people will be economically rehabilitated irrespective of the date of 4(1)
notification.
6.1.1. Fixing valuation of Land, Structures, Trees etc.:
The acquisition for construction of the Project involved acquiring houses, wells,
handpumps and other structures besides the land. In addition to the land 109
houses, 17 wells, 13 handpumps and 11 other structures have been acquired for the
purpose. The detailed breakup of trees and crops are not available as they are clubbed
20



alongwith the total compensation while passing the award. For fixing the valuation of
land, structures or any other items such as wells, trees etc., the date of 4(1) notification
will be taken for deciding the market value. 1The market value of land will be fixed depending
on the sales statistics of similarly situated lands in the nearest area possible by duly
gathering the sales statistics from the Registration Department. To this market value,
an amount of 30% solatium will be added to compensate the compulsory nature of
acquisition and 12% of additional market value will be paid from the date of 4(1)
Notification till the date of award or till the date of taking possession whichever is
earlier. Interest at the rate of 15% will be paid from the date of taking possession
of the land till payment of compensation. The valuation of structures will be done based
on the norms fixed by the Engineering Department which will be updated from time
totime. The values are fixed by taking thetypeofstructure, time of construction
and quality of materials used for the construction etc., and total amount will be calculated
for the total plinth area. The valuation for trees will be fixed based on the norms
fixed by the Agriculture Department which basically depends on the age of the tree and
number of trees and the production of the trees in future. Compensation forthe
crop, since it is one time matter will be decided by taking the stage of the crop growth
and type of crop, by the LAO while valuation of the land.
6.1.2. Details of Appeals Pending:
As per the Land Acquisition Act, the land owners receiving the amount under
protest at the time of passing of award can request within 6 weeks from passing the
award to refer their cases to the Sub-court in order to decide appropriate compensation.
The LAOs will be filing the Section 18 reference cases to the Sub-courts as and
when the request received from the Awardees. As seen from the socio economic
study conducted in the project area, there are about 1729 cases filed in various courts,
out of 3517 awardees,ofwhom331 caseshavebeendecidedbytheCourts, enhancing
the land compensation fixed by the Land Acquisition Officer concerned. In these 331
cases, the award amount of Rs. 90.63 lakhs paid by the LAO while passing the award
has been enhanced by the Courts to 285.94 lakhs. Depending on the reasonableness
of the Court order, the Government decides to file appeals against the lower court
order or pays the enhanced amount in the court, which will be withdrawn by the awardqes.
Though the process of litigation is a long drawn process, every landholder, who is aggrieved
of lower compensation have got right to go to the Court and get the compensation
enhanced based on due enquiry by the Court. In such cases, the Government will
be paying interest on the total compensation till the decretal amount is deposited in
the Court as per the directions of the respective court. Village-wise details of court
cases pending, cases decided and enhanced compensation are given in annexure VilI
6.1.3. Details of Other Lands:
In addition to the private land acquired for the purpose of the project,
Government lands have also been resumedforthepurpose. Asdescribed elsewhere
an extent of 414.19 acres of Government land has been resumed for constructing the
main canal and 42.57 acres under Block IV and Vil.  In addition to this, an extent
of 726 acres of Government poramboke land which is free of any occupation has
been resumed for the construction of the project. Similarly, an extent of 664 acers of
forest land has been takenover for the construction of the project, for which a
compensatory afforestation plan is prepared as described elsewhere. Except these
lands, no other poramboke or common lands have been acquired for the project. The
21



Govemment land which is under occupation of the people in various villages has been
resumed by a separate proceedings by paying compensation as per the existing
norms ie., as per the G.O.Ms.No.1307, dated 23-12-1993 TheotherGovernment
poramboke land has been resumed and suitable mutations will be affected in the revenue
records in order to show the transfer to Irrigation Department. As far as forest land is
concerned, the possession will be takenover depending upon the requirement of
construction of the project and the title, still will be vested with the Forest Dept. For the
purpose of land acquisition the assigned lands have also been taken on the similar lines
of acquisition of private lands, but, for the difference in procedure of acquisition. For
the purpose of preparation of package for their resettlement and rehabilitation,
they have been treated at par and as if private land has been acquired from them.
Therefore, for the sake of convenience, all other discussions and action plan have been
drawn without treating them separately. Except the people covred in the action plan, no
other person is living as encroacher on the remaining Government poramboke land.
The socio economic survey has also indicated that no customary or traditional rights have
been affected due to the acquisition for the project.
6.1.4. Utilisation of Compensation:
Since Land Acquisition has been completed over a period of time and the
compensation received by the land holders must have spent for various purposes. The
study of pattern of utilisation of compensation indicate the priorities and the needs of
awardees. This would also reveal whether the compensation has been used for productive
purposes. The pattern of spending activitywise and communitywise are given in the
annexure
As seen from the data, the number of respondents who spent the amount for
various purposes are varying. Depending on the number against each item of utilisation,
the item of utilisation can be prioritised alongwith the percentage as given below:
1. Food                                            26.2%
2. Loan repayment                                  12.6%
3. Wedding                                          7.2%
4. Expenditure on agriculture
and purchase of equipment                       10.0%
5. Others                                           7.0%
6. Clothing                                         5.1%
7. Construction of Houses                           4.5%
8. Purchase of agriculture land                     2.9%
9. Medical treatment                                2.9%
10. Education                                       2.7%
11. Savings                                         2.5%
12. Purchase of livestock                           1.8%
13. Religious functions                             1.7%
14. Construction of wells, bore well & motor        0.9%
22                                        c



15. Self employment                               0.3%
16. Consumable items                              0.3%
As seen from the above, majority of the respondents have spent their compensation
for consumption needs and others religious activities.
About 25.9% of the respondents have spent their money for productive purposes
such as purchase of agricultural land, house sites, purchase of equipment, construction of
wells, purchase of live stock etc. About 2.5% of the respondents have repaid their loan
from out of the compensation received.
23



PROJECT AFFECTED COMMUNITY
The project affected community mainly belonged to three religions, namely,
Hinduism, Christianity and Islam. Hinduism is the original native religion of the area,
where as Islam and Christianity have appeared later with advent of Muslim rulers and
Britishers. The christians are mainly the converts from socially backward class, especially
Scheduled Castes. The study area also comprises of small population of tribal community
who are having mainly Hindu manners, customs and traditions and at the same time
maintain their cultural identity.
The Hindu population of the village can be divided into number of castes and
subcastes and various caste groups as presented hereunder:
1. Brahmins
2. Vysyas,
3. Kapu (Reddy and Kamma)
4. Backward class such as Balija, Yadava, Kuruba, Ediga, Padmasali,
Thogota, Sathani, Thamballa, Bestha, Vaddera, Uppari etc.
5. Viswa Brahmin (Kamsali, Vadla, Kammara)
6. Kummari, ;Mangali,Chakali, Medari,Boya, Dudekula
7. Dasari, Dommari, Pitchikuntla, Jangam
8. Yerukala, Sugali, Chenchu
9. Scheduled Caste
The Brahmins occupy the highest caste hierarchy who are traditionally priests
and men of learning about Hindu scriptures. Vysyas are basically traders and money
lenders. Kapus mainly Reddy and Kamma are agricultural communities who predominate
the project area. In view of land ownership, these groups play prominant role in village
economy, social and political life. Backward communities belonged to various occupational
groups. Balija community are predominant in the project area.  They pursue
various occupations ranging from  cultivation to trading.  Some of them  are
traditionally shepherds and wool makers. Ediga community are traditionally toddy tappers
and liquor distillers. Kurubas are also shepherds and wool makers. Padmasalis and
Thogotas are weavers. Santhanis are priests in Vaishnava temples while Thamballas
are music players in shiva temples. Bestha community are engaged in fishing.
Vaddera community are stone cutters and Uppari are traditionally salt makers. The
other caste groups are basically functional groups such as barbers, washermen etc.
Among the Scheduled Tribes the predominent groups in the area belonged to
Chenchu, Yanadi, Sugali and Yerukala which are notified tribes. About 27 families are
affected due to acquisition of the land under the project. Most of the affected families
belong to Yerukala community and small number to other groups. Yerukalas are found
in 20 villages of the study area who are traditionally basket makers and swine herders.
They have a dialect of their own, but has gone to disuse over a period of time. The
tribe is divided into number of sub-tribes on the basis of occupational specialisation
such as Dabbu (bamboo basket makers), Chuvva (basket makers with date palm), Kuncha
(makers of weaving brushes), Karivepaki (traders of kari  leaves), Nara (rnakers of
24



fibre for rope making), Bhajanthis (musicians).  Some of them have turned to
agriculture in view of difficulties in continuing their traditional occupation.
The Scheduled caste group occupies the last rung of caste hierarchy existing in
the project area. They are basically agricultural labourers and weavers. They also do
the leather work.
The total population covered under the study area is 2.04 lakhs as per the 1981
census including the population of Nandyal. Total number of houses in the project
area are 24,655 as per 1991 census. The density of population is 155 per Sq.KM. The
average house hold size works out to 4.9. The Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe
population form the core of the weaker section of the society, while bulk of the village
population of the area belonged to other groups. Scheduled castes form about 19.1 % of
the rural population and Scheduled Tribes constitute 3.5 % of the total population inhabiting
the project. The sex ratio in terms of females per thousand males in the area works out
to 949 as against the sex ratio of 953 females per thousand males in the Kurnool
District. The literacy rate in the project area is 35.20 %. About 50.3% of the work force
is engaged in agricultural activities of whom 22.4 per cent are cultivators.
7.1. ECONOMIC CONDITIONS OF PROJECT AFFECTED COMMUNITY
The economic conditions of the area mainly depends on agriculture,
as majority of the people are dependent on agriculture or agriculture related activities.
The land being the main source of livelihood, the ownership pattern would determine the
economic status and social status of the people in a particular area. Therefore, the
current status of Land holding distribution in the area operated by each identified social
group and the type of farmers are relevent for assessing the resource base of the village
and socio economic studies of the social groups and classes of the farmers in the study
area. Similarly other items such as one of agricultural implements, livestock etc., are
also important deciding factors in economic status of the land holder. Brief description
of the above items and status of project community with respect to each item is given
below
7.1.1 Land Holding
The pattern of land holding of the project community is given table. k
Sl. No  Type of Farmer         No. and Area (in Acres) of operational holdings
Total           Scheduled     Scheduled
Caste          Tribe
No.    Area       No.    Area    No. Area
1.   Marginal Farmers   12207    16818   2811    3413    219    287
(36.43)    (6.9)  (62.3)  (27.2)  (55.3)  (19.4)
2.   Small Farmers       7758    28228   1044    3668       93    322
(23.15)   (11.6)  (23.1)   (29.5)  (23.5)  (21.8)
25



3.   Others             13541   198494    658    5462      84    866
(40.13)   (81.5)  (14.6)  (43.6)  (21.2)  (58.8)
33506   243540   4513   12545    396      1475
It is vivid from the above table that the marginal farmers constitute 36.43%
in the SRBC Ayacut area and own 11.6 % of the area; the small farmers constitute
23.15 % of the total holdings and own 11.6% of the total area. Other farmers are
holding 40.42% of the total area. The other farmers constitute 40.42%,and they own
81.5% of the total extent in area. Among the scheduled caste, 62.3% are marginal farmers
and they own 27.2 % of the total area, while 23.1% of the schedule caste small farmers
are owning about 29.2% of the total area. Among the scheduled tribe farmers 55.3%
belong to marginal farmers who own 19.4% of area and 23.5% of small farmers owning
about 21.8 % of the total area
The analysis ofdata of Socio Economic Survey gives the distributions of various
social groups among various holding sizes. The distribution of land holding caste wise
among the project affected families based on the dry land holding before acquisition of the
land is given below:
Community                           Land Holding
0-3.75         3.76-7.5     7.6 & above    Total
SC              349 (82.5)     53 (12.5)    21(49)           423
(25.8%)        (11.8)       (3.5)          (17.6)
ST              18 (66.7)      5(18.5)      4 (14.8)           27
(1.3%)         (1.0)        (0.7)           (1.1)
BC              548 (58.2)     210 (22.3)    184(19.5)       942
(40.5)         (46.6)       (30.7)         (39.2)
Others          439 (43.3)     183 (18.1)    391 (38.6)      1013
(32.4)         (40.6)       (65.2)         (42.1)
Total           1354 (56.3)    451 (18.8)    600(24.9)       2405
As seen from the table, among the marginal farmers 25.8 % belonged to
scheduled caste, 1.3% to schedule tribe, 40.5% to backward community and 32.4 %
to other communities. Similarly, among small farmer's group, 86 % of the farmers
belonged to other backward community or other communities and only 11.8% to schedule
caste and 1% to schedule tribe community. Among the medium and big farmers,
scheduled caste constitute 3.5 % and schedule tribe comprises of 0.7% and rest being
backward class community and other classes. Among the schedule caste farmers,
82.5% of the farmers are marginal, 12.5 % are small and only 4.9% are of medium and
large type.
26



7.1.2. Cropping Pattern
The cropping paftern of an area indicates the status of agriculture of that area.
The extent and the food crops indicate the subsistance level of economy of that area.
The larger the area under dry crops, greater the dependency on the rain fall. Important
crops of the area are groundnut, cotton, Sorgham. Seteria, redgram, sunflower, tobacco
etc. The area is mainly cereal based especially minor millets and rice grown under existing
irrigation facilities.
7.1.3. Agricultural Implements*
Normally in the areas where agriculture productivity is high, the agriculture
is machanised. The present status of use of agricultural implements in the study
area has been collected from BMSR of SRBC, command area which itself is based on
livestock census based on census of 1987 for the SRBC proposed command area. Even
though the SRBC is not identical with the present study area the broad picture that emerges
from the BMSR of SRBC command area generally holds good for the study area also.
The following table gives particular equipments available for 1000 hectares of gross
cropped area.
SI.No.       Name of the agricultural Implement          No. of Implements.
1.    Plough
a)  Wooden                                             71
b)  Iron                                               10
Total                                              81
2.    Diesel Engine                                           2
3.    Electric Pump sets                                      8
4.    Tractors                                                 2
5.    Hand Sprays and Dusters                                20
6.    Power sprayers and dusters                              2
7.    Power Tillers
8.    Seed cum fertilizer drill                              29
9.    Power driven planting equipment                         4
10.    Power driven levelling equipment                        3
As seen from the above table, there are 71 wooden and 10 iron ploughs for
every 1000 hectares of gross cropped area. There are 10 pumpsets (Diesel & Electrical)
for every 1000 hectares of gross cropped area. There are 21 sprayers and dusters, 29
seed cum fertiliser drills in use in the area for every 1000 hectares of gross cropped area.
But the position has changed considerably since 1987.
7.1.4. Live Stock:
Live stock is essential in agricultural economy as it is used for various agricultural
operations like ploughing, manuring, threshing etc., besides dairying. Therefore, the
live stock is considered as capital stock in income estimates apart from bovine
animals. Other animals like sheeps, goats and birds like hens and ducks also contribute
to the rural economy. Therefore it is necessary to find out the distribution of the livestock
by category in the study area to assess the resource base of the study area. Following
table represents distribution of Livestock by category in the study area.
27



7.1.5.  Distribution of Live stock by category.*
SI.No.              Category                       Total No.
1.                White Cattle                     21353
Male working                    15406
2.                Black Cattle                     35199
Female milch                    22362
3.                (1) Sheep                        15975
(2) Goat                        20107
4.                Poultry                          69979
Grand Total                    162613
The above table reveals that the black cattle is more preponderant than white
cattle. In the total bovine population white cattle forms about 38% while the black cattle
constitutes 62%. But in the case of Kurnool District as a whole white cattle form 58.6%
and black cattle constitutes 41.4% of the total bovine.
7.1.6. Social adverse impact on scheduled tribes
The project has affected only 27 S.T. families, most of them belonging to Yerukala
community. Considering their major children, total number of project affected persons
belonging to S.T. Community comes to 30. Among them, there are 11 project affected
persons, who have lost their houses and most of them are being in Vanala Village. The 2
displaced families belonged to Yerukala Community and the resettlemet and
rehabilitation package is described under Valanla resettlement plan.
7.1.7. Adverse impact on role and status of Women
Family is the basic and primary institution of the society. The joint family
system is predominant in the project area. The women head of the family generally
attends to kitchen work and also goes to the agriculture activities either as labour on
daily wages or for supervising certain operations such as weeding, transplanting,
harvesting etc. She will be helped in the kitchen by old aged women or widows. The
women also attend to other activities also such as cleaning of food grains, harvesting
of vegetables, dairy etc. Joint family system generally protects the old aged, widows and
disbaled persons of the family. However the joint family system is fast disappearing with
the advent of modern education and consumerism.
The main function of a woman in a family can be listed as follows.
a) Fetching Fuel, fodder
b) Fetching water wherever protected water facilities are not available.
c) Kitchen Work
d) Looking after animal husbandary activities such as dairying, upkeep of cattle
etc.
* Source: BMSR, DE&S, Hyderabad.
28



e) Wage labour or supervision of agriculture operations etc.
f) Caring children and doing other house hold work.
All important decisions are generally taken in consultaion with woman member
of a family, though it is not mandatory. Early marriages and dowry systems are prevalent
in the area.
In order to assess any adverse impact of the project on the women and their
perception about the project a seperate study was conducted through women
anthropologists by using PRA techniques in sample wages by dividing the project
area into two sectors, one being the area where no irrigation component is available
and other being with irrigation component. Some of the major perceptions are listed below.
1. They are aware of land acquisition for the project and came to know through
their husbands.
2. By and large the women are not favourable for land acquisition in sector 1
and possitive in sector 2
3. Some feel that the shortages in the fodder in the area is mainly due to the land
acquisition.
4. In some reaches especially at deep cut alignments,shortage of drinking water
availability due to decrease in water table is experie-ncec .
Since there is no major displacement in the project exce-pt Vanala hamlet,
there are no adverse impact on the role of women and their status. The transitional ill
effects of the project such as low water table in deep cut reaches, fodder shortage
etc. will be over come the moment the project becomes operational. Government of
A.P. has taken up a protected water supply scheme in deep cut reach at Mittakandala to
ameliorate the problem of lowering water table in the area. The rehabilitation packages
providing for economic support through productive asset grant and enabling them to
form into thrift groups and economic support through revolving fund are some of the
special memsuresfor improving the status of women by increasing their levels of income.
Government of A.P. has given equal status for major girl child and treated as a seperate
family irrespective of marital status.
29



PROJECT AFFECTED PERSONS
8.1 Definition
"Project Affected Person" means a person other than a
displaced person who loses atleatfiminimum loss of holding,
and is left tith less than t:ninimum economic holdin ' after
the acquisition or of talcing over of lands from his,9her
possession for the Project;
"Minimulm loss of holding" means loss of a miniinum of
25% of the holding of a person -or the oroject compulsorily
as on the date of not-.fication under the Lk Act.
"Minimum Economic Holding" means a holding of 2 ha. of
dry land or I ha. of irrigated land or an equivalent land
thereof taking projected benefit into account.
"Disolaced Person" means a person who since atleast one
year or prior to the date of ,publication of the Notification
under Sec.4 of the L.A.Act 1894, or to atleat 5 years prior
to the date of taklng over f)r the project, possession of
any land undler his occupation has beon ordinarily residing
in a project affected villge and who has, on account of the
acquisition of his/her land, including homestead land, or
of taking ove~r of land from his/her possession been physica-
lly displaced from suchi village.
Family in relation to a displaced person/project affected
person means persons fallinug in L-he follovwin9 categories
as on the date of public-3t-1on of Sec.4 notification or of
taking over possession in respect of his/her lands/homestead
in the Project affected village or of alienation from any
land taken over for the project;
i) the person who is displaced/affected and his/her
szouse, minor children, minor brothers/sisters,
father and mothlr and other memblers residing with
him and who are depandent on him,/her for their
livelihood; and
ii) major cihild of the displaced/affected person wrho is
more than 1,3 years of age irrespective of his martial
status;
802 .CLASSIFICATIO1N OF PAFs
I .Displaced
2.Land Holdiers
3.1M4ajor Child
4.-ncroachers and Others
5 .Destitutes/Aqed
8.3.PACKAGsE OF ENTITLEMENTS Th) EACH CATEGORY
8,3.1 Displaced persons
i. Prov-isLon of house site of 3 to 5 cents area to all
displaced fainilies free of cost.
ii. Each displaced faiiiLly shall be provided with economic
assis-tance of n5s.10,0O0/- on the pattern of weaker
section housing progz'amme for the construction of a
house at a new resettlement site in addition to per-
mitting them -to use -tlhe ma-terial of the old structure.
30



iii. Provision of free transport facility to transport usable household material from
the old site to resettlement site.
iv. They shall be provided with maintenance allowance of Rs.500/- per month/for
9 months to cover their initial expenses till their regular economic activity gets
streamlined.
v. Cattle maintenance of Rs. 200/- per month shall be provided for a period of 6
months to maintain their cattle population.
vi. Wherever a whole village or a group of families numbering not less than hundred
are displaced, Civic amenities such as electricity, drinking water facility, internal
roads, community building shall be provided at free of cost.
vii. Resettlement centre to be provided with a Farm Service Centre (FSC) under
the management of a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) or association
of the displaced family members with an outlay of Rs. 2.0 Lakhs in order to
provide services for various farm activities.
8.3.2. Land Holders
i. Compensation at prevailing market value for the lands, trees, structures and
other assets shall be provided. In addition, a sum equivalent to 30% of the
value of compensation as solatium shall also be provided for the compulsory
deprivation of the asset.
ii. All PAPs under this category are eligible under land for land for allotment of
Government or ceiling surplus land to the extent of loss or upto a limit of 2ha of
dry land or 1 ha of wet land or an equivalent thereof, if available in the same
revenue village. While alloting the land preference will be given to persons
belonging to the SC/St. If Government land is not available in the project affected
village, then a package of economic support programme will be implemented
for improving the economic status of the displaced / PAPs in agriculture, industry,
business, animal husbandry or service sectors. The package will consists of
the items spelt out under para "Economic Rehabilitation Package". for land
holders.
iii. Full compensation for damage, if any, to the standing crops or trees due to the
acquisition.
iv. Payment of ex-gratia equivalent to market value to the assignees of Government
land whenever such land is taken over for the project purpose.
8.3.3.  Major Child
Major child as spelt out under definitions above are eligible for the economic
rehabilitation package on par with the PAPs. The major child is treated as below poverty
line PAP irrespective of the status (above or below poverty line) of the head of the PAF.
8.3.4.  Encroachers and others
They are eligible for economic rehabilitation package as detailed above on par
with PAP affected due to land acquisition.
31



8.3.5.  Destitutes/Aged
Does not arise in the case of canal affected persons.
8.4 ECONOMIC REHABILITATION PACKAGE TO EACH CATEGORY
8.4.1. Land Holders
a) Productive asset grant of Rs. 5,000/- to all such displaced/project affected
persons . This grant can be linked to bank loans in order to secure maximum
assistance for their economic support programme.
b) Preference in granting fishing rights in the proposed reservoir;
c) Permission to take up horticulture or social forestry plantation in the foreshore
area of the reservoir and along the canal banks and allow them to use its income;
d) Provision of smokeless chullas free of cost;
e) Initiation of group activity; and
fl Pr vsion.of vocationaVItraini  inO elevant ecQnnmic activities.
g)AlPTro. ec   a  eci 9r   l es s 1a    e orovced wi th mainte-
nance allc.loance of R,.5u'X/- per month per fainily per 9 months.
8.4.2. Major Child
Same as under (8.4.1) except provision under (d)
8.4.3. Encroachers and others
Same as under (8.4.1) above
8.4.4. Destitues and aged
Does not arise in the case of canal affected persons.
Basis of Definition of PAP etc.:
The underlying basis of definition of the PAPs is relatable to sufferance due to loss
of land which is considered as 25% of the original holding which is consistent with the
definition under A.P.11. Irrigation Project and the land left with, after acquisition which is
considered as 2 ha of dry land being the minimum economic holding for sustenance under
the conditions prevailing in the State. Statement showing the number of PAPs under each
category is presented in Annexure - IX
32



ADVERSE IMPACTS OF LAND ACQUISITION
Though there is no major displacement due to the construction of the project,
except a hamlet of Vanala village, the land acquisition has affected various social groups
in terms of reduction of their land holding after land acquisition. The mobility of land
holdings before and after acquisition has been analysed and depicted in Annexure X.
As seen from the table, there were about 1101 awardees who were marginal farmers, 524
were small farmers and 784 were big farmers, out of total project affected families of 2409.
As against this, the land acquisition for the project has left with no land with respect to 426
marginal holders hitherto and the balance 675 were still marginal holders. Among the
small farmers, 53 have become landless, 206 have been reduced to marginal farmers and
leaving 265 in small farmer category. Similarly among the medium and big farmers, 14
have been rendered landless, 24 have become marginal farmers, 134 have become small
farmers, thus leaving 612 in the category of medium and big farmers. Thus, a total of 493
land holders were rendered landless in view of land acquisition and the remaining people
have been affected in varying degrees. Marginal farmers have been reduced by 17% in
absolute terms, as against the situation existed prior to land acquisition. Similarly, the
small farmers have become less by 23% after land acquisition. In other words there is
apparent downward movement of land holding size resulting in adverse effect on the
income levels and production systems of the project affected people.
Similarly, analysis has been done regarding the impact of land acquisition on the
lesses and share croppers. There were very low number of people who were taking the
land on lease and for share cropping in the project area. Based on the socio economic
survey, there were 26 persons who took the land under acquisition on lease and 14 used
to do share cropping. Village-wise status of lesses and share cropping is given in Table..
Based on the analysis of impact of acquisition on lesses and share croppers, it is
revealed that about 8 persons have shifted to alternate land of the same farmer and 20
have moved to new farmer. 3 persons have changed their economic activity in view of
land acquisition. The rest of the people are not available for collecting the information.
This indicates that the lesses and share croppers are not adversely affected as they have
moved over to the alternate land to the new farmer or same farmer in the same area. In
view of absence of major displacement or submersion of the project area, which is common
to other major projects, except reduction of land holding size and certain percentage of
land holders becoming landless, there is not much of adverse impact in terms of joblessness,
marginalisation, morbidity etc. In the hamlet of Vanala where a group has been displaced
because of acquisition of their houses, they have been rendered homeless and started
living temporarily in the nearby area in the existing site.
33



ENABLING LEGISLATION FOR ACQUISITION OF LAND
The Government of A.P. is empowered to acquire any land for a public purpose
under the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894. This Act was amended and
made applicable to the A.P. State by Land Acquisition A.P. Extension and Amendment
Act, 1959 (Act No. xx of 1959). The Land Acquisition Act 1894 was amended
from time to time and the last amendment took place in 1984. The Land Acquisition
Act and its empowerment of the State to acquire, any piece of land on its territory
is based on the doctrine of "eminent domain". The expressions "eminent domain" means
the power of the state over all properties in the State and refers to the power of the State
to take for the public purposes any property of the state on payment of compensation.
In other words the power of compulsory acquisition of property which, according
to every system of jurisprudence the state possesses, is known as the power of eminent
domain. Article 31(2) of the Constitution of India represents the principle of eminent
domain.
Under the Land Acquisition Act, the interests of the awardees are protected
by the stipulations incorporated in the Act, which require the Collector (L.A.) to refer
all petitions filed by the awardees to civil count for adjudication and assist the court
in its adjudication to determine the amount of compensation. Government of
A.P. have issued G.O.Ms.No.1307, Revenue Assignment.l Department, dated 23/12/
1993 to order payment of lumpsum exgratia equivalent to the market value to
the assignees of Government lands and surplus ceiling lands from whom the lands were
resumed for the public purpose and payment of valuation for other private archards,
wells etc. subject to the following conditions:
a) that the amount is to be treated as exgratia;
b) that the assignees would not be entitled for making references under Section
18, and Section 28/A of Land Acquisition Act, to the Courts;
c) an amount equivalent to 15% for the lands resumed prior to 30.4.82 and 30%
after that date on the market value payable under section 23(2) of Land
Acquisition Act, may be considered for being included in the total exgratia
payable to the assignees as solution;
d) that the assignees will not be entitled for interest for additional market value
under the Land Acquisition Act;
e) that the above conditions shall be made applicable to all assigned lands
resumed on or after 9/2/1984 ie., the date of issue of G.O.Ms.No. 180, Revenue
Dated 9/2/1984 in supersession of G.O.Ms.No.43, Revenue(B) Dept., dated
23/1/1988.
34



ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESMENT
Environmental Impact Assesment and Environmental Management plan for SRBC
submitted to MOEF, Government of India and was discussed in the Environmental Appraisal
Committee of Experts for River Valley projects on 16.11.94 and on 7.3.95. In the second
meeting on 7.3.95 it is decided to have field visit by the experts from 7th to 1 0th April, 1995
for according Environmental clearance.
Srisailam Right Branch Canal passes, on the fringes of the reserves namely Ghani,
Panyam, Ramathirtham, Ramavaram and owk reserves. The flora that is found in these
forest is of miscellaneous thorny trees and shrubs. An extent of 268.71 ha of forest land
has been resumed out of 301.49 ha for the construction. Annexure Xl the alignment of
the canal and areas of forests are depicted in fig 5. Though the canal passes on the
fringes of reserve forest the existing passages and approaches for the local communities
access to the forest, are preserved by constructing 40 number of single land and double
lane bridges which would facilitate free movement and transport of the people of the
project area. The details of mileage and the structures mentioned above are given in
Annexure XII. The impact of taking possession of forest area to an extent of 268.71 ha. is
absolutely nil, with respect to the communities' access to non-timber forest produce, fire
wood and fodder, as the area consists of rocky and sparse thorny vegetation. The socio
economic survey has also indicated no adverse impact as far as access to non-timber
forest produce, fire wood and fodder for the community in the project area. Similarly the
impact of the project on the health of the community has been assessed by the State
Health Dept. and certain precautionary measures for controlling likelywater borne diseases
have been suggested. The command area is covered by six primary health centres and
26 sub-centres under these primary health centres. Based on the suggestion, Irrigation
Department will provide necessary assistance to the Health Department in implementing
the preventive measures.
11.1. COMPENSATORY AFFORESTATION:
The total forest land coming under SRBC is 301.49 ha. Compensatory afforestation
plan has been prepared and got approved by MOEF, Govt. of India. The Forest Department
will implement the afforestation work in the lands allocated for the purpose in a phased
manner.
35



PARTICIPATION OF PROJECT AFFECTED PERSONS (PAPS)
No major development activity will   be a success until and unless the
beneficiaries are involved fully from the stage of planning process. In the rehabilitation of
project affected persons, the involvement of PAPs is equally crucial and success of
achieving the aims depend on their degree of participation. In order to ensure the
participation of PAPs right from the beginning, they have been involved right from the
stage of socio economic study, which is basis for preparation of the action plan. Involvement
of the PAPs during socio economic study is however limited to calculation of factual
information and seeking the perceptions and choice of economic activities for income
generation and productive support.
Since the land acquisition is being done as per the Land Acquisition Act, which
stipulates elaborate procedure in order to protect both the interests of the land owner and
the Government, who is acquiring the land for valid public purpose. The land acquisition,
no doubt causes hardship to the affected community, but, will be inevitable for the larger
development of the society. At the same time, the hardship caused due to land acquisition
should be ensured to be kept at minimum or avoid wherever possible through various
institutional mechanisms and grievance redressal procedures. The Act itself provides for
mandatory grievance redressal in the form of court reference as and when the awardees
are dis-satisfied about amount of compensation paid to them by the Land Acquisition
Officer. Making reference to the court as a mandatory on the part of the Land Acquisition
Officer, based on the request of the awardees, ensures the redressal of grievance of low
compensation to the land holders. Similarly, the grievances that might arise in the process
of resettlement and rehabilitation , especially in the areas of categorisation of PAPs fixing
their entitlements, are proposed to be attended through sub-collector, who is also R & R
Officer who is fully empowered to correct the mistakes, if any occured while preparing the
plan and attend to all other grievances with respect to payment of compensation and their
entitlements. The project affected persons can also approach through the project level
rehabilitation cell, as one of the PAPs will be member to redress their grievances. Similarly,
State level rehabilitation Cell can also be approached for redressal of any grievance.
Similarly, wherever resettlement becomes essential due to displacement or
acquisition of the houses, the selection of resettlement site, preparation of layout plan will
invariably be decided by taking the perceptions of the affected people through consultation
process. Similarly, the rehabilitation options will also be depending on the choice of the
affected person, who has already been ascertained while conducting socio economic
survey which may however be modified depending on the need. Since there is no major
dislocation, the integration with the host community after consultation is not a problem.
36



ACTION PLAN
The objective of the Govt. of A.P. is to mitigate the hardship caused by any
involuntary displacement under the project by avoiding or minimising whereever feasible,
involuntary displacement by exploring viable, alternatives of Project Design. Wherever
displacement becomes inevitable, the displaced farnilies will be resettled and rehabilitated
in such a manner that their living standards are improved by increasing their income earning
capacity and production levels or atleast restoring through resettlement, to the standard of
their former living conditions. The project affected persons due to land acquisition for the
project will be rehabilitated through providing productive asset grant for restoring their
income. The Scheduled Tribes will be protected with particular care to retain and restore
their cultural identity and traditional rights with regard to forests.The PROJECT AFFECTED
PERSONS ECONOMIC REHABILITATION PLAN has been prepared keeping the above
objectives in view.
Specific goals and aims of the Action Plan are given below:
1. Development of resettlement site at Vanala village and construction of houses
through the involvement of displaced families.
2. Resettlement of displaced families in the resettlement site with f ree house
site +iplts  grant for constiuction of house.
3. Providing social and infrastructural amenities such as internal roads, drinking
water facilities, electrification, school building and community hall for the use of
the resettled people.
4. Restore the income levels of project affected persons to the above poverty line
by providing production asset grant .
5. Assisting the project affected persons who are above poverty line by providing
productive asset grant and improve their income levels.
6. Assisting women through their participation to form thrift groups and providing
assistance in the form of revolving fund in order to improve their socio economic
conditions.
7. Imparting training and skill development for the youth so as to establish self-
employment production units to improve their income levels.
PAF s
8. Providing smokeless chullas to all the displaced familie4/'n order to improve
the health ahd hygiene of women in their domestic work.
9. Providing cattle maintenance grant in the transit;ion period until resettlement
in the new site.
10. Providing transitional maintenance allowance for their smooth resettlement and
restoring their income generating activities.
13.1.   RESETTLEMENT:
There was no major displacement due to the construction of the project owing to
abundant precautionary measures taken by the Government to avoid any major
displacement. However, the main canal alignment at KM 12.922 has passed through a
hamlet of Vanala village, Pamulapadu Mandal, requiring acquisition of 97 houses, thus
displacing 97 families in the hamlet. In addition to the above 12 more houses, structures
37



or house plots have been acquired in rest of the project area in 7 villages. The details of
acquisition of houses and house plots are given in Annexure XIII
As seen from the Annexure XilI, 109 families are affected due to acquisition of
houses and or house plots in 8 villages, majority being in Vanala village. Considering the
major children for the purpose of resettlement (83) total number of project affected persons
requiring resettlement comes to 192. Among the above, houses have alone been accquired
from 22 families. There are 61 major children in families from whom houses alone were
acquired and 22 in families from whom land and houses have been acquired.
Out of 192 project affected persons, requiring settlement or resettlement and
rehabilitation, 148 belong to Scheduled Caste, 11 belong to Scheduled Tribes, 23 belong
to Backward Caste and 10 belong to other communities.
Since most of the displaced families belong to the hamlet of Vanala village, one
site is proposed for their resettlement. The process of resettlement is given below:
13.1.1 Resettlement In Vanala Village:
A hamlet of Vanala village consisting of 97 houses have been acquired for the
construction of the main canal at Km 12.922, resulting in displacement of the above
families. The hamlet is located at a distance of about 400 mtrs from the main village and
the houses were constructed under Government Housing Programme after assignment
of house sites. The acquired site was fairly developed with internal roads, electrification
and drinking water facilities.
The families which have been displaced because of acquisition of their houses
in Vanala village are proposed to be resettled in a nearby site which is 200 mtrs away from
the existing acquired location. It is almost adjoining to the existing site and is most suitable
for resettlement. The perceptions of the project affected persons have been taken and
most of the project affected persons have consented for shifting to the proposed site.
Though the total number of project affected persons comes to 175 including major children,
provision is made for 20 more PAPs for future requirement. Thus the total number of
house sites that are proposed to be planned comes to 200. As per the policy of the State
Government, 5 cents of land is given for each house site and on that basis the total area
for the resettlement site comes to 8.40 ha. The details of working out of land requirement
is given in Annexure XIV. Out of the total area required for the resettlement site, an extent
of 5.266 ha. of Government land is available which can be used immediately for
resettlement. The balance area of 3.14 ha. is proposed to be acquired from the adjacent
survey numbers. The location of displacement site and proposed resettlement site is
given in Fig 6. Considering the requirement of the area and location of the resettlement
site, the lay out of the site has been worked out, the details of which are given in Fig 7. As
seen from the map, there are total 25 blocks and each block consists of 8 plots, thus
totalling to 200 plots . An extent of 2.80 ha. of land is earmarked for school building,
community hall, burial ground and common area. There is a provision for a small washing
facility for the village.
The implementation schedule for the resettlement of the displaced hamlet is
given in annexureA?Xxv\'The social infrastructure and the cost particulars are given in
Annexure XV. A total of Rs75U-13 lakhs is proposed to be spent towards construction of
internal roads, approach roads, drinking water facilities, school building, community facility,
electrificationandotheramTenitiesincludin9 c-nstruction orant for cnnstru-
ction of ,o!rn,sS for tn.  7APs.
38



13.1.2 Resettlement in other Villages:
Other project affected persons to be resettled are located in 7 villages and hence
seperate resettlement site is not required. These people are proposed to be given with
house plots on free of cost and house construction grant as per the eligibility norms, so as
to assist them in constructing houses in their own village.
13.1.3. Other Benefits:
In addition to the resettlement, rehabilitation package is proposed the details of
which are given in Volumell for each individual. It is proposed to organise women members
of the displaced families especially at Vanala into thrift groups and provide revolving fund
for economic activity to improve the living standards. In order to improve the health of the
women in their domestic work, every house is provided with assistance for installing
improved smokeless chullas.
In addition to the above, the new site shall have access to existing community
facilities of the main village such as extension services, market facility, milk collecting
units, health facilities etc. The site is part of the Vanala Panchayat and therefore problems
of demarcating boundary does not arise.
13.2    REHABILITATION
The acquisition of land for construction of the project has affected the people in
the area to various degrees depending on the extent of acquisition and adverse
effect on their production systems. As perthe policy of GovernmentofAndhra Pradesh,
the families covered in the socio economic survey in SRBC has been screened
and grouped into various categories. However, the project affected persons refers to
those people who come under the definition described in the earlier chapter. In view of
varying stages of land acquisition under main canal and distributoriesfor easy
analysis and budgetting, the project affected persons are described under two
categories namely Project Affected Persons under main canal and project affected persons
under Block IV and VIll. Under each item, for easy processing, the project affected persons
have been grouped under two categories namely
i) those losing patta lands alone
ii) those losing Government land and or patta land and or house/house site.
This categorisation has helped in assessing the number of affected people due to
acquisition of Government land.
13.2.1 Project Affected Persons:
i) Main Canal
a) Patta lands:- The project affected persons due to acquisition of private patta
lands, village-wise is given AnnexureXVI. There are 1439 PAPs including
major children under this category. Out of 1439 PAPs, 312 belong to
Scheduled caste, 21 belongs to STs, 648 belong to BCs and 458 belong to
other castes. 86% of the PAPs in this category are males and 14% are
females. 78% of the PAPs are below poverty line and 22% are above
poverty line.
39



b) Government lands and or houses:- The details of project affected persons
due to acquisition of Government land and or private land and or house or
house site, village-wise are depicted in Annexure XVI I. There are 439 PAPs
under this category, of which 52% belong to SCs, 3.9% belong to STs, 28%
belong to BCs and rest to other castes. About 87% of this category are
males and 13% alone are females. About 75%.are below poverty line
under this category and rest are above poverty line.
II)Block IV and Block Vil:
a) Patta lands: The project affected persons village-wise are given in Annexure
XVIII. There are 66 PAPs under this category of whome 18 belonged to
SCs, 27 belong to BCs and 21 to other castes. About 73% of them are
males and 27% are females. About 57% of the PAPs are below poverty line
and 43% are above poverty line.
b) Government/Home sites: There are only 8 PAPs under this group and of
them 5 are males and 3 are females (Annexure XIX).
Total abstract of PAPs are given in Annexure XX. On an average 86% of PAPs
are males and 14% are females. About 67.7% of the total PAPs are below poverty line
and 32.3% are above poverty line.
13.2.2 Strategy For Rehabilitation:
, Socio economic survey has indicated that Government land is not available in
their villages which can be given for their rehabilitation. About 2,309 people who have
been interviewed responded stating that there is no Government land available for
assignment in their villages. Though the Government policy clearly indicate that the
project affected persons will be given land in lieu of their land acquired as perthe
norms, provided Government land is available in their village, in view of the scarcity
of Government land availability, the Government of Andhra Pradesh proposes to pro-
vide them with means of increasing their income levels and thus to restore their earlier
status of living or improvement than the earlier status before acquisition. Therefore, Gov-
ernment of A.P. has decided to provide production asset grant and  arrange loan for
takingup various income generating activities depending on the resources avail-
ability in the village and improve the income levels. In addition to the project affected
family, all the major children as on the date of socio economic survey are also being
supported with production asset grant and for providing productive asset grant, all the
major children have been treated as below poverty line. Since the project affected person
will be the best person to select the type of activity most suited to him and to the environ-
ment in which he lives, while conducting socio economic survey the perceptions or
choices of the economic activity that can be takenup by the concerned person has
been elicited and depending on his choice the production asset grant is programmed
to be arranged. However, depending on the resource base of the village and the number
of people that may opt for a particular type of activity whose viability depends on the
market linkages the choices will be further confirmed and will be modified accordingly,
while collecting the grant applications from the PAPs.  Depending on the type of
activity, it is proposed to arrange production-cum-training centres wherever possible
and help in finding out the market for their produce.
40



The women members of the PAPs depending on the number in each village will be
mobilised to form  into a group and initiate thrift activity.  Such groups after
stabilisation would be assisted with ecoomic support for taking up income generat-
ing activity by them. The youth from the project affected families will be selected for
imparting training and skills in various industrial activities and assist them to obtain grant
and loan to establish self-employment ventures in the area. The trained youth will be
exposed to one month entrepreneurship development programme after completion of
their training period during which the formalities for establishing self employment activity
will be completed and assisted for establishing the unit.
In addition to the above rehabilitation package, the PAPs will be provided to
enjoy the benefits of other ongoing rural developmental and welfare schemes in the
area. Some of the important rural developmental and welfare schemes in which the
PAPs depending on their eligibility can be made beneficiaries in order to derive
maximum benefits, are as follows.
1. Supply of rice at Rs. 2.00 a Kg.
2. Electricity  supply at flat subsidised rates for agricultural  pumpsets
3. Economic development activities under tribal welfare and S.C. Corporation of
the State Government.
4. Providing boarding facilities for the studies of the children of PAPs
and social welfare scholarship for welfare section.
5. Employment opportunities in schemes such as Jawahar Rojgar Yojana,
Employment Assurance Scheme etc.
6. Adult Education Programme.
7. Arranging protective water supply
The rehabilitation packages have been evolved for Main canal and Block IV and
Vill separately. Under each category, the PAPs due to acquisition of patta land; PAPs
due to acquisition of Governrnent land, and or patta land and or house or house sites
are dealt separately with respect to their entitlements. Village-wise PAPs and their
entitlements and financial implications for each of the above four categories is given
separately in Annexure XXI to XXIV. A combined abstract of the total rehabilitation and
resettlement is given in Annexure XXV.
Individual village-wise PAP wise plan under patta lands, Government and or patta
and house site or house are given in Volume 11.
41



STRATEGY FOR IMPLENTATION OF ACTION PLAN
Implementation of the Action Plan is Multi Departmental, Multi-activity oriented and
hence it requires high degree of inter departmental monitoring, and coordination. Since
the resettlement pertains to only small village of about 100. homesteads namely Vanala
Village and all other project affected persons are spread all over the project covering 50
villages of the Districts, there will not be concentrated activity of rehabilitation except
resettlement of Vanala hamlet. Therefore creation of exclusive organisation for
implementing PAPERP would be detrimental and not advisable. Therefore the existing
machinery of various departments which are under the exclusive control of the District
Collector should be made use of for implementing the PAPERP. This would also gives the
benefit of various on-going developmental schemes in which the project affected persons
could be involved by the concerned department. In view of this it is proposed to make use
of the Institution of District Collector as the agency and centre of activity in implementing
PAPERP.
It has been the experience which was confirmed during the Socio Economic Survey
that there are no permanent non-governmental organisations in the area. Therefore it
may not be possible to involve the N.G.O.s in implementation of PAPERP. However efforts
will continue to be made to identify a local non-governmental organisation or broom a
local N.G.O. if any for the successful implementation of PAPERP.
Involvement of community/social groups or organisations would depend on
concentration of the project affected persons. In order to have effective involvement of the
project affected persons in implementing the Action Plan Local committees, wherever the
number of PAPS are 50 or more, will be formed and social groups of the project affected
community would be utilised for successful implementation of the plan. Social development
of the community of PAPERP particularly women and youth is proposed to be achieved
through following ways.
1. Whenever the women PAPS are about 15 or more, there shall be process of
social engineering to mobilise them into forming thrift groups with 15 in each
group and financial assistance for taking up economic activity.
2. The youth are proposed to be selected depending upon their attitude and
perception to impart intensive training in various activities for acquiring skills or
improve no existing skills as the case may be, in order to inculcate and promote
leadership qualities
42



INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
As described above the existing district administration is proposed to be utilised for
affective implementation of PAPERP rather than going in for exclusive organisation for
the reasons stated above. The Sub-Collector, Nandyal is proposed to be the Officer
Incharge of implementing PAPERP under over all guidance and control of the District
Collector. The organisation chart for implementing the PAPERP is given in Annexure
XXVI.
A committee is proposed to be constituted namely project level rehabilitation cell
for effective monitoring and implementation of PAPERP. The composition of project level
rehabilitation cell is given below.
15.1. DISTRICT LEVEL REHABILITATION CELL
15.1.1. Constitution
1.  District Collector                              Chairman
2.  Sub Collector, Nandyal                          Member, Convenor
Resettlement & Rehabilitation Officer
3.  Project Director, DRDA                          Member
4.  Special Deputy Collector Land Acquisition       Member
5.  Joint Collector                                 Member
6.  District Development Officer                    Member
7.  Chief Engineer of the Project                   Member
8.  Superintending Engineer                         Member
9.  Representative of Project Affect Persons (PAPs)  Member
I10.  Representative of local
Non-governmental Orgn. (NGO)                   Member
15.1.2. Functions:
1. Advise in the conduct of socio-economic survey of the Project affected/
displaced persons and in the preparation of R&R Plans;
2. Monitor and Review Implementation of R&R Plans:
3. Function as a Grievance Redressal Body supervising Project Level
Rehabilitation Cell;
4. Consider and approve the recommendations of the Project Rehabilitation
Cell;
5. Taking policy decisions on the R&R issues from time to time;
6. Provide overall guidance and leadership to smooth resettlement and
rehabilitation of the affected families.
43



15.2. STATE LEVEL REHABILITATION CELL:
15.2.1 Constitution:
Following will be the composition of State Level Rehabilitation Cell for the Project:
1. Principal Secretary to Government
Irrigation & CAD Department                     Chairman
2. Secretary to Government Irrigation
& CAD (Projects) Department                     Member
3. Secretary to Government Revenue Department      Member
4. Secretary to Government Housing Department      Member
5. Secretary to Government Finance
& Planning (Fin. Wing) Dept.                    Member
6. Commissioner Panchayat Raj & Rural Development    Member
7. Director of Ground Water                        Member
8. Commissioner of Agriculture                     Member
9. Director of Women & Child Welfare               Member
10. Chief Engineer of the Project                   Member
11. Special Officer Project
Preparation & Monitoring Cell                   Member-Convenor
15.2.3  Functions:
1. The Cell shall guide the Socio-economic Bench Mark Survey of the Project
affected persons;
2. Monitor and Review the acquisition of land and payment of compensation;
3. Assist in preparation of R&R Plan for the displaced/Project affected families
in accordance with the Policy finalised for the Project;
4. Identify the resettlement sites suitable for establishing the Resettlement
Centres;
5. Advise and recommend on the nature of civic amenities to be provided at
the resettlement Centre;
6. Dovetail the Economic rehabilitation Plan of the Project in the District Annual
Credit Plans for necessary funding;
7. Attend to the grievances of displaced persons and Project affected persons
and recommend measures to redress them.
The Committee meets once in three months and review the progress of each of the
items of resettlement and rehabilitation.
44



The recommendations shall be subject to the approval of the Government.
As explained in the earlier paras various functionaries of related departments shall
be involved in implementing PAPERP under over all control of the District Collector and
under guidance of Principal Secretary, Irrigation and Command Area Development
Department.
45



MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Concurrent monitoring shall be done by the Project Level Rehabilitation Cell while
employing one of theirdepartmental agency for the real time monitoring ofthe implemetation
of the plan. Monitoring by the Project Level Rehabilitation Cell and State Level through
prescribed proformae, inputs to be prepared for every month shall also form basis for
concurrent monitoring. Evaluation by an independent agency not associated with the
Project execution shall be taken up two times during the Project period. First evaluatiion
shall be after half the period of execution and final evaluation will be after completion of
the plan period.
46



BUDGET
The Budget for project affected persons economic rehabilitation programme
for A.P.I1I Project is prepared based on the strategy explained in the earlier chapter.
Since the project is ongoing and 30% of the works have already been completed for which
the land especially in the main canal has been acquired, and the land under Block
IV and VIil is yet to be acquired, socio economic survey I has been conducted for all the
acquired lands/Vjnder Block IV and VIII duly preparing the land plan schedules under
these blocks. The Budget for A. P.111 Irrigation Project will be based on the actual action
plan to the above extent ie., main canal and Block IV and VIII and indicative for the
rest of the blocks under SRBC and complete SRSP. Therefore, the budget is prepared
into three parts.
SPaC
1. Budget estimates for the Phase-I of the/project i.e., the main canal and
Block IV and VIII.
2. Indicative budget for rest of the Blocks of SRBC
3. Indicative budget for SRSP.
17.1. Budget for main canal and Block IV & Vil of SRBC.
While calculating the budget estimates, the compensation payable has been
taken for the balance extent of land to be acquired under Block IV and Vil. Compensation
is calculated on prorata basis by taking per Ha. value as Rs.1.25 lakhs plus solatium
of 30% over and above the market value. This projection has been adopted for an extent
of 137 ha yet to be acquired under Block IV and Vill. Since number of cases
under main canal are refrred under Section 18 to various Courts, a lumpsum provision
is made towards decretal amounts for the lands already acquired. Resettlement and
Rehabilitation  budget has been extracted from the respective action plan and are
summarised below. The cost of the project management including the socio economic
studies and preparation of R & R Action plan, monitoring and evaluation have been
incor 'porated in the budget. A lumpsum provision is provided for project administration
such as capital, for equipment, furniture, salaries and other contingencies etc.
A. Budget estimates for SRBC
i) For 137.0 ha @ 1.25 lakhs per ha and 30%
solatium                                      Rs.222.63
ii) Payment for decretal charges                  Rs.200.00
B. Resettlement
i) Acquiring land for resettlement for
3.14 ha @ 3.21 lakh/ha                          Rs. 10.08
ii) Primary facilities such as development
of approach roads water facilities               Rs. 9.04
iii) Secondary facilities such as internal
roads, community hall, school building,
dhobhighat, bus shelter etc.                    Rs. 10.00
47



iv) House grant for vanala hamlet for 175
persons pxs. l0,coO eacih                     Rs. 17.50
v) Rehabii-taticn                                Rs. 24.593
vi) Farm Service Centre                           fis.  2.00
vii) Comrnunity Partic:.pation and riscellaneous  rs.  2.00
Fs. 75*213
Deduct provision (iv) and (v) already   (-)R   42 ng3
included in village specific action plan -)s- 4 9
Net Total         Rs. 33.12
C .Rehabi litation:
i) Productive asset grant (@ 50C,- per PAP       Rs. 94.C6
ii) Economic assistance for smokeless Chullas  Rs. 6.26
iii) Revolving funed for women thrift groups       FIs. 14.59
iv ) Traini.ng and Self Employment
a )Crant                                      Rs.  9.84
b)Loan                                        R.s . 19.68
v) Maintenance Allowance                         Rs. 46.98
vi) Cattle maintenance Allo%vance                 as'.  0.26
vii) 1lousi,ng Grant and Training (excluding loan) Rs. 29.20
Total        Rs.201.18
Project Management
i) Socio economic studies and action plan        fis. 15.()0
ii) Consultancy and Technical Assistance          Rs.  0.70
iii) Training of R & Fi Staff                      Rs .  2.00
iv) Monitoring and evaluation                     Rs. 10.00
Total       Rs. 27.70
Project Administration
i) Equipment, furniture, salaries,               Rs. l0.C00
stationery etc.,
ii) Contingencies                                 Rs. 10.00
iii) Enteroreneruship development programme         's.  9.00
leac,ership development programme
Total       Rs. 29.CK0
48



BLOCK IV AND VIII
A. Resettlement
House grant @ 10,000 each                     Rs. 0.40
B. Rehabilitation
i) Productive asset grant                     Rs-  3460
ii) Assistance for smokeless chullas           Rs. 0.24
iii) Revolving  fund for women thrift group    Rs* 0.57
iv) Vocational Training
a )Grant                                   Rs. 0.39
b)Loan                                     Rs. 0.78
v) Maintenance Allowvance                     Rs. 1.80
vi) Cattle MaintenanceAllowance                 Rs. 0.02
vii) Training                                   Rs. 1.25
viii) Total Grant                                Rs. 7.87
ix) Total Loan                                (Rs. 0.78)
INDICATIVE BUDGET FOR REST OF THE BLOCKS OF SRBC AND SRSP
Number of project affected persons under each category
has been arrived at on prorata of the command,area under
Block IV and VIII for which socio economic survey has been
conducted. In respect of main canal for SRSP, number of
PAPs has been estimated on the same analogy but in proportion
to the land acquired under Main canal (SRBC) with that to be
acquired under SRSP, in relation to PAPs under main canal
(SRBC). Provisions have been made for each category similar
to the one provided in the detailed budget estimate for the
Block IV and VIII. Similar procedure has been adopted to
arrive at the budget estimate for the distributories in
SRSP also. Rest of the procedure is one and same for arri-
ving at the other parameters which have been adopted in the
indicative budget for distributories is same as explained
earlinr vide budget statements-annexures XXVII to XXX. The
basis of arriving the prorata indicators are as follows:-
Distributori es
Block IV & VIII     other Blocks   SRSP distri-
SRBC                of SRBC         butories
Ayacut in ha     6309              58769         97860
PAPs               72                670          1120
Main Canal
.$. SRBC   -  '  SRSP
Land acquired
under main       1513              79
canal in ha
No. of PAPs      1881              98
49



WORK-PLAN
In order to successfully implement the Resettlement and Rehabilitation programme
with ease and to the satisfaction of the affected people, all the key activities have
been identified. They are divided into sub-activities duly earmarking time for each
one of them. The key activities are:
1 ) Implementation schedule of land acquisition for Block IV and Vil independently.
It is linked to the construction programme, mainly. Other sub-activities from the
submission of Land Plan schedule to the award stage are planned in proper order.
2) As regards resettlement there is only one village namely Vanala. A separate
action plan has been devised. All the activities flanked by selection of
site at the begining to the stage of shifting them to new site and supply of
chullahs and planting of avenue trees have been scheduled properly.
3) Among the activities of economic development, training, skill development
and self employment occupies the provide of place. A well designed
implementation schedule is prepared and presented.
4) Other important activities are productive asset support programme with a
schematic order of implementation starting from preparation of District audit
plan, thru verification of PAPs, processing of applications,  release  of  grants
and loans till they are successfully grounded and monitored thereafter for
mid correction and final corrections.
5) Scheduling of payment of maintenance allowance and catttle allowance is
also not lost sight of and programmed well.
The bar charts prepared and presented vide Annexures XXXI to XXXVII
so



LIST OF ANNEXURES
Annexure                    Particulars
I        Sectorwise Villages
11       Organisation chart of Study team
III       Villagewise coverage of Survey Schedule
IV        Village wise, Mandal wise land acquired
under project for main canal.
V         -do- for Block IV & VilI
VI        Land Acquired and proposed to be acquired under SRBC
Main Canal and Block Iv & VIII
VIl        Village wise details of other aquisitions
Vil       Village wise details of Court cases pending, cases decided
and enhanced compensation
IX        Statement showing number of PAP's under each category.
X         The mobility matrix and land holdings.
XI        Details of Forest Land
XII        List of Bridges
XIII       Details of acquisition of houses and house plots
XIV         Supporting details of R & R of Vanala Village
XV         Implementation Schedule of Vanala Village
XVI         Project Afftected Persons due to private
patta land village wise details
XVII        Details of PAP due to acquisition of Govt. Land/Houses etc
XVIII        Details of PAP s due to acquisition of Patta lands
(Block IV & Vil)
XIX         Details of PAP due to acquisition of GovtVPatta lands
(Block IV & Vil)
XX         Total abstract of PAP
XXI-XXIV         Village wise PAPs and their entitlements and financial
implications for each of the four categories.
XXV         Combined abstract of the total rehabilitation and
resettlement - Financial out lay.
XXVI         Organisation Chart for implementing the PAPERP
XXVII- XXX         Budgetory requirements.
XXXI-XXXVII        Work Plans.
51



Annexure I
SRISAILAM RIGHT BRANCH CANAL - PROJECT AREA
Sector I
S.No      Mandal                        Name of the village
1.       Atmakur                  I.   Karivena
2.       Pamulapadu               2.   Madduru
3.   Vanala
4.   Vempenta
3.       Jupad Bunglow            5.   Thudicherla
4.       Midthur                  6.   Rollapadu
7.   Talamudipi
8.  Jalakanoor
9.  Alaganoor
5.       Gadivemula              10.   Manchalakatta
11.   Channakkapally
12.   Gadivemula
13.   Korrapoluru
14.   Bujunur
15.   Gadiga Revula
16.   Thirupadu
17.   Durvesi



SRISAILAM RIGHT BRANCH CANAL - PROJECT AREA
Sector II
S.No      Mandal                        Namiie of the village
I1.      Panyam                  25   Gorakallu
26   Kondajutur
27   Chilakala
28   Panyam
29   Konidedu
30   Bl3upanapadu
31   Alamur
32   Maddur
2.       Nandyal                 33   Moolasagaram
3.       Banaganapalli           34   Rarnatheertham
35   Beer avolu
36   Cheruvupalli
37   Venkatapuram
38   Nandavaram
39   Pandlapuram
40   Bathlulurupadu
41   Banaganapalli
42   Bhanumukkala
4  OwkAppP21pui_ri
4.       Owk                    t44    amavaram
45   MAettupally
4 6   Owk
47   Siriganiapalli
48   ObulapuramT)
49   Sangapatnam
50   Cherlopally
51   Chanugondla
52   Sunkesula
5.       Koilakuntla              53   Koilakuntla
6.       Kolimigundla            54   B. Singavaram
7.       Sanjamala               55   Perusomula
56 lDattapuram
i~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~5



CrNLFSANISATIlN CHART OF scCIo ECOtIC STUDY TEA:.
Project Director: Dr.K..',ohana Rao, MA.A.,Ph.d 1
Director, TCR & TI
Specialists:         1. Sri D.Ramachandra Raju,
M.A., M.Phil,
Joint Director, TCR & TI
2. Sri K.A.S. Hussain,
Rletd. Joint Director,
TCR & TI
3. or.Sudhak3r, MI.A.,Ph.d.
(USA)
Women|
Woman Sociologist   . Smt.K.Ai.Vinaya Kunari,
TeL                   Editor, TCn & TI
Te__                    1. Smt.1..Sujatha, :;a.A.,
Comouter cum Field
Investigator, TCRETI
2. Kum.Lilly, 1f.A.,
Investigator in the
-Projact,
3. Kum.Sridevi, M.A.,
Investigator in the
Project.
SURVZY TEAES FOr  Cc:rSUCT21G SCCIQ ZCt1L'JC STUDY OF PAPs
UNDER SRBC PHASE I
Team I                     Team II                 Team III                  Team IV                 Team V            Team VI          Teem VI!            Team VIIIl
Team Leader               Team Leader                Team Leader              Team Leader            Team Leader        Team L3adar    Team Leader    Team Leader
Sri K.Chandra Raju,       Sri X.V.i'.J<rishna                                 Sri S. :ohan,l.A.,    Sri P.Satyana-   Sri AS.l.Haleem Sri B.Ravin-   Sri V.'Jarayana,
M.Sc.,                   M'A.A.,      Sri lA.A.SS.Rau,   .       esearch  Ifficer      rayana,M.A.,                I.I.A.,  der, .'.A.,  MI.A.,
Field Offic2r, TC?&.TI   Fiald Of Zic3r,TCfI&TI    -            " '          TCR a TI                Research           Statistician   Research           Reseasch Investi-
Investirltors            Inveetiosters             TCR & Tv                  Invnst, Otorsc          Officer,TCORUTI   TO. &T TI        Inveetinator   gator, TOC- S TI
1. Sri P.Surendra,        1. Sri Ch.Lenin Babu,   Inv-stio ators              1. Sri A.D,agtagiri   Irveeticltors    Inveetinetors   C--  T               Investlc-itors
M Sri(Economics)          M.A.,(Agrl.aco),           S   C     rad                                l.Sri G.me         1.Sri V.Subba- invastioetors  l.Zri 3.:'aniK lao,
2. Sri 'I.Bhaskara Rao, 2. Sri P.Naglswara Rao, 1- Sri C-V;Prasad,               ,t.Phil                RaoM.Cor,7Sm,2.   rayadu,!I.A., I.Sri T.Sri-.   M.A. (B.L).
Ac.Bhrrasksr  la,2   r   .egeaaRe               A.A., ( ural Devt)
;A.A,(<Ecznomics)         M.A.,(Economics)        2. Sri Z4V.Ragahvulu) 2. Sri N.Srinivasa   2.SriV.Venkata   2.Sri ,.Srni-   ramulu,                  2.5ri J.raj Kumar,
3. Sri K.Bhaskara Aaju, 3. Sri P.1,ohan Rao,            .ASr    M.V.Ral a u      Reddy l.bA.MoPSil   Reddy,               vasa Rao,         M-.A.,(Socio-   S.S.'S.
(Ph.d)  M.A., B.2d,          M.A. , M.Fhil.       3. Sri P.11sriprasad,   ?A.A. I(P.hd)        M.A., (co)              logy)
M.^t., (Ph.d)             M,A., B.Ed.,            3. Sri Y.Srisailam,   3-       W '                m.Phi1           3.5ri K."'avin    1A.Phil(P.hd)
15.A., (Economics)      P.G Diploma in       3.Sri Maalli-        Kumar,         2.Sri V.Venka-
*  *Ed.,               ZlPM7i                 karjun,           B.Com.,          teswarulu,
M.A.,BLISC        Dioloma in       S.A., f._d.
If



Annexure II.
SCHEDULE OF SOCIO ECONOMIC SURVEY BY TRIBAL CULTURAL
RESEARCH & TRAINING INSTITUTE
A. Survey schedule and villages covered from 5-2-94 to 5-1-95 in the first leg:
SI.No.     Mandal                  Village          Period of Survey
1       Pamulapadu           1. Pamulapadu
2.  Bhanumukkalu
3. Chelimella
4. Kambalapalli         05-12-1994
5. Maddur                   to
6. Mittakandala         16-12-1994
7. Thummaluru
8. Vempenta
9. Vanala
2       Atmakur              1. Karivena
3       Jupadu Bungalow      1. Tudicherla
4       Panyam               1. Gorakallu
2. Kondajutur
3. Alamuru
4. Bhupanapadu
5. Chiiakala
6. Konidedu
7. Madduru
8. Panyam               17-12-1994
5       Nandyal              1. Mulasagaram              to
6       Gadivemula           1. Bujunuru              24-12-1994
2. Chennakkapalli
3. Durvesi
4. Gadigarevulu
5. Gadivemula
6. Korrapoluru
7. Manchalakatta
8. Thirupadu
7       Midthur              1. Alaganur
2. Jalakanur
3. Rollapadu
4. Talamudipi
8       Banaganapalli        1. Beeravolu
2. Bathulurpad
3. Cheruvupalli
4. Nandavaram           25-12-1994
5. Pandlapuram              to
6. Ramathirtham         28-12-1994
7. Venkatapuram
8. Bhanumukkala



9. Banaganapalli
9       Koilakuntla          1. Koilakuntla
10       Kolimigundla         1. B.Singavaram
11       Sanjamala            1. Dattapuram
2. Penusomula
12       Owk                  1. Singanapalli
2. Owk
3. Mettupalli
4. Obulapuram           29-12-1994
5. Ramavaram               to
6. Chanugondla          01-01-1995
7. Sunkesula
8. Sangapatnam
9. Cherlapalli
B. Survey schedules and villages covered in Block IV and Block VIil during second Jeg of
survey from 9-1-1995 to 24-1-1995
SI. No.  Block       Mandal              village      Date of survey
1 .    Block Vil    Banaganapalli  1.  Pandlapuram    10-1-1995
2.  Sarnkalapuram   11-1-1995
3.  Kaipa          12-1-1995
4.  Appalapuram    13-1-1995
5.  Nandavaram     23-1 -1995
Koilakuntla    6.  Chinnakopperla  22-1 -1995
2.    Block IV      Panyam         1.  Bhupanapadu   15-1-1995
16-1 -1995
2.  Madduru        17-1 -1995
3.  Alamuru        18-1-1995
4.  Gonavaram      20-1 -1995
5.  Konidedu       19-1-1995
C. Survey Schedules and Villagers covered during third leg of survey fro 03-03-1995 to
14-03-1995.
Mandal                             Village
Banaganapalli                      Banaganapalli
Owk                                Mettupalli
Cherlopalli
Owk
Obulapuram
Pamulapadu                         Chanugondla
Vemupenta
Vanala
Talamudipi
Maddur



VILLAGE-WISE NO. OF AWARDEES AND THOSE COVERED IN THE STUDY
SI   Name of the                                 No.nf   Nn.nf awardees
No.   Mandal          Village                 awardees  covered in the
study
1.        2.            3.                      4.             5
1.Atmakur         Karivena                     4               4
2.Pamulapadu    Maddtiru                      81              52
Vanala      -              300             214
Vempenta                   123              66
3.,upadu
bunglow       Tuidicherla                 119              10
4.Midthur         Rollapadu                   42               17
Talamudipi                 303             162
Jalakanur                   31              22
Alaganur                   163              87
5.Gadivemula    Manchalakatta                 150             48
Channakkapally              34              22
GiadivemLla                 17              15 
Korrapolur                 313             162
BukiunuLr                     1               1
Gadiqarev(ila               38              16
ThiruDadu                   33              22
Ourvesi                    105              81
6.Panyam         CGorakallu                  228              116
Kondakjuturu                63              39
Chilakala                   35              27
Panyam                     14R              83
Konidedu                   107              61
Bhupanapadu                 50              43
Alamur                       3               2
Maddur                      26              21
7.Nandyal         Mulasagaram                  18              14
I
158~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.1



l.     2.             .3.                      4.            S.
palli         Ramatheertham              24              17
BeeravolI                  an              34
Cheruvupalli               97              70
Venkatanuram               3.5             32
Nandavaram                109              e0
Pandlapuram                39              23
Bathtulurpadu              33              26
Banaqanapalli             160              45
Bhanumrukkala              73              3A
9.0wk            Ramavaram                   54             3.5
Methupalli                146              84
Owk                       167              92
Singanapalli               60              20
Obulapuram                 43              35
Sangapatnam                85              43
Cherlopally               279             113
Chengiqondla               49              37
Sunkesula                 5f1              34
10.Koilakuntla  Koilakunt.la                  8              4
11.Kolimigundla B.Singavaram                 15             12
12.SanJamala    Perusomula                   42             39
Patapuram                  30              19
Total                  4172           2409
BLOCK IV & VIII
1. Panyam        Alamuru                     42             24
G.onavaram                  8               6
Konidedu                  102              72
Madduru                   231             115
Bhupanapadu               226             143
2. Banagana-
Palli        Kaipa                       82             67
SankalaDniram             106              38
Pandlap)uram               91              49         U
Appa I apu ram            152             38 
Nandavaram                 47              28
3.Koilakuntla   Chinnakopoerla              137              78
Total                    1224             708
1----



Annexure /!
SRISAILAM  RIGHT BRANCH CANAL
DETAILS OF ACQUISITION  - MAIN CANAL
PROJECT SPREADSHEET
Details of Land Acquired (Acres)
Private              Assigned Land
No.   Mandal Name             No. Village Name
Total      Acquired     Total    Acquired    No. of     No. of    No. of     No. of
Holding                 Holding               Houses     Wells      Hand      Other
(W+D)       (W+D)       (W+D)     (W+D)                            Pumps   Structure
1    ATMAKUR                 1  KARIVENA                28.33         28.33      0.00       0.00        0          0         0         0
2    BANAGANAPALLI           1  APPALAPURAM              4.00          2.20      0.00       0.00         0         0         0         0
2  BANAGANAPALLI          345.78        71.88      3.50       3.50         5         0         1          1
3  BATHULURPAD            221.28        29.57      0.00       0.00         0         8         1          0
4  BEERAVOLU              238.37         7.05      0.00       0.00         0         0         0          0
5  BHANUMUKKALA           211.45        55.89      0.00       0.00         0         0         0          1
6  CHERUVUPALLI           425.13        72.42     16.89       1.31         0         0         0          1
7  NANDAVARAM             990.53        87.35      0.00       0.00         0         0         2          0
8  PANDLAPURAM            274.80        38.37      0.00       0.00         0         0         0          0
9  RAMATHIRTHAM           101.33        19.24      0.00       0.00         0         0         0          0
10  VENKATAPURAM          569.98        59.66       0.00      0.00         0          0         0         0
3    GADIVEMULA              1  BUJUMUR                   1.77         0.02      0.00       0.00         0         0         0         0
2  CHANNAKKAPALLI         124.45        25.74      0.00       0.00         0         0         0          0
3  DURVESI                696.59       112.34      0.93       0.78         0         1         0          0
4  GADIGAREVULA           151.80        13.14      0.39       0.39         1         0         0          0
5  GADIVEMULA             116.45        20.15      0.00       0.00         0         0         0          0
6  KORRAPOLUR             687.63       113.77     36.52      21.88         0         0         0          1
7  MANCHALAKATTA          213.36        41.27      0.00       0.00         1         0         0          0
8  THIRUPADU              247.91        24.69      2.00       0.30         0         0         0          0
4    JUPAD BUNGALOW              TUDICHERLA            283.17         86.86     10.57       6.78         0         0         0         0
5    KOILKUNTLA              1  CHINNAKOPPERLA           9.50          0.07      0.00       0.00         0         0         0         0
2  KOILAKUNTLA             45.08         5.19      0.00       0.00         0         0         0          0
6    KOLIMIGUNDLA                B.SINGAVARAM          163.17         23.40      0.00       0.00         0         0         1         0
7    MIDTHUR                 1  ALAGANUR               665.94        219.91      0.00      0.00          0         0         0         0
2  JALAKANUR              152.83        13.39      0.00       0.00         0         0         0          0
3  ROLLAPADU              136.34        25.32      1.00       0.00         0         0         0          0
Contd...



Details of Land Acquired (Acres)
Private              Assigned Land
No.   Mandal Name              No. Village Name
Total      Acquired     Total    Acquired     No. of     No. of    No. of     No. of
Holding                 Holding               Houses      Wells      Hand      Other
(W+D)       (W+D)       (W+D)      (W+D)                           Pumps   Structur
4  TALAMUDIPI            1367.07       219.06      38.74      15.86         0         0         0          1
8    NANDYAL                     MOOLASAGARAM            86.98         32.93      0.00       0.00         0         0          0         0
9    OWK                      1  CHANUGONDLA            485.80         42.88      8.26       3.26         0         0          0         0
2  CHERLOPALLI            889,63       417.71     163.84     146.52         0         0         0          0
3  METTUPALLI             641.69        250.66     17.77      16.55         0         0          0         0
4  OBULAPURAM             254.03        167.82     12.06      12.06         0         1          0         0
5  OWK                    278.14        186.53     93.56      91.44         2         0         2          0
6  RAMAVARAM              267.87        126.38      0.00       0.00         1         0         3          2
7  SANGAPATNAM            644.17        145.07     11.82       5.51         0         0         0          0
8  SINGANAPALLI           210.77         90.82      0.0       0.00         0         0          0         0
9  SUNKESULA              295.38         78.47      0.00       0.00         0         0          0         0
10    PAMULAPADU               1  MADDURU                 32.68          8.14     85.27      32.94         0         0          0         0
2  VANALA                 771.47        180.65     47.57      28.49        97         0          1         1
3  VEMPENTA               602.14         50.31     40.80      17.08         1         0          0         0
11    PANYAM                   1  ALAMUR                  29.84          8.22      0.00       0.00         0         0          0         0
2  BHUPANAPADU            433.97         18.03      2.50       0.32         0         0          0         0
3  CHILAKALA              352.63         22.59      1.60       0.12         0         0          0         0
4  GONAVARAM               37.50          1.74      0.00       0.00         0         0          0         0
5  GORAKALLU              758.38        187.73     30.42       0.90         0         4          2         1
6  KONDAJUTUR             312.26         10.28      4.70       0.00         0         0          0         0
7  KONIDEDU               586.29         42.34     47.68       5.40         1         0          0         1
8  MADDUR                 740.00         14.47      0.00       0.00         0         0          0         0
9  PANYAM                 627.38        120.27      0.00       0.00         0         0          0         0
12    SANJAMALA                1  DATTAPURAM             336.31         29.81      0.00       0.00         0         2          0         0
2  PERUSOMULA             518.28         82.37      9.51       2.78         0         1          0         1
TOTAL                                            18667.69       3732.58    687.90     414.19       1C9        17         13        11



Annexure V
SRISAILAM RIGHT BRANCH CANAL
DETAILS OF ACQUISITION - BLOCK IV & VilI
PROJECT SPREAD SHEET
Details of Land Acquired (Acres)
Private               Assigned Land
Mandal Name                  Village Name
Total      Acquired      Total    Acquired     No. of      No. of     No. of     No. of
Holding                  Holding                Houses      Wells       Hand      Other
(W+D)        (VV+D)      (W+D)      (W+D)                             Pumps   Structures
BANAGANAPALLI           1. APPALAPURAM             1032.979       40.2000       0.00       0.00         0          0          0          1
2. KAIPA                   771.650       27.5300      41.09       0.82          1          0         0          1
3. NANDAVARAM              371.200       13.4800      18.50       0.63          0          0         0          0
4. PANDLAPURAM             525.360       24.1600       0.00       0.00          1          0         0          0
5. SANKALAPURAM            665.430       28.3175       0.00       0.00         0           0         0          0
GADIVEMULA              6. MANCHALAKATTA             25.575        1.8600       0.00       0.00         0          0          0          0
KOILAKUNTLA             7. CHINNAKOPPERLA           635.770       24.6840       0.00      0.00          0          0          0          1
MIDTHUR                 8. ALAGANUR                  66.120       18.7100       0.00      0.00          0          0          0          0
PANYAM                  9. ALAMUR                   393.190        9.8300       0.00      0.00          0          0          0          0
10. BHUPANAPADU            1206.040       65.2560      33.00       0.15         0          0          0          0
11. GONAVARAM                37.840        1.7800       0.00       0.00         0           0         0          0
12. KONIDEDU                985.100       37.5400       6.00       0.00          1          0         0          0
13. MADDUR                 1681.380       48.1500      27.50       0.70         0           0         0          0
TOTAL                       8372.059      339.6375   126.0900      42.57         3          0          0          3



SRISAILAM RIGHT BRANCH CANAL                                                   Annexure VI
LAND ACQUISI TION STATUS
(Area in ha)
S.No.           Details                            Acquired                           To be acquired                                      Total
Patta   Revenue  Forest  Total       Patta    Revenue   Forest   Total             Patta   Revenue   Forest  Total
Land                                 Land                                          Land
1.  Main Canal Km 0-141
(including By-pass and OWK)     1513    479       269      2261        705.49  676.43       32.78    1414.7    2218.49  1155.43   301.78       3675.7
2.   Distributory System
(Blocks i to XVI)               337      -        -        337         1053    -            -        1053        1390     -        -             1390
Block IV & VIII                 17.78   -         -         17.78      136.95  -                     136.95     154.74   -                     154.74
3.   Road Network                    74       50       -         124        119     76           -        195         193      126      -              319
SubTotal (1)                    1924    629       269       2722       1877.49 792.43       32.78    2662.70    3801.49  1281.43   301.78     5384.70



Annexure WI
SRISAILAM RIGHT BRANCH CANAL
DETAILS OF ACQUISITION - MAIN CANAL
PROJECT SPREADSHEET
Details of Land Acquired (Acres)
Private              Assigned Land
No.    Mandal Name             No. Village Name
Total      Acquired     Total    Acquired     No. of      No. of    No. of     No. of
Holding                 Holding                Houses      Wells      Hand      Other
(W+D)        (W+D)      (W+D)      (W+D)                            Pumps   Structures
1    ATMAKUR                  1  KARIVENA                28.33         28.33       0.00       0.00         0         0          0          0
2    BANAGANAPALLI            1  APPALAPURAM               4.00          2.20      0.00       0.00         0          0         0          0
2  BANAGANAPALLI          345.78         71.88      3.50       3.50          5         0          1          1
3  BATHULURPAD            221.28         29.57      0.00       0.00          0         8          1         0
4  BEERAVOLU              238.37          7.05       0.00      0.00          0         0          0         0
5  BHANUMUKKALA           211.45         55.89      0.00       0.00          0         0          0         1
6  CHERUVUPALLI           425.13         72.42      16.89      1.31          0         0          0         1
7  NANDAVARAM             990.53         87.35      0.00       0.00          0         0          2         0
8  PANDLAPURAM            274.80         38.37      0.00       0.00          0         0          0         0
9  RAMATHIRTHAM           101.33         19.24      0.00       0.00          0         0          0         0
10  VENKATAPURAM           569.98         59.66      0.00       0.00         0          0         0          0
3    GADIVEMULA               1  BUJUMUR                   1.77          0.02      0.00       0.00         0          0         0          0
2  CHANNAKKAPALLI         124.45         25.74      0.00       0.00          0         0          0         0
3  DURVESI                696.59        112.34      0.93       0.78          0         1          0         0
4  GADIGAREVULA           151.80         13.14       0.39      0.39          1         0          0         0
5  GADIVEMULA             116.45         20.15      0.00       0.00          0         0          0         0
6  KORRAPOWR              687.63        113.77     36.52      21.88          0         0          0         1
7  MANCHALAKATTA          213.36         41.27      0.00       0.00          1         0          0         0
8  THIRUPADU              247.91         24.69      2.00       0.30          0         0          0         0
4    JUPAD BUNGALOW               TUDICHERLA            283.17         86.86      10.57       6.78         0          0         0          0
5    KOILKUNTLA               1  CHINNAKOPPERLA            9.50          0.07      0.00       0.00         0          0         0          0
2  KOILAKUNTLA             45.08          5.19       0.00      0.00          0         0          0         0
6    KOLIMIGUNDLA                 B.SINGAVARAM           163.17        23.40       0.00       0.00         0          0         1          0
7    MIDTHUR                  1  ALAGANUR               665.94        219.91       0.00       0.00         0          0         0          0
2  JALAKANUR              152.83         13.39       0.00      0.00          0         0          0         0
3  ROLLAPADU              136.34         25.32       1.00      0.00          0         0          0         0
Contd...



Details of Land Acquired (Acres)
Private               Assigned Land
No.   Mandal Name              No. Village Name
Total      Acquired      Total    Acquired     No. of     No. of     No. of     No. of
Holding                  Holding               Houses      Wells      Hand       Other
(W+D)        (W+D)      (W+D)       (W\+D)                           Pumps   Structures
4  TALAMUDIPI             1367.07       219.06      38.74      15.86          0         0          0          1
8    NANDYAL                      MOOLASAGARAM             86.98        32.93       0.00       0.00         0          0          0          0
9    OWK                      1  CHANUGONDLA             485.80         42.88       8.26       3.26         0          0          0          0
2  CHERLOPALLI             889.63       417.71     163.84     146.52          0         0          0          0
3  METTUPALLI              641.69       250.66      17.77      16.55          0         0          0          0
4  OBULAPURAM              254.03        167.82     12.06      12.06          0         1          0          0
5  OWK                     278.14        186.53     93.56      91.44         2          0          2          0
6  RAMAVARAM               267.87        126.38      0.00       0.00          1         0          3          2
7  SANGAPATNAM             644.17        145.07     11.82       5.51          0         0          0          0
8  SINGANAPALLI            210.77         90.82      0.00       0.00          0         0          0          0
9  SUNKESULA               295.38         78.47      0.00       0.00          0         0          0          0
10    PAMULAPADU               1  MADDURU                  32.68          8.14      85.27      32.94         0          0          0         0
2  VANALA                  771.47        180.65     47.57      28.49         97         0          1          1
3  VEMPENTA                602.14         50.31     40.80      17.08          1         0          0          0
11    PANYAM                   1  ALAMUR                   29.84          8.22       0.00       0.00         0          0          0         0
2  BHUPANAPADU             433.97         18.03      2.50       0.32          0         0          0          0
3  CHILAKALA               352.63         22.59      1.60       0.12          0         0          0          0
4  GONAVARAM                37.50          1.74      0.00       0.00          0         0          0          0
5  GORAKALLU               758.38        187.73     30.42       0,90          0         4          2          1
6  KONDAJUTUR              312.26         10.28      4.70       0.00          0         0          0          0
7  KONIDEDU                586.29         42.34     47.68       5.40          1         0          0          1
8  MADDUR                  740.00         14.47      0.00       0.00          0         0          0          0
9  PANYAM                  627.38        120.27      0.00       0.00          0         0          0          0
12    SANJAMALA                1  DATTAPURAM              336.31         29.81       0.00  -    0.00         0          2          0         0
2  PERUSOMULA              518.28         82.37      9.51       2.78          0         1          0          1
TOTAL                                             18667.69       3732.58     687.90     414.19       109         17         13        11



Annexure VI 1-,
SRISAILAM RIGHT BRANCH CANAL
DETAILS OF ACQUISITION - BLOCK IV & Vill
PROJECT SPREAD SHEET
Details of Land Acquired (Acres)
Private               Assigned Land
Mandal Name                  Village Name
Total      Acquired      Total    Acquired     No. of     No. of     No. of     No. of
Holding                  Holding               Houses      Wells      Hard       Other
(W+D)        (W+D)       (W+D)      (W+D)                            Pumps   Structures
BANAGANAPALLI           1. APPALAPURAM            1032.979       40.2000       0.00       0.00         0          0         0          1
2. KAIPA                   771.650      27.5300      41.09       0.82          1         0          0          1
3. NANDAVARAM              371.200       13.4800     18.50       0.63          0         0          0          0
4. PANDLAPURAM             525.360      24.1600       0.00       0.00          1         0          0          0
5. SANKALAPURAM            665.430      28.3175       0.00       0.00          0         0          0          0
GADIVEMULA              6. MANCHALAKATTA            25.575        1.8600       0.00       0.00         0          0         0          0
KOILAKUNTLA             7. CHINNAKOPPERLA          635.770       24.6840       0.00       0.00         0          0         0          1
MIDTHUR                 8. ALAGANUR                 66.120       18.7100       0.00       0.00         0          0         0          0
PANYAM                  9. ALAMUR                  393.190        9.8300       0.00       0.00         0          0         0          0
10. BHUPANAPADU            1206.040      65.2560      33.00       0.15         0          0          0         0
11. GONAVARAM                37.840        1.7800      0.00       0.00          0         0          0          0
12. KONIDEDU                985.100      37.5400       6.00       0.00          1         0          0          0
13. MADDUR                -1681.380      48.1500      27.50       0.70          0         0          0          0
TOTAL                      8372.059      339.6375   126.0900      42.57         3          0          0          3



SRISAILNM RIGHT BRANCH CANAL             C      V
Details of Court cases under Land Acquisition
Details
of Settled Cases
No.of
Si.  Name of the            No.of      cases filed                         Total
No.  Village               Awardees   in Courts                 Award      Amount
Number    Amount    After
in lakhs  Enhance
ment
in lakhs
01.  Panyam                  148          93            35        17.94    46.34
02.  Gorakallu               228          58            25        15.16    36.28
03.  Manchalakatta           150          81            42         5.73    11.87
04.  Channakkapalli           34          19            19         0.88      5.93
05.  Thalamudipi             286         116            85        12.80    22.99
06.  Vanala                  177         147           108        34.63   151.65
07.  Madduru                  26          11             -          -        -
08.  Rollapadu                42           26           10         1.02      2.45
09.  Gadivemula               20           20            -          -        -
10.  Koilakuntla               8            8            -          -        -
11.  Thudicherla             102           78            -          -        -
12.  Durvesi                 105            3            -          -        -
13.  Perusomula               42           30            -          -        -
14.  Alganur                 163         114             -          -        -
15.  Moolasagarm              18            7            7         2.47      8.43
16.  Jalakanur                31           16
17.  Sunkesula                51            8            -          -        -
18.  Vempenta                 65           22
19.  Bhanumukkala             73            2
20.  Konidedu                107           52
21.  Kondajutur               63           26
22.  Chilakal                 35           16
23.  Bhupanapadu              50            9
24.  Alamuru                    9           9
25.  Ramavaram                54           25
26.  Owk                     134           87
27.  Cherlopalli             170           61
28.  Singanapalli             60           21
29.  Chanugondla              41           32
30.  B.Singavaram             15           15
31.  Cheruvupalli             97           67
32.  Sangapatnam              82           66
33.  Bathlurupadu             33           31
34.  Ramatheerdam             26           26
35.  Venkatapuram             35           14
36.  Banaganapalli           157         137
37.  Pandlapuram              39           34
38.  Nandavaram              109           45
39.  Mettupalli              134           81
40.  Korrapoluru             298           16                       -        -
3517        1729          331        90.63   285.94



Annexure: IX(a)
SRISAILAM  RIGHT BRANCH CANAL
PROJECT AFFECTED PERSONS - (MAIN CANAL)
Number of PAF's                                          Classiffication of Total PAP's
No. Mandal Name       No. Village Name      Losing    Major Losing  Major Losing Major Requirng Requirng Requinng  Total   Tribals  SC's OBC's Others
Land    Child  House  Child  Land & Child Rehabil- Resettle- Resettle- No. of
House        ilitaton   ment   ment &   PAP's
Rehabili-
tation
1 ATMAKUR                KARIVENA             4        0      0      0       0     0       4       0       0        4        0      0      4      0
2 BANAGANAPALLI        1 APPALAPURAM          1        1      0       0      0     0       2       0        0       2        0      0      2      0
2 BANAGANAPALLI   14            9      1       1      4      0     23       2        4      28        0      0    16    12
3 BATHULURPAD          6        5      0       0      0     0      11       0        0      11        0      0      5      6
4 BEERAVOLU            5        2      0       0      0     0       7       0        0       7        0       0     3      4
5 BHANUMUKKALA    19           15      0      0       0     0      34       0        0      34        2      0    16      16
6 CHERUVUPALLI        19        8      0       0      0     0      27       0        0      27        0      4    12    11
7 NANDAVARAM          24       18      0       0      0     0      42       0        0      42        0     10    10    22
8 PANDLAPURAM          9        4      0      0       0     0      13       0        0      13        0      0      2     11
9 RAMATHIRTHAM         7        6      0       0      0     0      13       0        0      13        0      2      5      6
10 VENKATAPURAM         4        1      0       0      0     0       5       0        0       5        0      0      1      4
3 GADIVEMULA           1 CHANNAKKAPALLI  12            9      0       0      0     0      21       0        0      21        0      0    11      10
2 DURVESI             30       39      0       0      0     0      69       0        0      69        0      15    27     27
3 GADIGAREVULA         1        0      1       1      0     0       1       2        0       3        2      0      1      0
4 GADIVEMULA           5        2      0       0      0     0       7       0        0       7        0      0      2      5
5 KORRAPOLUR          77       87      0      0       0     0    164        0        0     164        0     66    70      28
6 MANCHALAKATTA   18           16      0       0      1     0      34       0        1      35        0      6    17      12
7 THIRUPADU            3        6      0      0       0     0       9       0        0       9        0      0      0      9
4 JUPAD BUNGALOW         TUDICHERLA          47       36      0      0       0     0      83       0        0      83        0     31    37      15
5 KOILKUNTLA             KOILAKUNTLA          1        1      0      0       0     0       2       0        0       2        0      0      0      2
6 KOLIMIGUNDLA           B.SINGAVARAM         4        5      0      0       0     0       9       0        0       9        0      5      4      0
7 MIDTHUR              I ALAGANUR            28      26       0      0       0     0      54       0        0      54        0     16    25      13
2 JALAKANUR            1        0      0      0       0     0       1       0        0       1        0      0      1      0
3 ROLLAPADU            6       13      0      0       0     0      19       0        0      19        0      5    12       2
4 TALAMUDIPI          59       44      0      0       0     0    103        0        0     102        0     23    37      42
8 NANDYAL                MOOLASAGARAM         5        6      0      0       0     0      11       0        0      11        0      0      7      4
9 OWK                  1 CHANUGONDLA          5        4      0      0       0     0       9       0        0       9        0      8      0      1
2 CHERLOPALLI         70       53              0      0     0    123        0        0     123        4     41    47    31
3 METTUPALLI          55       42      0      0       0     0      97       0        0      97        0     52    12    33
4 OBULAPURAM          24       16      0       0      0      0     40       0        0      40        0       6    25      9



Numberof PAF's                                            Classiffication of Total PAP's
No. Mandal Name       No. Vi'lage Name      Losing   Major Losing  Major Losing Major Requinng Requirng Requirng  Total   Tribals  SC's OBC's Others
Land    Child  House  Chikd  Land& Child Rehabil- Resettle- Resettle- No. of
House        ilitaton   ment   ment &   PAP's
Rehabili-
tation
5 OWK                 76       47      0      0       2     0    123       0         2     125        2      8    39      76
6 RAMAVARAM           14       17      0      0       1     0      31      0         1      32       13      8    11       0
7 SANGAPATNAM         14       15      0      0       0     0      29      0         0      29        0      2    13      13
8 SINGANAPALLI        12        7      0      0       0     0      19      0         0      19        0      3    16       0
9 SUNKESULA           15       11      0      0       0     0      26     0         0      26        0      5    17       4
10 PAMULAPADU         1 MADDURU              38      27       0      0       0     0      65      0        0       65        0      2    51      12
2 VANALA              50       41     84     57      13    21      91    141        34     266       14    159    49      44
3 VEMPENTA            38       29      1      2       0     0      67      3         0      70        1     40    25       4
11PANYAM              1 ALAMUR                3       2       0      0      0      0       5      0        0        5       0       0     5       0
2 BHUPANAPADU          1        1      0      0       0     0       2      0         0       2        0      0     2       0
3 CHILAKALA            2        0      0      0       0     0       2      0         0       2        0      0      1      1
4 GORAKALLU           44       30      0      0       0     0      74      0         0      74        0     15    45      14
5 KONDAJUTUR           1        0      0      0       0     0       1      0         0       1        0      0      0      1
6 KONIDEDU             9        4      0      0       1      1     13      0         2      15        0      2      9      4
7 MADDUR               1        1      0      0       0     0       2      0         0       2        0      0     0       2
8 PANYAM              38       42      0      0       0     0      80      0         0      80        0      3    61      16
12SANJAMALA           1 DATTAPURAM            3       1       0      0      0      0      4       0        0        4       0       0     3       1
2 PERUSOMULA          12        6      0      0       0     0      18      0         0      18        0      3    12       3
TOTAL             934      755     87     61      22    22   1689    148         44    1881       38    541   770    532



Annexure IX (b)
PROJECT AFFECTED PERSONS DUE TO LOSS OF LAND - BLOCK IV & Vill
Mandal Name        Village Name    Total Number  Land    Major    Total No
of PAFs  HOLDERS   CHILD    of PAPs
BANAGANAPALLI      APPALAPURAM         2        2         1         3
KAIPA               1        1         0         1
NANDAVARAM          2        2         2        4
PANDLAPURAM         2        2         0        2
GADIVEMULA         MANCHALAKATTA       1         1        1         2
MIDTHUR            ALGANUR             7        7         5        12
PANYAM             ALAMUR              1         1        1         2
BHUPANAPADU        10        10       10        20
KONIDEDU            1        1         1        2
MADDUR             12        12        7        19
39       39        28       67



ANNEXURE-X
HBILITY  MATRIX OF AWARDEE$ FROM PRE ACQUI8TI0N PERIOD  TO  POST ACWISITOIN PERIOD
Before arquisition                        No.oP awardees after acqulaition
31  Land holdings        Ito.of                  '3.75          3.75-7.50       7.50 and        Total                      ,
1Ho    in aeres         awardees                                                 above           No. of       ,..
awardees
1.    (3.75              928       403 (43.4)  525 (55.6)             --            --             928
(81.7)          (87.4)                                       (38.0)
2.   3.75-7.50            573       56(11.5)   224 (.39.1)  283 (49.4)               --            573
(23.8)
3,   7.50 and above   908           24(2.0)        30 (3.4)    140 (15.4)        714(78.8)          908  '     ,
(4.9)          (3.8)         (f33.1)         (100.0)         (37.7)
------------------------------------------------           --------------------     --    -!
Total                24n9       493(20.5)   779(32.3)   423 (17.6)           714(29.5)         2409
BLOCK IV A VIII                                      ',  i
1.       0-3.75           179         4(2.2%)   175(97.8%)          --             --              179(100%)
(25.3 %)      f100X)      (84.5%)                                           (25.8%),
2.   3.75-7,50            1f8          __          32119.0%)    138(81.0X)         --               168(100%)
(23.7%)                     (12.5X         (89.5%)                            (28.7%)
3.   7.50 & above         361          --           --             lf(4.4%)      345(95.f%)         3fi(100X)
(51.0%)                                    (10.5%)        (100%)            (51.0%)
Total                 708         4(0.5X)   207(29.2%)    152(21.5%)   345(48.7X)               708(100%)
(100%)       (100M)        (100%)          (100%)
_-------------_-_ --_   _    -----     -   --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
.        ~~~~~~~~.
- " -
",j"'f'tX



SRISAILAM RIGHT BRANCH CANAL                           +newye Xi
DETAILS OF FOREST LAND
Si.   Name of the                                            Total extent        Taken                Yet to be taken
No.   Reserve Forest            Canal Mileage                of Forest land    possesssion            in possesion
required   (ha.)    (ha.)                  (ha.)
1.     Ghani               KM 43.08 to KM 50.91                  80.43              80.43               -
2.     Panyam             Gorakallu Bypass at KM 50.22           27.00              27.00
3.     Ghani              KM 56.433 to KM 58.56                  20.07              20.07               --
4.     Panyam             KM 63.558 to KM 70.779                 18.32              18.32               --
5.     Gulamaliabad       KM 90.938 to 90.988                     0.50               0.50               --
6.     Gulamaliabad       KM 98.206 to KM 99.214                 10.60              10.60
7.     Gulamaliabad       KM 99.214 to KM 100.716                13.05              13.05               --
8.     Ramavaram          KM 104.714 to KM 106.014               10.36              10.36               --
9.     Owk                KM 108.014 to KM 115.584               15.75              15.75               --
10.    Owk                KM 99.214 to KM 116.481                77.41              72.63                4.78
11.    Owk                 Owk Reservoir                         28.00              --                  28.00
301.49            268.71               32.78



LIST OF BRIDGES ON SRISAnAM RIGT ERANCH CANAL         Xl.
MAIN CPL
S.No.      Type of the Bridges             Mileage
Kms.
01.       single lane Bridge               1.86
02.       Single lane Bridge               3.706
03.       Double lane Bridge               6.593
04.       single lane Bridge               9.271
05.       Single lane Bridge              10.212
06.       Single lane Bridge              12.866
07.       Single lane Bridge              15.769
08.       Double lane Bridge              16.566
09.       Single lane Bridge              18.389
10.       Double lane Bridge              30.486
11.       Single lane Bridge              31.786
12.       Single lane Bridge              37.689
13.       Single lane Bridge              39.471
14.       Single lane Bridge              46.365
15.       Single lane Bridge              51.180
16.       Single lane Bridge              54.555
17.       Double lane Bridge              64.934
18.       Single lane Bridge              75.20
19.       Double lane Bridge              77.863
20.       Single lane Bridge              79.471
21.       Double lane Bridge              82.600
22.       Single lane Bridge              83.699
23.       Single lane Bridge              87.20
24.       Double lane Bridge              88.30
25.       Double lane Bridge              90.887
26.       Double lane Bridge              92.451
27.       Single lane Bridge              93.808
28.       Single lane Bridge              95.360
29.       Single lane Bridge              97.08
30.       Single lane Bridge              98.349
31.       Single lane Bridge             108.052
32.       Single lane Bridge             110.376
33.       Single lane Bridge             117.00
34.       Single lane Bridge             120.532
35.       Double lane Bridge             12.471
36.       Single lane Bridge             128.350
37.       Single lane Bridge             131.700
38.       Single lane Bridge             133.525
39.       Single lane Bridge             137.304
40.       Double lane Bridge             137.994



SRISAILAM RIGHT BRANCH CANAL
PROJECT AFFECTED PERSONS ECONOMIC RAHABILITATION PROGRAMME              Mnnex,yie XJiI
DETAILS OF DISPLACED FAMILIES
Nos                Nos.
Loosing Houses       Loosing House           Classification of PAPs
sl.                                                          and land
No.     Name of the Village                                  and _land
PAF   Major  Total  PAF  Major  Total  Total  SC    ST            BC      OTHERS
Child               Child
1.      Banaganipalli                1      l      2      4      -       4      6    -      -          4         2
2.      Gadigarevula                 1      1      2      -      -      -       2    -      2          -         -
3.      Manchalakatta                -       -     -      1              1           -      -          -         1
4.      OWK                          -      -      -      2      -       2      2    -      -          -         2
5-      Ramavaram                    -      -             1      -       1      1    -      -          1         -
6.      Vanala                      84     57   141      13    21      34    175  148       9         15         3
7.      Vempemta                     1       2     3      -      -       -      3    -      -          3         -
8.      Konidedu                            -      -      1      1       2      2    -      -          -         2
Grand Total                87      61   148      22    22      44    192  148    11          23        10



ANNEXURE - XIV
Cost Estimnates of Rehabilitation Centres at Vanala village
Home Stead Land:
Total No. of affected families                         200 Nos.
including major children
Number of Rehabilitation Centres proposed              1 No.
Extent of home stead land required = 200x0.02          4.00 ha.
Total area required considering 40% of home plot
area for roads and other purposes       4.00x40/100 =  1.60 ha
Add 50% for other amenities
such as public buildings etc.           5.6 x 50/1 00 =  2.80 ha
Total land required                                    8.40 ha
Government land available under
survey Nos- 637A, 637B                                 5.26 ha
Private land proposed to be acquired
under survey No. 638 A                                 3.14 ha.
Cost of 3.14 a @ 3.21 lakh/ha
including 30% solution                   3.14 x 3.21 =   Rs. 10.08
2.   Roads:
12M (40') wide W,B,M. roads for main road
and 7.50 M (24')wide W.B.M. roads and internal
roads in rehabilitation centre:
a) 12M (40') wide internal road          = 297M or    0.30 Kms
b) 7.50M (24') wide internal road                      2.00 Kms.
Considering 12M (40') wide road is equivalent
to twice that of 7.5 M (24') wide road.
Total equivalent length of 7.5 M (24')
wide road = 2x0.30 + 2.00 = 2.60 Kms.
Cost of 2.60 Krns W B M. road @ Rs. 2.0 lakhs
per 1 Km at centre = 2.60 x 2.0 = 5.20 lakhs           Rs.5.20
Add extra for approach roads & culverts etc            Rs. 2.30
Total                                                  Rs. 7.50
9



3.   Community Buildinc:v
Cost of School Building & commnunity hall etc.            Rs.3.00
4.   External Electrification for rehabilitation Centre.:
a) cost of external electrification including service
lines @ Rs. 1,50,000/- per 1 Km for total length
of Roads.
(0.30+2.00) @ Rs. 1.50 lakhslper 1 Km                     Rs. 3.45
b) Street lighting                                         Rs. 0.55
c) Maintenance charges @ Rs. 40 lakhs
per year for five years                                    Rs. 2.00
Total                                                      Rs. 6.00
5.   Cost of Water SuPply:
Cost of bore wells @ Rs. 35,000/- per
each bore well for 2 bore wells including
casing pipes, and pumps cost of platform etc. = 2x 0.35    Rs.0.70
6.   Providing houses for each family at
Rehabilitation Centre including sanitary
facilities = 175 x 10,000                                  Rs.17.50
10



A NN1- .'X U !U ,-X V
Si:,'TTLi m:I T !IM  uE;iI;I .[IL1TATt[ ON ,N   FOR'  VANALA VILLAGE
Si.    I te;.: of iwork                              Extent        Cost
No.                                                 N os/ha        (Lakhs)
2                                     3              4
I. ACQUISITIC'-' OF L,AND ATCD HOUSES ETC
1. Tot a-  families  affected  kNos)              97
2. N n jor Chiildren                              78
Future  Development                            25
Tota 1                                       2 00
2. A rea reiluiired for house plots )
GO 200 Sq!LiL per fav.ily  (20v10lI)          ) 4
internal roeds, other a.tuenities
3. Patta  lands to  be acquired in-)
eluding  30,0 Solatium=3.I4x3.21)             3.14       10.08
Sub ToVLa1  (I)                                          10.08
I I .    . iT L.T.. EL   T PiACK ;.G E
P. l'ri:.,ary facilities
1. Develo ...I.11t of layout U   . .lO,00J/   5.40             0,84
hla 
29  For:a.Ation of npproicli roads    ,,lm .  0.30             1.50
3. Electricity                                      -          6.00
4. Drinking  lVnter f aci li tics                    -         0.70
Sub Total  A.A)                                          9.7
3. tcc!lndary  Facilitics
1. Interiial roads 2 ,iflS                       2.00 Km    6.00
2. PubLic Buildings
i)  Couoi.;unity  hall cu:!i library)
iiiettiding  school buildings)                 1 No.       3.00
ii)  Diiobi Ghiots                                  1 No.       0.50
iiiJ  Buts 'lShelters                                 1 No.      0.50
Sub  Total tk3)                                          io.oo
C. House grant 0 10,000/-  per)
f,'Inily incLudinug  sprnitary  )
facilities                        )          175         17.50
Stl) tot,-l I                                            36.54
! !eesett le  u'tt P'ack a;e )



--- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1                   2                        3         4
1. Maintenance grant  500/- per    147        6.615
month per family for 9 months
2. Cattle maintenance grant RS.2C0   18        0.216
per month per family per
6 months
3. Financlal assistance for income  266    13.30
generating schemes .. 5,000/-
per family (subsidy)
4. Subsidy U? Rs.600/- per family      147     0.682
for smokeless chulas
5. Assistance under       FLAC-A Type..   199  1.99
6. Voc. TFP -f
(a) Grant                           53      1.59
(b)  Loan                          53    (.41  )
Sub Total (FRehabilitation)
IV. CM-MU.LNITY' OATRTICIP.ATI%I .\VM D i'SCMLLk.A2OUS   2.00
V. Outlay for F.S.C. and housing
loans funds to be raised by NGC'
including Nationalised Banks
(N11ot Included in paclcage)
il3 F-arm service centre (FSC) thro Jgh
W.G' .f, .                         200      2.00
Grand Total                                75.213
Deduct amounts included in Village
Specific Action Plan for Vanala
(R7.17 .50+6.615+0.216+13.20+0.082+
1.99+=.59)= 42.093
Net Total ( 75.213 - 42.093) = 33.12           33.12



TRIRD  DNYHRA PP-A!ESH IRRIGTION PROJECT           A nx    e-V
(6REC Su4b przosctl
RESETTLEhEAT AiD REI44BIL1TATION
Details of FAFs diue to aviuisitioii of catta laods.
?$JtiPER OF PAPS                  Total   i Total 
Na of                       -----------------------                             1acid   : co  eii- 
SI.       The          :Nam~eof the  : S           X   :         C A&T E                 : Aouired    satiom
:tiale  if4als: SC  : ST  : 8 :Gthersi Total    (A/cs)          Rs. 
1:   2               ~~~~~~~3 :4  :5  :6  7    :9   10:   It   12
I i Atrdakur        :-,ariqena      :     3:     It                4:               4:    28.330    211757:
2: BanaQanavilli    Beerv'olu        :    7:    0:   -             :3     4         7:    2.770:   66400
IT:8tu1ra                                10:     I:   -         :          6:      11:    10.710:  196085:
4:                    Chernmuai    :   23      4:   4:   -:12           11:      27:    16.770:  238717
5:                  :Ndavara             38      4:    0 It     :10:    22:        42:   28.940,  343896:
6:                   Pandaliuraii   i   12:      1     -I          2 2:    11:     13:    15.210:  439584:
7:                  RPithirthain         It 11   2  2 :        :  5:       6:      13:    9.760:  231090:
8:                  :Vsqataplurae         4:      1     - - I              4:       5       7. ON3: 94521:
9:                  :Ehwiumuka1a         30:     4:           2:16:    16:         34:   28.650:  482573:
10:                    B an a3an a a I Ii  2 23I  0:   -           12:    11:       23:    19.350:  651049:
It:                   Aupelaou'a-m         2 :    0     -              2 : - :       2 :    2.200          -
12   G adi4eftlla    :Chnanna ka1i aII     16     5 S              11:    10:       21:    17.090   271335
13:                   DuveNi          :   63:    5:   14:   -27:    27:             68:   l5.055  2654814:
14:                  :adioa-irvna  :    I:    -:   -I- :                     :       1      0.740:    29777
15:                  8a-diveiuIa           5:    2: -           :  2:    5           7:    12.340   260725:
16                    1( iorranclur    i  134 i   21:  66 :        70 : 19 :       155 : 66.750 :1277316
17:                  Mlanchalakattat   31 i    3:    6:   -   17           11:      34~  19.8201  365171:
IB:                   Th irup adui         9:     0            -:     :    9:        9:   20.7101    19423
19 : JupDdi bano51ow   Thudicherli        68      7:  25:   -    5:    15 :         75:   50.660 :1042i3595
20: Ko ilIakun t Ia    :Koilakuntla   :    2:    0: -:-                     2:       2:    1.520:   4000
21 :O ~I iiihiund Ia   :  .Sinmavaran      6:    3: 5               4:    - :        9:      9.4(00   151276:
22  ~~~idthur    A.:   . f.I ao u r  i  43 :   12 :16 :-:26 :    3            55:   101.69] :1013426
23   ~jalakanur                                                I       1               0.140      3943



- - - -- - -- -- - -- - -- -- -- -- -- - -- - - -- - - -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ------ - - - - ---- - -r
I:         2        :       3       : 4   : 5  :  6:   7:   8  : 9           10 :    1         :   12
24                  :Thalamadfiai   :  70j    14:   L'        :32 :   40       84:   93.370: 100083:
25:                 :Rallaoadu      s   17:    1:   5:   -:  7:    2:           14:   12.060:  132864:
26 :             :               :  27:    4 :  .     : 13 :1:R    a   : r2I:I  64.600 :  MM :7
27:                 .Sina.aaoalIi  :  15>   4:           3: 316:    - :         91,  49.410: 110260:
8:                                      65:       :  2:    :    :   54:         74:  12.23   34654
29:                 :Methaaiil  :   63:   17:  38:   -:10:   32:                8):  145.770: 299826:
30:                 :Chanueardla  3:            0:   2                  I- 1     3:    7.390:   61575:
31:                 :'.fesa         :  2.5:       :   5:   -: 17:    4:         26 :   22.420:2033W44:
32:Sanatnafa                        24      3      I         13      3       27     32.2:  961851:
:?.              :CWar1o~a11i   : C2:   10:  36:           :34:   22:        9:   14:.45  314484
34                  :obs.uiuram    :   2 9    : 7 : 4    -: 23:   .9:           36:      0.39(0:  6501594:
35 :Panya             GorakaLlu     :  6:   4 : 15:           :   :   13 :      73      5.135 : 2792508
36:                 :KIn;daiutr    :    1:    0:-:-:-:                  1:        1:    0.450:       592:
37                  :aur            :             :     :     :   :5                     7.40    33677:
3:                  :E  ana apata    : i:    0:    I: -:  i:                      I:    0.532):    6995:
39:                 :Chilaala       :   2:    0:   -           :   :      :       2:    0.750:    3      :69
40:                 :Kanile         :   12:    1:   2:   -:   2:                13: 1:   11.015:  189210:
41:                 :addr           :0                                  2        2       1.060   14034:
42:                 :p&ymi          :   65:   15    3           61      16      S0    93.        1201876 :
436:Pamuiand        :maddur             15:    4:   -:   -:19:            :      19:    5.410   108614:
*                .               .      .      a     .     .    .         .     .* 
38*                ShSpSaal: L                  : -        -:  1:    -:         1: U3             WSS
44;                 ;e:nta              : 1     6:  21:       :15:        :     37:   32.9:  56181:
45:                    anaia            61     12    4      6:28:   35           73    83.99:  2088656:
47: Sa:aa              attaoam    :   4:    0:    I: -:  4:    1:                 4:   11.300:  444517:
48:                  Peutsia            14      0     3          6      3        14    22.460   363883:
49: Nandal          :  lasar        :   2:    4:  -:                   -4:  :     2:   1.00 t 1087566
: 1247:  192: 1  :    :21:6   : 458 :   1439: 1657.539  3210613
43 -- -0        :          -    :         L5: -4:     -   -:-17:       -    'q: - -------



Annexure-XVII
THIRD 8421RA FRADEUH IR9R169TION PROJECT
(RIO Sob Pr~ojetl
KSESTTLEMENT AND EHBILITOTION
Details of PAPs due to acquisition of oat;at6omt lands.iIH4uses etc.
-                                                    JK.O  PATS                       Lands Acquiredi in Ac.   t        I        Coe0esotion Faid  (in NJ.l
SI.:    The              Nams of the  :EI X                   C AS6TE                                   :        Houses:                     :
Mo.  i   Meedal            VilIse-                    --:------- ------------: 0atta    -Govt.     Total : Nos.) :atta  -Govt.                 Houses  i  Tatel1
I  ~~~~~~~~~-ale Jmelse:SC .ST   ! C  0thers: Total:                             :        I       I          I        1         :I
*        .  - -  -  -~  ~ ~~- :   ----- --_-__---
I:          2                                                     L            0        t       1 13:40 ::6 01 : 1: 21 : 4   :15 16:17                     to1 t
I: Ban99anapelli    B asaoasapalli:    0:     I 1 -       -: 4 : 2 :            6     5 030    3.00    6.80       5 0    :17463  I1201870 :5067731:   6537069i
2gadivfmula      :So.7i              1:0 I               -7 :                 I        -t                                         42642: i              42642:
3              E~~~adioar'evu1a : 2 :   0      -     2 :-   : -            2 :               - :0.00 :            I t                      90:         980 
-4:                 :Itotvaoour         8:    1:- -: :                  9:       9:       -:R1l1,l1                -           -:   94030:                  94930:
:                  :Manchalakatta:    1:    0:  -                               I  - :  :   3.26:  -:    26:    1         580922:       -            :    59022
6 : Juoud Bueqlcw  tT7u0iche-r1a   :   6:t   2 :6 :-            2 :                :             6.15 :6,15 :                        6120 : -              361,20
7:lidtlur         Rlolloada           3:    2:  -     -:5: -    :              0     0.25:       -    5,25:              29022:          :    -     :     29922:
9:            :~~~~Talaudwai   :16       2   11   -      5:       2:      16:       -:     .W0   6.00:      -            -     43901:                4290
q  Nk   ~      Obulanuram         4: t 0        2:-: 2:                    4:       -      6.6: -6.56:       -             :  221729:     -          221729:
18:                 :llatiarar           1I   0:-:-              I  I::          1     4.11:       -:4,11          1    :126909:g        - :   39600:    176009
II:                 :060               47:    4:   6:   2:21:    22:             1:  20.43:  91.34:116,77:    2    :1985020:6421913:                  t   66260433:
12:                 :fMethuaalli   :10:        2 i14 -          2:      1:I     17:   4.1( :16.55:i20.65:               :6000611026:            -          671026:
13:t                iChanti9oudla:i   5:       I 1   6.         6:                         :2.06:2.96:            -            :   29090:    -            29090:
14:                 :sancaaatoae  :-           2:   1:-i Ia             I        2:       -:      .82:  2,92:      -    :      -     916500     -          916500
10:                 :Oberl4111         20:    2       0:   4:13:         :      31:  40.74:  4G.0:92.70:    -            1270583:  183:         -     : 1379413:
16  Panyis          :Serakallu    :     I:    0:-:-:-                   1:            1.34:0.20   1,64:            -       1441:         -:                  1441:
17:                 IKoeiedu            2 3:    0:-:           -:       2:       2:t      -:4.72:4,72:             I    t      -:I96701:        -    :      9701:i
18 iPaeiulao:du     tMIadduru      :  39:    7:   2:-           32     12:      46:       - 28.40:29.40:    -                  -:3743900 i                 374390:
19:                 Iteseenta      a27:    7:10:   1t10:    4:                  24:         :  14.66:14.66:    1               - t  127099:i   2500        120L599:
20:                 .Yosala            t 66:   27:10:   9:21:    9:    109:   8.277    17.Z25:2.00    97    :224020:t 224709:  600626:   1100905:
21 :Smaniala        FPersaeRula         4 4:    0:  -  -        :4:              4:-      -      2.79:  2.78:      -             :   11102:-        -:      11102
:382:   60  7282: 17 :122 :   75:-   442 :0106.95: 269.91 :375.66 : 109  :2179279 :9826676 : 5761257: t17766212
JK-50.wal



THIR.D ANDPRA PRADESH IRRIGATION PROJECT
(SRBC Sub Proseit i
RESETTLE,ENT ArND REHABILITATIOJN                                                Aanxu'e-KVII
Dttail; nf PWiFs Lue t'n acJuuisition of patta lands
(B.YJQ  IV 7s. VIII
:               :                      :        IlNMBER OF   PAS                          cTutal Land :Tatal Cmamen-:
SI No:   Name of     : Name af the villaue:  S   E  x               C   A   S      T            :Acuired   :sation Paid.:
The         :
Miandal     :                       :WaIe  :iFmale: SC: ST: DC :Others:  Tutal    :  (ACS          s  Rs.
____ ~ ~   ~    -- -   - _-__--_-___ -___ _-----  - - -
1:         2       :                      : 4  :  5  :6:  7:             :9 :         10           11     :12
1 :Banaganapalli  :Nadavara:   3:    1: 3I                    :   -    1      -           4:       2.550
2:                :aia                   :                                                           2:  :  :    : :  :   
3:                :+:aiDalov'             :    L:       :     : -   : 2:    1:             L:      2.470:s
3:                :APDlaluram             :     :       :     :     :2s       Ls3:                 2.470        
4 :Gadivemula      Manchalakatta               2 :      :     *        2:        :         2       0.655      2873
5 :Midthur        :Alaaanur               :   12:       :   B             :   4           12:    12.060    125216
6 :Panyam         :Ala:                          :* 2                        2:            2:      3.050:
7:                -:hucanaaadu            :   16:    4:       :   .I: t       9:             :    25.245:
K:                -.1n:Kidedu                         2:               2                   2       124
:   :                 :      :      :     :      :    :      : ~~~~~~~~~~~~~la's  :  :              :40
9:                :Maddur                 * 15:    3:  7:           :6:    5:             18:      6.320:
52:   12:  1:         : 25     1:           64:      5.688:  128089
dala.waI



THIRD AtNDHR  PRADESh' IRRIGATIOk PROJEECT
(SREC Sub Przj.ect)
RESETTLEM'ENT AND REHABILITATIG4
Details of M     'P4  du  to aoujsitiarn of latta! .vt./fH?sqs etc.
(SLOCK IV &. 'V U I
%MEER OF PA As                  : Landa Acmurpd in AC.:        -        Camensation Paid (in Rs.)
4.:       t'^ze        ,          the      5 g        :         '. -A S T:
.an a1      :    Via - ' IItt ----%t --                           -------               c       T=al    Nos. sPatta  &2,4 t   :hIEMazs    Tor&
ajaple  :FIaie: SC     ST: SC :Gthers: Total                               :           :                                :
I                             ,      .4         5       6  ^  7: 9  '  9   :   10           1 t   2 1      3    :14          5      1: 6   :17   :
----_______________________    _ ---- - ----- ----                                -      -----, 
.       an      l:    0:   -:   - -:                                        :       1: I0.60:    -:60.0:    1               -:
~:Pawa~i       :!na            :    1:    1:         :~    :    :       :       2:0. :    -:  04:   2                                
2                     Pand 1aaLirain:    2:    2:        : ~               4         4       -                 :    I :       -:        :      -::
:   anyass       : .%.ni.1weU          I:                                         4 _0 _ a-  49  _      .i4$               _
4:                  :aiu            :      :    0:       :         :           :               :0.        0.74:                :        :                   :
: :5:  > : l3:i   7:  3 : 7  .78 1:0a 05:  1.53:   4  : ,   60,a6,                    6.22:
jk-46-,wQ1



THIR.D ANUtA PRAD9PIESH IRRIGATION PRO.ECT
RIS9I'.AM R194.T BRRANCH 14CANAL
RESETTLEMENT AND REH4ABILITATIQIN
ABSTRACT OF PAPs - SEX WISE 4 CASTE WISE                  Anexure-XX
N-MBER OF FPs                  :NUBER OF PPs  t
--------------------------------------------:-  INCOME WISE    s
: 5   E  X   :          CASTE 
:  ------  -- ,                                  ::-2
:Male  :Female: SC  : ST    BC, K thers,: Total  :BPL     tMAPL
I             2     3        4  %: -5  i 6:  7   :  8           9    : 10 : 
nAINCANL C, A N 
Patta lids           : 1247:  192   312:  21 :64:  450           1439:    947:    492 ;
ov*t lands/ houses  :  30:  60) : 28    17 122           75       442:   33:    112:
:      :      S     :      :    '      :         !        S         2
BLOCK IV & YI        :
Patta lands          .  52:   12:  18:  -:25:   21:                64:      42:       22:
Sovt lands f houses:    5:    3:   0i    0:  1            7:       8:       4:       4:
*  a       a     a     a                     i          
T 0 T Al L        :1686:  267: 559:  38 :796:  561:   1953:   1323:    6302
JKX--6-



THIRD AtF)H4A PRADESHI IRRIGATION PROJECT                                       AnnexUre-XXI
(SPOC Sub projet1
RESETTLEMENT AND0 Ki4ilt.I4TION
f"viect Effecrenu nnsons Ecosnoic Rehabilitation rooarame
ACTION PLAK
OAIN4 CANAL0 fR:tt  lands)                                              P4A10t ill Rs.
*:4i3. of PPPs    Fr?oductiv~         :0Oths Ecenoiic    :Maintenance.  Vocatimnal TraiMnie        Grand Total 
V ame of                      . Inicome wise   Asset Gr~ant   :4usistance        :4lloeaArt: 
SI1  t   The            :aeo  ~                                      C1)ullah  8)08.A:
:80)L  ,4PL   :).     Aeunt         Amounet        :          :n No  :Aoeunit   ,Loan      %Grnet    :Loan 
1:   2        :      3        :4:5           6         7                              to:       ItI11     12 :13   I             14:t      15:I
I 1:tiaku'             :Karivina            3-    I:   4:    21)004)    2404):    4004):    18000:          -          -           :   44400:        -
2 Banagananalli  :Beeravolu        :   6:t    I i7:i   35000           3)00      600:)       250: - U50t-:   66500                               -I
3:                 :athu1uroad         10:    1:11t         554)00     3600:    9000:       27000:i    1       3000W    6000:z  97600         6000
4:~~~~ ~C iCeruvuakali  :21:    6:i 27:   13,50)0   11400:   2300):                   850):       I       3000      6000:  257900:    6000
5:           :~~~~~Nandavaram    :31:   11:  42:   210)04)   14400:   29000           10800)0:    7:    21000    42000:32400:i  42000
6:                  Pandaloura:   :   9:    4:  13:    65000:    5400:   10)0               41)5001    2:       6000    I2000126900 i  12000
4    1                      :~     ~~~        ~ ~        ~ : IS  610  :20  IWO: 50                  -  1          1          
7:           :~~~~~Ramthirthan   10:       :3          90:       440        040         10:       -            :       -    110700:        -
8:                VOeratarnuraaf        5:    0      5:    2504)0    24)00       4040       1000:I   1I         3000:    6O0 )0   52400:    6000
10:                  Banauanaoalli : 14:    9:  23:   11504):    8404):   17000:            6)00):       4:    i200:   24000:i 215400:   2400
11:                :Ooalaourai          I :     I      :     10)4:      60        1000 :     4504):                  :       -      16100:
12  SaBdivenula      C hanna)kaoalli:   14:    7:i 21:   10500):   72W) :   16000 :         54)000:    4 : 12000 :24000 : I94200 :2400 
13:                 :Duiv'i            'L    4")i 6130    3400)0:   17401)   KM0)0          130500      16:    4800    q6000: 587900    96000
14:                :adiuarevula          I 1:  4 01:I        SW)0)      610:    101)0:        4500:      -         -:          :11100:            -
15:                :adiv:nul:           4:    3:t  7        3500       3000      600         22500:      I:     30         600    69500:    60004
16:                  Korranolur        104:   51:155:   77(0)0:   '204)0   1001)0           315000      42:   126000:252000:i13,5800 252004)
17:                Mbanchalikatta:   22:   12:34:   170000:   10801)   24000:               81040:       7:    2104)0    420)0:30680          42000)
Is:                  Thiru:sdu     :   7:    2:   9)    450)0:    18)0    60)0:   135)0:                 5:    15000    300)0    81340    300)
IR 2uoadi banlow eThuditrherl       :  45:   304:75:   375000:   25240:   560)O:    189000:    13               39000    78000684200    780
20 Koil:Ikantla   :0c:1sIuntia         1          t 1 2:     1004):    600:    104)0          4500:      I       3004      6000:19100:    6000:
21i Ooli,iaunidla   :B.Sinoavaram        7  7:  2:   9:    45004):   2400         O000       11000      1I       3000      6)00    76400:i   6000.
22 Fiidt6ur         :1au)aqur       i  38:   16:i 54:   270000:   1604)0:   4)4)00          12604)0      6:    18000:   36000:4758000    36000
23:                 :3akanur            0:      I 1:1         501)0      600CO                4500:  - :            -         -1000 



I i       2       :      3         4 :5    :6:    7    :             :   9:    10    :11:   12   :  13  :                 14:      15:
24                hRoIllmadQ    I  t00    4   14:   70000:   3000    120001    22500:    2            6I000:  12000  113500:   12000:
25$               tThalauudioi  :  S0:  35: 85:  425000:  30000:  61000:   225000:   12:   36003:  720 0  777000:  72000 
26  Nandyal       ftoolzsigaran      6:   5  11:   55000:   3000:   9P00:    22500,    5:   15000 S    30000, 104500    30000 t
: .
27  Ctk            Obulaoura        23    13   36   1I0000    12600    29000        94500 :    5     15000    30000   331100    30030
28c               :fRaavaraa    :  23:   8:31:   155000:   1400:  17000:    63000:    -:                -:        -:  243400:       -:
I              :             I                           i                                                                I                  
297               :Sinrgnmaalli:  16:   3:19:   95000:   2200:  16Th:    54000: -O                       -:       -:  1722C00 -i
t   X     :      :     :    :         :        :        ~    ~    ~ ~~:  :  :        :        :        :        :
30:         -        zOak       :  51:  23: 74:  370000:  26400:  55000:   196000:   17:   51000: 102000: 700400: 102000 
31:               : lethuialli   :  56:  24: B0:  400000:  20200:  66000:   211500:    7:   210S0:  42000: 7267600    4000:
32:               :Chanuoondla  :   2:   1: 3:    1000:   1830:   3000:    13500:    -:                 -:       -:   33300:       -:
X ~ ~     ~      ~~~~~~~~~~                   1 :        :  :       :         :                               I      
33:               :Sunkasula    :  16:  10: 26:  130000:   9000    22000:    67500:    3:    9000:  10M     2375C0:  18000:
34:               BSanomautnam      17:  10: 27:   135000:   7800:  24000:    58500:    1:             000:   6000: 223.00:   60o0:
35:                CIharlalaIli  :  52:  40  92:  460000:  33400:  73000:   243000    10                00:  60000.  83B400:  6000 t
36tPanyan        :Oarakallu    :  45:  28: 73:  365000:  25B00:  66000:   193500:    9:   27000    54000 c 677300:  54000:
37:            :Kondujukur   :   1:   0    1         5000      600     1000       4500: :   :-: -:   1110:                :      -:
38:               :iAInh        :   3:   2:    :   25000:   100:   3000:    13500:    -:                -           *  43300:       -:
39                      nadu         1:   0:            5000:    6                   4500:                :        :        : 
3C:t6iakaI.    :   1:    1:  2:    10000:  E120:   100:    15900:    -:                -:       -    21200:       -t
I              I             1      :     :1                        :       :         :       :         I                 
413              :I(onidadu     :   9:   4: 13         65020:   500:  12000:    40500:    2           6000:   1   0   1280:  12-
42_ __    -         addur       :     :         2      100:    600:   1000           4500:    1       300    6000    1910 :      6000: 
g   :            X      :     :    : ~ ~ ~ ~               ~ ~       ~ :  :  :  :  :        :        :        : 
43:               :Panyu        :      2:  8:  10:  4000:  22800:  64000:   11T00:   26:   78000: 156000:  458003: 156000:
I              :             :      :     :       :       :        :        :          :                      
44Q Palad         :Maddur       :  13:   6: 19:   950:   6600:  18000:    49500:    3:    93o:  1000: 178100:  1000:
45:               :Vesata       :23    14:  37:   105T          14400:  34         10:000:    9:   270:  5400: 36000   540:
I3              : Pay          :  52                                         *          *e t  o  000    20       40: 310: 2        8 : 160: 75C:tS0:
46I               sVanala           48t  25   73    265000    240:  51000:   18000    15    45 :  90000   665000,  90000:
47;Sa:jaaala       Dattaodura    :   13:   2: 34: 4    2002    1600:    000:    13500:    -:           -0:   -I       39300:        -I
:   .  :         :      :     :    :          :        :~~~I  1    :       :      :         :        :        ::
45:                P,erusmla    :   6:   8:14:   70000:   5400    14000:    40500:    2:   62000:  12000:13900:  12000:
947 :452 :1439: 71950000: 476400 :111I   0 13:    0573000 :  248:  244000: 14000 :13101400  14000
_  _  _   _  _   _   _  _   _                    -   __-_-__ --   -  - -     ---   -      -----   -   - --- -:
,k-63.wat



IS
9      Xi
SI



AtIDs      R k A PADEFSi IRRIi'GATFN PR.CJET
(SR.BC SU-PR3.1ECT)                                                              -X(I U
PR.i-J,T E~EF   D pER,SCNS E'QlIC P.N sZBILIUTiTION P           W2P4.E
ACTION PI'AN
Lck: IV Et VUIi7
(F.:ArTA LANDGS 1i'4unt i.i Ps.
-  --   _ -    _ _ _      _ _ -     -   _ _        --    _ -     -  _       -    _ _ _ _ -  --     -   _        -  _   - _ _   -    --  _ -     -    _ __-    -     -----  _ _  -    _ _ _ --_ _ _ _
:  :     PiAi S Er  fe   P.ducct-ie  iler 6g ' naio c  :ulantedianc:
:       ~        :                   Sinc,5r,e   :v  .-set Grmt             i                                  :ie,t3-   i2    :t a I iz A  :                       :
Nill sa,a,T'F.' ,t  :                                 I      4 :  20-00-C    2-0-----90-0 ::                 :  ,                   :      0 : 't4  AND             0 rU
li~~~~~~~~y Ii,  :         i :l,e     BP       AFL    ,ti;',t 4,+s,t  illah:    -i.A.   :
:                4.ne,li     :       *          .            t          ______                       _____              ___                              _      _
a:a0                  1:   4         : 5000:    1600:    440::                      -                      0:   i-                ::
KaIa :   :  3      :       :    I    ,         5000         600        200  :          5000                  0 t      Cs    'i O               0
1~~~~~~~~~ 4                           r   r   a   a  r   s    a    l 4 T n a e r m :   4  4  = 4 a 6 4=F 4a8 E3)-+' '7+''{ 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I2X  0)  iJ9O"                     C           7    2fx
:Edivev  a    :ancnaaat.a            :       :       :  : 2       :                :           :00       :0       -    :       0:        0             ::
:&r:v-i          :4inraiSat    :    1:             l      2     i      4ri3   4.zi     -{           4    S1    -   4             }         5,3    Le';4. 
: ~ jia*~anur :                         12 : :0000 :200                 7000 :i~1 6  : :                 1:0 :   : 24000 :           .I  J        : *14044
t.4.itiSlur ~ ~~~~~               ~       ~      ~~~ 4iazau  7:   5:   12    4,3t>  4-h  40j   it           4           4'Ja  4;;K           4  t7i3 '.i''X
Partwam          -Aiamur                   2       O:    2:    XM)03           600:      2000:          4503:  -               0         i0:    17100:           0:
:~.      7 :O :0:0:          :     6000: 060:                45000:       2:    6 :12 02:   17              :      1     :000;
:                Kihmni,             :    i:       7         *2 4tiiXS       4r,r       5t)33          4s<3J           4          S,N4 l'n,t    . 4 3    |4 43
4 ~    ~     tlSdf               :    l:       1:    2:  i430S 4            t 4       p             4T        -    :                  43: 1      N      4      :
:atu                     I : :    I:    2   1       ):       600:            :               :       :          :      0:    170:                 :
ftS laLFeu r f     s   t13 :          5 :     9 B  :       660h  :    660:   150M0 :  49500       4 :  1200  : 240. If 3100              24L00
C                :      Tet&ta       :   42       22:  64: '320 0:           1600:   50C$):           162000: 16: 10:300 0:0MM3                              605000
PLA-Tw iP484Q



Thlt ANDHRA PRADESH IRRIATION PROJECT
(SREC SUS-PROJECT)
VILLAEE-NilSE ACTION PLAN                                                                                Anure-XXlI
ELOCf(' IV & VI II
PATTAIGGNT./HOUEESE ETC.                                                                                   Amount in Rs.
:ou-se :                                         ans A -itance
:Na otf PAPs  :Praductive Asset:   Other Ecannhiic  .:cntructiaon: iavtenance   : i.attie   wnte-:-:
S'  :      the          Nans  of the  incane wise  :       5raqn      :  Assistance                V iacation3i Trainina   :   5rant     : Ai ilanace     .nafice al1oance:Econwic
4g.:    1tarn(ia    :    uIzace                                                                                                        ------  -~~-- ~ ~ - ~ ~ ~ ~ --~    IIAS --'st MCIs Ie   Loan:
:  :    :    :          ~~~~:Grans 
BPL: APL   NO: -uunt  :-Chuiian  . DCRA   :                   Ma ount   : Loan   : No   , Amount: NO        Amount: NO:  Amunt   :
:              :                :      :       :     :          :          :         :        :           :         :       :       a        :       :    :          a      Amunt:
It        2               :3 a2            i 5:6           7       :   6           9    :t1     :      l     l  12     :1 3: 14        15   :16   :17:             a    : :                20:
I   manar 31r 1 .aii Kaa              -:    1: I:            5000:      600:    -    :  -   :             0:        0:    1:10000:           1:  4500:  -:           0:     2100:          0:
:              :;.m' laolurmml  :   2       2      4      2000J       600       4000 :     2         6000     1200 N :    4 :0            1:  4500   -             0      75100,4    12 0I
2:pans;illm     :.Knidedu               I:           2      10000: L       ):    200:         1:       30:    64)0:L   2:000:                1: 45I 4):  1:       1200:    41300:    6000:
3:               :hadur            :    1:   -        1:    500 0:  600:    1000:   -   :                0:        0:    -: t3:             1: 450:  -0:    1                             0:
:              :     Total      :   4c   4:   8:    40000:    2400:    7000:               3:        SW3:   180:    7: 70000:             4: 100:1:            1200:   14760:   16000A:
jk-61 .wLl



THIRD, PNIhRA PRADESH IRRISATION PROJECT                                                  Ann uri-XXV
(SR.BC SUBPROJECT)
AESTRACT PROJECT AFFECTED PERSNS ECONOMIC REHABILITATION PRORAWiE
F I N A N C I A L i  U T L A Y                                                     Rs. IN Lk'.PS.
:PrZFctiVe       Other Econotic:  Vocatioxnal Trinine   : .4Quse cistructioan: Maintenance   : Cattle M,ainte-:    Grand Total
A:iet Grant  :      s3sistance                                       Grant          Allowance     :nance allowance,   Aksi5tance
NO  : Aszsnt :ChulLah  i DWCRA   : No   : Aaunti: Loan: NO             : Aisaont    NO    : Airaunt: NO   Amount  :Gpant       :  L.oan
:     :        : ^ zAeunt   Amount:         :        :         :
:         : 4                           : 6  :715 10  L  12  3:          :    1.5    :   6
MAIN CANAL                                                                          .                                     .                . a
------- --                                                                                                                : 
af Patta lands       :1439 : 71.'5    4.76         I1.13 :  248       7.44    14.        -             0     794 :35.730   -        -         131.010     14.88
t) Go'4  / fHouses      $ : 22S10         1.5')     3.46       60     2.40:   4.80         192     19.20     250  11.250  2'2        0.26      60.1704     4.60
T O T A L        :1881    94.05      6.26      14.59     328      9.4    19.68        192     1.20    1044   46.98  22          0.26      191.18 ,   19.68
BSLOC IV' & VIII     :                         : l
a! Patti lan.ds         6:    3.20       0.22:    0.50:    10:   03.30    0.60           -             0:    36:  1.62:-                       -5.840:    0. 60
b) Gvt f Houses          8:   0.40        0.02      0.07:       3    0         0.18          7      0.         4    0.18:             0.02:     1.480:    0.18:
T 3 T A L           72 :   3,60:    0.24:    0.57          I 3:   0.39:   0.78:         7       0.70:,   40    1.80   1         0.02       7.320      da7B:
6 R A N O T r T A L  :1953:  S7.65:    6.50 :   13.16:   341:  10.23t 20.46:               19 t   19.90:  1084:48.78: 23:           0.28:  198.500:   20.46:
JK-69



Annexure- -XVI
Organisational Chart for ERP
Pri Secretary (Irrgn & CAD)
District Colletr             .Sub Collector Nandval
District Colletor                             R &; R Officer
rj)           Spi Collector (LA)     Jt. Collector           PD DRDA                DDO ZPP             DM Housing
SE Pro)  S   L              DR               Ast rojO0
EE Divn              Dy. Tahsidar        .  MRO                   MDO/MRO                  VDO                  DyEE
EE             |Rev Inspector        Rev. Inspector        VDO/VDO Women
VAO
18



THIRD ANDHRA PRADESH IRRISATION PROJECT             Anneu:re-XXVII
RESETTLEMENT Pi. REHABILITATIGIN
PfRlJECT AFFECTED PERSONS ECMNOMIC REHABILETATIOtN PROGRAMME (PAPERP)
SRC& SRSF
SENERAL A.EST ACT 3F BUDGET                 Rs.La;:hs
:           SREC                        : SRS:
Discriution       tfasin Canal  Blcc: IV Indicative               :SRAND TOTAL
:   &    for    :Indicative
:              ,VIII   Rqiiainino              s
:                     b lck  s
_____________________-  -  -_  -----  -  -- - - - -              -- - - -
A.   Land Compensation             2030.40   22.M30   1496.500    37068. 600      879.930:
B.  Resettlement                    33.120                -           -       :      3.120:
C.  RehabiiLtation            :    201.180    7.670      72.BSO:    139.0B4:    421.024
Loan Coafwnen.t               (19.686)   (0.78)    (7.200}) s      3. 20)    (40.860:
D.  Prdiect Manaement               27. 70?0   0.50(     29.000       44.4r0       101.200
E.  Prtoict Administration          29.000     -          9.610       20.116        58.726
491.001) 231.0)00   1600.;00    7272.000     9594.000
Add loan Comiio.          19.620    0.7803      7.200       13.200        40.e60
-_-_-_-_-_ --------_ -------_-_-_--------    - - ----------- ---------!
TOTAL             .510.680  Z31.780   1607.2000      7285.20)0:   9634.860
6'ib-Project   Total(MA  TO (El:                       2322.000:   7272.00     95994.000
Add Soillover of AFII                                    96.6:0.       17.500      116.300 
Total                                   2420. 6,10    7289.50)0    9710.300
oasn          :                          27.660        13.200 :     40.866
RAWD TOTAL                                 2448.460      7302.700     975t.160
(Includinor loan)                                      :
jk-70



THIRDl A.N'DWRA PFAO.wiS4s IRRIG.a'SATI, FROJUEC'T                  Amix|urie-XXV11
fQE3ETTLEMENT rJ HF-BIRLITATE0NI
PROJ1SC' AFFECTED PERTONIS E-tl.lC RE44.ILITATIT4 P3ROAMtFE(PAPERP
DETAILED PUDGET FCR MAIN CNAL 4ND PLOCKY IV t. VIII
I tern               '                                 i1. tlain Canal    No,   Mluck IV & VIII
A    Land comsensatiai a'. R,. 1.25
lakh aer ha clus, 30% Slatiljm
far CQlh0ueniiatiza3 Of 137.00 ha
(Eiloc: I to KV! ex,e t IV t.
Vill descrtai charoies  as L.S.                                 200.000             222.630
Ane;ure  'N                                                   .33.120
C    RehabiLitati.an
,I)  ppoduct.i-vesNnn
oran'. 1 Rs.5.000 ovr PFP
i) Pattia land                                       1439       71.55)       64    3.200
ii) Pattai/ovt.land  . hnause                           442      22.100          8    0.400
bi  Other Ec!-.nf.is lsi5tance
O  DW*BA  (Patta)                                   1113      lLIDm          50    0.500
iil US40P. Patta/(6ovt.)/Hu-e-                         .346     .3,.46          7    0.070i
iii) Soe: chuilla (Patta)                               794       4.760         36    0.220
i'v) 'Sokelss  1h0alleas                               250 1SS0.50              4    0.020
t  Vacatioiait Traii,iin
Grants corn}oint
Patta lal.ld                                            240       7,440         10    0.300
Patta!Oeafnient la,'dsf!i4o3uses                         Ro       2. 400         3    O0M09
Le-an cliaa:.ienit
Patta lands                                            ,2'4      14.Bi)         103  i0. 60
Patta/Go2vern.4nt !ands(i.ulsses                         90       4.900          3    0.180
ji)  )Jegi.,nl  EQ.4atructi4Jn anant
~~-~~-~-~~ ~               ------- r--__ __ __ _ __ _ _
O i-5,3.3I ari ed                                       192      19,20y)         7    0.700
el  .aLntenance all' aant l
,tr PAF-F-Pta ttl                                       794      35,73         36     1 . 62.0
Patt&a.v;t.?/'44aut   s                                 250      11.25(          4    0.180
fB  Cattle Maiitna rc-  anlls..4ja',rc
Diaaiacaa 2s-; L l2                                               0.260          2    0.020
.l1  Tnainur,                                                         1(4.0(430            0.550
Sh-tltal s-f Ct                                2,4 1,104      244    7.070



- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -. 
It - ii                                          N.   daicN  Canal    No.   Block IV & VIII
D    Proiect lanaceimeqt
a)  S6xio Economic studies and                                  15. 000
action nlan
b)  C'nsultancv & Technical                                      03,7C,)             .500
ServiCe,5
c)  tanniturina & evalhiation                                    1). OW
dS  TraiLiini  lf R & R Staff                                    2,iAl
5u0-t'utal of D-                             2.70i)              0.500
E    Project Aministration
a)  Ecuionent furniture s.ularie-.                              10.000
stationeVry eki.
b)  Continfenci's                                               10,00,
c)  Enl;e oeinseu thndevelw,ent                                  $ 000
prorafnme and leadershiD
development cadre
9jb-totai onf t;                              9.000
Tstal;                                4P1.0               2.31.000
%Aln coT}norit                              I9. SPi             0.780
,rF1N  TTAL IN4CLUDINN6 LGN                                5t0.690            2-31.760
JK-71



,HIPD     P  PDE6H IA GPT1A  PROJECT
rgtTEs_tt. AN;ESH   [tAi3
R.EEETTE- E4    REfAJ~IT[ThH)N
PROJE6T AFFECTED PERS.0  ECONOcu1C REHABtILTTTION PROGRA-tME (PAPERP)
iDNDICNTVE. BLUHET
FOR
9'P.K  L to XVX1 EXCEPT IV & VIII          Annexuri-XXIX
?~~~~~
SR'SP                         Rs. in LOkhs.
El.                                           RB',"             SUSP
N.z.    Descriotion                     --------            --------
N4o.   AmooAt   tAa .     Awtunt
A      Land Cotiensatizn 8 1.25 Iakh
uGr ha Plis; 30%  'i-tiu'l
(in haW                           916    14EG.50   4350    70?68.8)
B        5e,z    nt                         -         -         -         -
c      Rer3ailitation                      670        -       1220
j)    Prod,u,gtive agssa  aran't 8 53000    67i    33.SO)    122.0    61.0
s~qr PAP
ii)    E>:Gnomic Aassitance for            370      2.22       680l    4. CM
olk;e l4s    a  @ Rs .600 or
iii)  ReI'lvlun fund fwr sinien            5301)    5.34)      960      9.6(
thrift orouns 8 Rs.10I ea-ch
iY)    Trainin'a anid  eif eimulomEnt 4   12l       3.64       22       6.60
v)     Triinino and 5e1f mluvwt            1 20   (7.20)       22D    (13.230i
loan cnm. 8 Rs. 6000-
,ii}    Mainteniance  1a~v1an. e e RS.    .370      16,65      6 90      0.600
4t 53 f)
4ii)   Cattle Maintsicanct a1bwance 8 10            0. 120     17      40.204
Ra. 1200/-
vili)  Hxiipo constpniQf w} ant            65        6.5       1203     1 2.0o0
42 Fs.lc0000- 'disolaced
ix'    Trainin'                                     5.00                15.00
72j.86            139.(84



-- -- -- - - - - - - - -- - - -- -- - -- - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    
5i.                                            9RBC               SRSP
,,".    E, sl SC r i O t iol--                     -
'o.   Awun t   to.        Amount
D      PpeJl;t t anaient
a)   s.cio Ecanomic Studies and                     15.00               30.00
Action Plan
3t Cn;ltan4Y  and Tichacn al                         1.00                 1.00
cl    Ol]niturina 21Evaluation                 6.00                  9.13G
!4     %Ti' ain0to of R & R staff'                   5.0(0)               4.W
`9  00              44.00      0.00
E      Pi'obt,:t Ada.inist,. t ion
Eiunlment. furniturs. Salarv.                      3.03                 7.1)1
b)    Continmencss                                  3.10)                 6.50
ci    Entsr.rnups io dsvolmioent                     3.610               6.616
Driora1mme and Leader shM
deloo~itcaore
9.61                20.116
Total                         I 00. 04)            7272.001
To0tal Loin a r covnetn                   7.2N                13.21
Grand total inclucino land                   167.2              7285.200
ac,-uisition
i;73



THIRD ANOVRA FRADESH IRR!2GTIgN PROJECT              hNNEXURE-XXX
R:EETTLEMENIT PUD REA4BIL !T'lTON
YEARLY FI NCA1'L CUT LAY  fOR
PROJECT A  FCTE   PPERE. O1  EC_n11IC PjEHPLITAT1ONJ PROGRMThfE (-APERP)
SR20 M4IN CAN1AL AND BLOCK IV ?,. VIII                R-s. MiIlionsI
iS,Vitv            TOt3al   t9N}-96    96-97    97-98       9-99 1599-201')
1 P.inekni  of Dec,rl;tal    ).O)     4,t,00    2.00      B.0-(
aisoun ts
L Land 7.A;ionsation       22 26   2:2.26           -        -         -6
iuaourt Prorumm,e         9.76          -     4.t)i)    5.76
4 6SIT4.less chulla        (,65          -     0.6           -
Prua.te~
5 RmoIytnQ  fu5nL  for      1.52          -     1.52          -
thrift gsruns
6 Vacational trainino
Grant      t.02         -      0.20      0.22
Loan   '2.05)
7 Festtiemei.t & iHou;s
orant                     7.8       4.00)     3.029
B Maintsnanze trant         4.88      2,75      2.13 
cattlil al1leanfil
9 Projvt Tianaolnlnt        2.22      1.r5      0 .2 I0   0.) 20    0.92
10 pro a  t                  2.90      0.52      0.52       0.58     0.58      0.58
Admifnistritiaon
-         ----- -__ _ _ -- - - -- - - __   -- - - - -_ _   -------- 
72.89    35' 9    2.9b    1.4.76         1.50      0.58
IK-72



SRISAILAM RIGHT BRANCH CANAL                           ANNEXURE- X)'XXI
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF LAND ACQUISITION FOR BLOCK    IV
Si.                      Year    1     1994                1    1995                        1996
i N.   DESCRIPTION                                                                        - 1  3   5 ---   9 -
iNo.                       Montch   5   7  T 9 t 1   l1  31  5   7   9 19              i        x 7-   9    
___            ___           ___                      H...          7 1-                            __  ,
I.   CONSTRUCTION                1  [                   __
II.   LAND ACQUISITION
I.Submission of             K
LP Schedule
2.Completion of             l      _l ___    - 1_-____
Survey                    l
3.DN/DD                     I
Publication                          .
4.Award           |



SRISAILAM RIGHT BRANCH CANAL                            ANNEXURE-  '1I
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF LAND ACQUISITION FOR BLOCK                  VIII
Year    ,       1994          |              1995                           '1996
'Si.   DESCRIPTION           .                                !    -                           . .                  . _l
i Month ~5  -7    9   11   ,1    3    5   7   19    11    11    3   15   7   19 11
I.   CONSTRUCTION                        ____                                  _       -      _
II.    LAND ACQUISITION !
1.Submission of                                                I                      I
LP Schedule                        ,
*   .  |            I    i     I     ,     ,    '   !     j    |      i     '        ,    |           i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
2.Completion of  |
Survey                                         .l                                      ,              I 
1  3.DN/DD
Publication
4.Award 



SRISAILAM RIGHT BRACH CANAL                         ANNEXURE-XXXII
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF PAPERP
Training, Skill development and Self Employment
SI    Name of Activity   Year          1995-96       j       1996-97              1997-98             1998-99
No.                            .....fAciiy   -_-  
Qtr.    1    2    3    4    1    2    3 44    1    2              4    1    2    3
j .    Identification of
youth for training
and selection of
activity.
2,    Identification of
Centres.                             IZ,I.
3.    Imparting Training,      i           ,____
4.  1 Conducting EDP
5.    Completion. of .
formalities for
establishing Unit/                                               I
activity Tying up 
with Bank loan.
6.    Establishing Unit                    |Z '                            
7. <,Monitoring and
Midterm correction
8.   Evaluation
9.    Final correction
Measures.
Ist Quarter - April - June
2nd Quarter - July  - September
3rd Quarter - Oct.    December
4~t4 Quarter - Jan.  - March



SRISAILAM RIGHT BRANCH CANAL
ANNEXURE- XXXIV
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF PAPERP
Productive asset support Programme
Si.!                   . No.   Year      1995-96          1996-97         1997-98         1998-99        1999-20
No. oName of Activity    f         _   ,                                           4 .             4 
.  PAPs  Qtr.   1 | 2   3  l.4   1  12  !3   4   1   2  ,3   4   1   2 ! 3   4   11  21  3
1. ' Preparation of
District Credit
plan for PAPs
2.  Verification of
PAP- and collection                I
of applications
3.  Processing of
application and
issuing sanctions                                                        |
,4.   Release of
grants and loans
5.   Grounding  of           I_______________
Scheme                  1                                             
,6. 'Concurrent                       .
monitoring and
corrective measures.
7.   Evaluation
8.  Final correction         ,
measures and                                                                                       -A
additional support
Ist Quarter - April - June
2nd Quarter - July  - September
3rd Quarter - Oct.  - December
4th Quarter - Jan.  - March



SRISAILAM RIGHT BRANCH CANAL
IMPEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF PAPERP                          ANNEXURE- XXXV
Group Economic Activity for Women
ISi.                        Year       '1995-96              -1996-97             1997-98      - 1998-99
'No.  Name of Activity       t                                               1          314
Qtr.       2    3    4      1   2    3    4    1      2              1     2    3     4
1. 1 Identification of }                                    2    3
of Groups
2.    Group Formation
through PRA
3.    Commencement of                                    ___________
thrift Activity                           L
4  1 Identification of                                   _     ,_'
Economic activity
5.    Financial Support       _i;-_                                      1
6.    Monitoring &                                             r     _     _  ,__
Corrective Steps                             I |_.                             .i
.7. j  Evaluation                                  |
8.    Final Corrective
measures and                                       ,
additional support
Ist Quarter - April - June
2nd Quarter - July - September
3rd Quarter - Oct. - December
4th Quarter - Jan.    March



SRISAILAMWRIGHT BRANCH CANAL
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF PAPERP                           ANNEXURE- XXXVF
HOUSE CONSTRUCTION & RESETTLEMENT
sl.                       Year                 1995                                          1996
No.  Name of Activity                            Ii 
Name of Activity   Month  4   5   6   7   8   9  10  11  121           2   3   4 |5   6   7   8   9  10  l1
1.    Selection of site                                                    I                         i       :
in consultation
with PAPs                    .        .
j 2.    Acquisition of site
. 3.    Layout plan and                          _ iI
plot development                           .                                 J
4.    Internal road                 ii_; .' i
construction                                                         _ I''
5.    Drinking Water
facility
6.    Electrification                                         Z                                 i
7.    Construction of    -    '                                                 _   -.,
School Buildings&j       '            i'       -          +i                 '         i i' s
Community Halls                j                                        I |      r-'
8~.    Construction of
houses                                                 I__1__-
9.   Shifting to  -                                                          I                          ,
New site                 I
110.    Supply of Smokeless
Chullahs                                                                                               .
I!l.    Plantation of                                                ---I---- __ i__ _n_____'                        _
Avenue Trees       l                         i                                                                -|
_  _  __        __        _         _  _  _               _  I_     lI                          i           I _ _ _



SRISAILAM RIGHT BRANCH CANAL
ANNEXURE-X /i2
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF PAPERP
Payment of Cattle allowance and maintenance allowance
Sl | Narme of             Year 1;1995                                                    19
Monthl5   6   7   8   9  10  11  12   1   2   3   4   5   6  17   8                1     12
11.    Collection of
applications and              I
confirming the
PAP~Fs.
,2.    Opening of Bank
Accounts                 ,
3.    Depositing the                              i .
Grant                                                                              i
4.    Utilisatiion                           'I,_
by PAPs                                                                __



Fig. 1.
i    ,>@(~~~~
INDIA
\NDA <           _-_ _ANDHRA PRADESH
"          ,        ANDRA PROJECT SITE
&MAWHOUCNAGAR                   </       j       3
DOISTRICT    KS   R t/     
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<C S fiSR~~~~ISAILAM/
+to ZI-Srsailam back. water,/. 
.KURNOOL                       t 
KURNAOOL      _              i
.  DISTRICT       |>       ,$
e   N      - ~/;PRAKASAM        THIRD A.P IRRiGATION PROJECT
.   .  M      F         * S ~~~~~OISTRiCT
r z p J z"s ~~~S R B C COMMAND AREA
t-2  P  .>s,>    .                  ~~~~~LOCATION MAP
CUDDAPAH DISTRIC'T
._N.  
,                        \       .  _



r ,,,              Ti_.Ht A*              GU t _E. NO.
~-SRtSAILAM DAM
AL^F U R                   r~~~~~~O TM IFItI)ODY AOU
D  / (  - (AI4OIKOIK"^~- -                                         0 ftKCHt  NA
H5-EADO /REGULATORf   j 1           N O  E X
5  URMOOL~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bRA
I    5         \    .  SRO C ALIGNMENT
COIIbX ^k U A|            ~ SA HTA Ui" VI I u                SRBC  AYACUT
PANYA1-9?7%0         PL L                                 RIVERS,RESERVOIRS
10t_9/ -  .- J'KUf      OL    ISTRICT               '
X  ;               <                        ;A,       fIn wsrl, otr' o
*CUDDAF'AH
Is    /SUI~t~OOLDS TRICT
AI    '<       <.'                                                            
45
TVNIRD  A.P  IRRIGA'TION  PROJECT
I     Dl Il t| I) A
<-t  A) bAY       tr                  S R B C  COMMAND AREA
r. "2<   n     A L           .II[IDEX   MAP
ISAI*TAIJ (AIM
|t tIJC   A4AL



INDIA
~~~~~~-  'A-
INDi                 '   >  . - 
--i  - -____    - -    -~ANDHRA PRADESH
11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RJC SITE ,
,AD$LABAD DISTRI'CT     |               /
r*      > KK  MNAGAR   4 - _ 
NIZAM,ABAD ,-O\lT                                    ,
DISTRICT,    
,__w   ,   , -@    w WARANGAL                                                         )
'~'~'  /    '\  ) DISTRICT,                     SRI RAIM   &&CAR PRO'; -CT
MIEDAK DtSTRICT         --    X 
. s 4 o LA ~~~LOCATI ON MAP
NALGONOA    { 
, ,-  >  DISTRICT         (
-'S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-



I< |aLOWRI RMANSAGAR DAM94
r P k,                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~15
/d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
K^.840 ~~~~~-<\ J
0 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ROE  IANI  KAATY    CANA  COMN
X, ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N5X  D$C E'  X     



-'  ]  t   2 1<  ~~- %  '  ,- ' :           'i  0 
KURNOOL          ,;
-  AS .'                               BANAKACI1FR'L
*Z  0  =' REGULATOR
y45        .      .
.'__:LGqRAKALLU BYPASS
CANAL
OWK TUNNEL---
4.r14SERVOIR
CANAL IN                  SRTS1A-UJT_RL _tA
FOREST,AREA          LOCATION MAP OF FOREST LANDS



S.rI.B.C.   REt I LITAlT ION   L )                    Lv1EtJ T
Co r-   tVA    \LA    VILLAqE
4 ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        14
Jf , C,   A 7 V                      ;f  f,  ;h  X
; 5                 1A-                               1
19~~~~~~~~~1
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I  5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
:5An  3)','21l  ! |    "f31/!                       8              5~~~~rl 
,-  S R /C                      1,1Ch 3 T
I  -  - --                                 S~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - ------
\F AFECTLg   AREA
t w>  CX1 PRiOVOSEP COLONY hfb  OUSTES
/625          6~~~~Eos-TN5    P\4<\
II   P         O      \    0 -l RCAo
.14 



2~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~2
I-i ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ c
1<-~~~~2 .-.2
#Z4A
G\\T. LAN 1EZ
PJYTTA L A A) Z)
tr7OWVMMANr or ~Z.~ 1).~ 3PAAfZTM
()'T '512 F~~~~                ~AYOu  O
r~sL A  CFN-r OSEFi
DTISPLAC LI> FAMILI ES OF
\tANALA '4ILLAG|



