Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2952-IN
LOAN NUMBER 4166-IN
Project Agreement
(Third Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
Dated June 3, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2952-IN
LOAN NUMBER 4166-IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 1997, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank)  and 
the STATE OF  ANDHRA PRADESH (Andhra Pradesh).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
India (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred eight 
million one hundred thousand Drawing Rights (SDR 108,100,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
Andhra Pradesh agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set 
forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available  to the Borrower an amount equal to one 
hundred seventy five million dollars ($175,000,000), on the  terms and conditions set 
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Andhra Pradesh agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
       (C)
the Project will be carried out by the State of Andhra Pradesh with the 
Page  2
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to Andhra Pradesh the proceeds of the Credit as provided in the Development 
Credit Agreement and the proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Loan Agreement.
WHEREAS  Andhra Pradesh, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, 
respectively) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Andhra Pradesh declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out the Project through ICADD with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and irrigation practices, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association, the Bank and Andhra Pradesh shall otherwise agree, 
Andhra Pradesh shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in  Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions Applicable to 
the Development Credit Agreement, and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 
9.09 of the General Conditions Applicable to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements for 
Single Currency Loans  (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of the Project Agreement and the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions Applicable to 
the Development Credit Agreement, and Section 9.08 of the General Conditions 
Applicable to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans, and without 
limitations thereto, Andhra Pradesh shall prepare and furnish to the Association and 
the Bank, not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Association and the Bank and Andhra 
Pradesh, a plan satisfactory to the Association and the Bank for the future operation 
of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a)  Andhra Pradesh shall, at the request of the Association and 
the Bank, exchange views with the Association and the Bank with regard to the progress 
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
(b)
 Andhra Pradesh shall promptly inform the Association and the Bank of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and the Loan, or the performance by 
Andhra Pradesh  of its obligations under this Agreement.
Page  3
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a)  Andhra Pradesh shall maintain records and accounts adequate 
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of Andhra 
Pradesh responsible for carrying out the Project.
(b)
Andhra Pradesh shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
the escrow account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Association and the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank as soon as available, but 
in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association 
and the Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank such other information 
concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as 
the audit thereof, as 
the Association and the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancelation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and the 
Bank and Andhra Pradesh hereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with their terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates in 
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this 
Section, the Association and the Bank shall promptly notify Andhra Pradesh of this 
event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancelation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
Page  4
For the Association:
      International Development Association
      1818 H Street, N.W.
      Washington, D.C. 20433
      United States of America
      Cable address:
         Telex:
           INDEVAS
                248423 (RCA),
           Washington, D.C
                 82987 (FTCC),
                 64145 (WUI) or
                197688 (TRT)
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
           Reconstruction and Development
       1818 H Street N.W.
       Washington, D.C.  20433
       United States of America
       Cable Address:                             Telex:
     INTBAFRAD
          197688 (TRT),
     Washington, D.C.                      248423 (RCA),
                                                         64145 (WUI) or
           82987 (FTCC)
For  Andhra Pradesh:
          Chief Secretary
          Government of Andhra Pradesh
          Hyderabad,  India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Andhra Pradesh 
may be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as 
Andhra Pradesh shall designate in writing, and Andhra Pradesh shall furnish to the 
Association and the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Section  5.04.  As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to 
Andhra Pradesh, and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have 
terminated prior to the termination of the Loan Agreement:
(a)
the obligation of  Andhra Pradesh to consult with, and furnish 
information, documents, plans, reports, records and statements to the Bank shall be 
satisfied to the extent performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the 
Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to  Andhra Pradesh shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are satisfied by 
the Association; and 
(c)
all actions taken (including giving of approvals or granting of waivers) 
by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be 
taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, and in 
the name and on behalf of the Association and the Bank.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Page  5
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s/  Robert S. Drysdale 
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF  ANDHRA PRADESH 
By  /s/  Sudhakar Rao
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: 
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995, and  revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(i)
Except as provided under paragraphs 2 and 3 below, works may be 
procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 
of the Guidelines.
(ii)
Except as provided under paragraph 2 below, equipment and 
Page  6
materials estimated 
to cost $250,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, and $3,310,000 equivalent or 
less in the aggregate may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Equipment and materials estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, and $1,020,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, and vehicles estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $800,000, in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works:
Works estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or less per contract, and $25,380,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate may be procured either (i) under lump sum, fixed 
priced contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association and the Bank, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor 
who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully, or (ii) through direct 
contracting with WUAs in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines, and with the Association and the Bank prior agreement, or (iii) with prior 
approval of the Association and the Bank through force account in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association and the Bank.
4.
Direct Contracting/Force Account
Afforestation works under Part E (i), (ii), (iii) and (v) of the Project which 
meet the requirements of paragraphs 3.7 or 3.8 of the Guidelines, may be carried out, 
with the prior approval of the Association and the Bank, through direct contracting or 
force account in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association and the 
Bank.
5.
Direct Contracting
Equipment and materials under Part D of the Project, estimated to cost 
$4,030,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate may be procured through direct 
contracting in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
6.
Vehicles Hire
Contracts for hiring of vehicles estimated to cost $2,100,000 equivalent or less 
in the aggregate, shall be awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
qualified domestic suppliers in response to a written invitation. The award shall be 
made to the supplier who offers the lowest price quotation for the required vehicles, 
and who has the resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association and the Bank for their review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods 
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
Page  7
With respect to (i) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more; and (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality-and-Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 and 3.18 thereof applicable to quality 
and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:  
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Single Source Selection
NGO’s and other agencies’ services which are estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the prior agreement of the Association and 
the Bank, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association and the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  8
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
Andhra Pradesh shall ensure that all micro irrigation network designs for each 
water course command in SRBC under Part A (iv) of the Project shall be completed at 
least 15 months prior to completion of the irrigation works contract, and that these 
designs shall be reviewed and accepted by the beneficiary farmers prior to initiation 
of the works.
2.
Andhra Pradesh shall ensure that prior to the award of any contract for 
rehabilitation of the irrigation networks in SRSP under Part B (ii) of the Project, 
ICADD shall consult with the beneficiary farmers on the modifications of the tertiary 
network designs with respect to relocation of irrigation outlets to farm water courses 
or farm block watercourses, and shall take into account the views of the farmers on 
such modifications.
3.
Andhra Pradesh shall, by October 1, and April 1 of every year, starting October 
1, 1997, furnish to the Association and the Bank for their review and comments (i) 
plans for the extent of the land to be acquired for the roads to be constructed during 
the following construction season under Parts A (v) and B (vii) of the Project, and 
(ii) the detailed designs, cost estimates and bid documents for such roads.
4.
Andhra Pradesh shall (i) establish a Project escrow account for depositing 50% 
of the payments received by Andhra Pradesh from the Association and the Bank for 
expenditures incurred prior to the date of the Development Credit and Loan Agreements, 
and (ii) ensure that such amounts are used as counterpart funds for financing Project 
activities prior to the Closing Date of the Project.
5.
Andhra Pradesh shall establish, within PPMU, not later than October 1, 1997, a 
Program Budget and Accounts Unit headed by an accountant, and staffed by personnel 
with experience satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
6.
Andhra Pradesh shall, not later than October 1, 1997, (i) take the necessary 
measures to reconstitute the Board for SRSP Command Area Development Authority (CADA), 
and (ii) complete the restructuring appointments for CADA, agreed with the Association 
and the Bank, including appointment of assistant agricultural officers with 
agricultural engineering training.
7.
Andhra Pradesh shall (i) not later than October 1, 1997, establish a Water 
Charges Review Committee (WCRC) with staffing and responsibilities agreed with the 
Association and the Bank, (ii) engage consultants to prepare a report on water charges 
assessment, collection and revenue sharing for consideration by WCRC, and for 
submission to the Association and the Bank for information not later than December 31, 
1998.
8.
Andhra Pradesh shall for SRSP (i) arrange for separate village irrigation 
revenue records to be kept by the Revenue Department for canal irrigated areas, based 
Page  9
on distribution network maps supplied by ICADD, (ii) require ICADD to keep records of 
the volume and duration of water supply made available to each tertiary area and the 
WUA under the Project, (iii) require that ICADD canal flow records and Revenue Village 
canal  scheme irrigation records be systematically analyzed and reconciled each year 
for monitoring of WUA’s efficacy in field water distribution, bulk water supply 
service, and water charge assessment and collection efficiency, and (iv) cause ICADD 
to furnish to the WCRC, the Association and the Bank, not later than December 31 of 
each year, starting 1998, the results of the analysis under (iii) above for 
information.
9.
Andhra Pradesh shall post not later than October 1, 1997 (i) the additional 
staff to SRBC and SRSP construction circles and quality control divisions, (ii) the 
staff required for implementation of the resettlement and rehabilitation under Part D 
of the Project, in the numbers and expertise agreed with the Association and the Bank, 
(iii) agricultural graduate village extension officers, and agricultural officers, in 
sufficient numbers for ICADD, and (iv) a director for WALAMTARI field training 
programs.
10.
Andhra Pradesh shall (i) carry out the resettlement and rehabilitation program 
under Part D of the Project in accordance with a plan agreed with the Association and 
the Bank, (ii) engage, not later than March 1, 1998, a suitably qualified NGO to 
monitor implementation of the resettlement and rehabilitation under the Project, and 
(iii) furnish to the Association and the Bank the annual monitoring reports of such 
NGO.
11. 
Andhra Pradesh shall select the NGOs participating in the implementation of the 
Project in accordance with criteria agreed with the Association and the Bank.
12.
Andhra Pradesh shall implement a system satisfactory to the Association and the 
Bank for channeling the funds required for the Project to the Project entities.
13.
Andhra Pradesh shall complete, not later than December 31, 1998, and furnish to 
the Association and the Bank for their review, a baseline survey for establishing the 
database for the Project irrigation development performance.
14.
Andhra Pradesh shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association and the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and the 
Bank, and furnish to the Association and the Bank, not later than October 31, 1999, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association and the Bank, by April 30, 2000, or such 
later date as the Association and the Bank shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association 
and the Bank views on the matter.
15.
Andhra Pradesh shall (i) prepare and furnish to the Association and the Bank, 
for their review and comments, not later than January 15 of each year, starting 1998, 
a draft Annual Review, Action Plan and Budget Report for the Project for the 
forthcoming fiscal year, and (ii) not later than April 15 of each year, starting 1998, 
after taking account of the comments of the Association and the Bank, implement the 
agreed Action Plan for such annual review, in accordance with the agreed budget.
Page  10
