Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13569-MAU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(EDUCATION V)
MARCH 10, 1995
Population and Human Resources
Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = OUGIYA / US$1 = 122 UM
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
I m. = 1.09 yd.
1 sq.m. = 10.76 sq. ft.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMEXTIPE              Agence Mauritanienne d 'Execution des Travaux d 'lnteret Public et de l 'Emploi
APE                   Association Parents Eleves
ASSEP                 Association des Ecoles Privees
CF                    Cooperation Francaise
CTR                   Coordinateur Technique Regional
DEF                   Direction de V'Enseignement Fondamental
DES                   Direction de I'Enseignement Secondaire
DP                    Direction du Personnel
DPC                   Direction de la Planification et de la Cooperation
DPE                   Direction des Projets Education et Formation
DREF                  Direction Regionale de l 'Enseignement Fondamental
DRH                   Direction des Ressources Humaines
ENI                   Ecole Normale d 'Instituteurs
ENS                   Ecole Normale Superieure
FAF                   Fonds d'Appui aux Filles
GER                   Gross Enrollment Ratio
IA                   Instituteur adjoint
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
ICR                   Implementation Completion Report
IDA                   International Development Association
IEC                   Information, Education, and Communication
IPN                   Institut Pedagogique National
MEN                   Ministere de l 'Education Nationale
PARSEM                Programme d 'Appui a la Renovation du Systeme Educatif Mauritanien
PFP                   Policy Framework Paper
PPC                   Project Preparation Committee
PPF                   Project Preparation Facility
SA                    Special Account
SOE                   Statement of Expenses
SPA                   Special Project Account
FISCAL YEAR                                               SCHOOL YEAR
January 1-December 31                                     October-June



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT (EDUCATION V)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT  AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY ................................................................I
1.  INTRODUCTION ................................................................1
II.  SECTORAL  CONTEXT  ................................................................1
A.  Background ................................................................1
B.  Economic Developments ...............................................................2
C. Medium-Term  Prospects and Policies ...................................................2
D.  The Education Sector ...............................................................3
1.  The Education System  ............................................................3
2.  Sector Development Issues . .....................................................3
3.  The Government's Education Strategy ..............                     ..........................6
E.  Lessons Learned ................................................................7
III. THE  PROJECT ................................................................8
A. Project Objectives, Scope and Description .............................................8
1.  Expand Access to and Improve the Quality of Primary Education .......9
2. Increase Access to and Improve the Quality of Secondary Education. 17
3.  Improve the Quality and Management of Higher Education ......                          ...... 19
4.  Promote Private-Sector Provision of Education .........                       .................. 20
5.  Strengthen Sector Planning, Management and Resource Use ........... 21
B.  Project Cost and Financing Plan .                     . ..................................................... 23
IV.  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION ............................................................... 24
A.  Status of Project Preparation and Readiness ......................................... 24
B. Project Coordination and Management ................................................ 24
C. Monitoring and Evaluation .............................................................. 25
D.  Procurement and Disbursement . ....................................................... 25
E.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting .................................................. 29
V. PROJECT  BENEFITS AND  RISKS ............................................................ 30
VI. AGREEMENTS BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .........                                                  ................ 31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission conducted in July 1994, comprising Rosemary Bellew, Mission
Leader; William D. Cooper, Education Specialist; Bernard Abeille, Architect/lmplementation Specialist; Kacem Ben-Salah,
Education Specialist; John McCall, Textbook Specialist; and Souleymane Sow, Projects Officer of the Mauritania Resident
Mission. Slaheddine Ben-Halima continued implementation support. Amy Ba processed the report which was finalized by
Ms. Bellew and Mr. Cooper. Jean-Louis Sarbib and Ok Pannenborg are the Department Director and the managing Division
Chief, respectively, for the operation. Jacob Bregman and Antoine Schwartz were the peer reviewers.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1     Basic Data, 1993
2-1    Flow Chart of the Education System
2-2    Organigram - Ministere de I'Education Nationale
3     Draft Policy Letter and Monitoring Indicators
4     Primary School Construction
5     Other Civil Works Program
- Privatization Resource Center
- Lower-Secondary Schools
- University of Nouakchott
6     Girls' Education
7     Textbooks
8     Curriculum Development and Teacher Training
9     Project Management and Coordination
10    Project Monitoring and Supervision Plan
11    Project Costs and Financing
12    Procurement Thresholds
13    Disbursement Profile
14    Key Documents in the Project File
MAP: IBRD 26343



i
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(EDUCATION V)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:    Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Beneficiary:   Ministry of Education
Credit
Amount:       SDR 23.8 million (US$35.0 million equivalent)
Terms:        Standard, with 40 years maturity
Cofimncing:  Not applicable
Project
Description:  The project would assist the Government in implementing its education sector
development program for the period 1993-2000, which aimns to (i) boost the gross
primary enrollment ratio from an estimated 77% in 1994/95 to 100% by 2000; (ii)
double intake into lower secondary school; (iii) improve the quality of education at all
levels; and (iii) improve the efficiency of resource mobilization and use in the sector.
To help achieve these objectives, the project would support policy reforms and
investment designed to:
1.    Expand access to and improve the quality of primary education by providing for: (i)
the construction of 1,430 new classrooms mostly in six educationally disadvantaged
regions and in peri-urban areas of Nouakchott to provide capacity for between 80%-
90% of the school-aged population; (ii) special measures to boost girls' participation;
(iii) the development and distribution of textbooks and teachers' guides; and (iv)
curricula development and teacher training.
2.    Increase access to and imnrove the quality of secondary education by: (i) constructing
120 middle-school classrooms (a maximum of 20 schools) and auxiliary facilities; and
(ii) improving the quality of science and language teaching.
3.    Improve the quality and management of higher education by:  (i) increasing the
availability of learning materials and improving management in the short-run; and (ii)
supporting the preparation of a long-term development plan.
4.    Promote private sector provision of education  by (i) modifying the existing legal
framework to facilitate expansion; and (ii) expanding opportunities for pre- and in-
service teacher training of private school teachers.
5.    Strengthen sector Rlanning. management and resource use by: (i) improving education
planning and management at all levels, particularly of personnel; and (ii) supporting
pre-investment studies and project management and coordination.



ii
Benefits
and Risks:   Project benefits would be widespread. Over the five-year period 1994/95-1999/2000
through classroom construction and efficiency measures, the project would provide
about 64,000 additional student places mostly in underserved peri-urban areas of
Nouakchott, and in six regions where access to primary education is lowest, raising
their enrollment ratios from between 60%-70%  to an estimated 80%-90%  and the
national enrollment ratio from 77% to nearly 90%. Mutually reinforcing qualitative
improvements, in the form of better trained teachers, an adequate supply of textbooks
and improved school management would improve learning and reduce repetition and
drop-out.  The project would introduce or continue to support several innovative
measures, with potentially significant returns, such as: (i) programs to boost girls'
primary school enrollment from 44% to 50% of the total, and corresponding increases
in secondary education and teacher training; (ii) delegation of pedagogical support from
the central ministry to regional and departmental levels to make the system more
responsive to local needs; and (iii) improvements in environmental and health
education. Local communities would be required to participate financially in primary
school construction and maintenance, reducing the burden on the Government budget
and increasing ownership and sustainability.
There are three main risks. First, the Government's capacity to manage a program of
the scope envisaged under the project is not assured. For the civil works components,
this risk would be addressed by transferring responsibility for implementing
construction from the ministry to AMEXTIPE and communities, and limiting the
Government's role to oversight and quality control. Second, the innovative programs
proposed under the project, in particular those to boost girls' participation,
strengthening decentralization, and in-service teacher training, are risky and may not
fully reach their objectives. Risks in these areas would be addressed by detailed
planning, careful monitoring and annual reviews of progress, and making adjustments
to project scope and content during implementation when necessary.   Third,
institutional and management capacities may take longer than five years to improve.
Recognizing this risk, the proposed project would continue the process of capacity
building begun under the ongoing education project (Cr. 1943-MAU) with the
expectation that additional support would need to be provided under future projects.
No environmental risks are foreseen. Classrooms and related structures would be
located on Government or community property, and constructed following procedures
and design standards approved by the Bank under the ongoing education project.



iii
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)T
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS2
LOCAL        FOREIGN    TOTAL
1. Expand access to and improve the                   9.2          13.7          22.9
quality of primary education
2. Expand access to and improve the quality of        1.5           5.0           6.5
secondary education
3. Improve the quality and management                 0.3           1.4           1.7
of higher education
4. Promote private-sector education                   0.0           0.3           0.3
5. Strengthen sector planning, management             3.0           3.5           6.5
and resource use
5. PPF refinancing                                    0.3           0.4           0.7
Total Base Costs                                  14.3         24.3          38.6
Physical Contingencies                            0.3           0.7           1.0
Price Contingencies                                1.1          1.9           3.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                               15.7         26.9          42.6
Financing Plan (US$ million)
IDA                                    35.0
Government                              4.3
Communities                             3.3
TOTAL                                  42.6
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
US$ Millions
IDA FY                96          97         98         99          00         01
Annual                5.0        6.8        7.3         7.3        6.0        2.6
Cumulative            5.0       11.8        19.1       26.4       32.4       35.0
Economic Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Totals may not add up due to rounding.
2 Excluding primary classroom construction, project costs are net of all local taxes and import duties.






ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(EDUCATION V)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       The Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania has requested IDA's
assistance in financing a project designed to help implement its development program for the
education sector, focusing on primary and secondary education.  The proposed project's
principal objectives are to assist Mauritania in providing access to primary education for all
school-aged children (6 to 11 years old), and to improve quality, management and resource use
at all levels of education. Secondary objectives include improving access to lower secondary
education, promoting private sector participation in education, and preparing a development
program for higher education.
1.2       The proposed project builds on the sector development program begun and
implemented under the ongoing Third Education Project (Credit 1943-MAU, SDR13.2 million,
1988).  Its policy measures and associated investment program were developed through
extensive dialogue with Mauritanian authorities, based on pre-investment studies and seminars
related to sector policy options, classroom construction, multigrade teaching, improving girls'
participation and textbook availability, which led to the preparation of a Letter of Education
Sector Policy and related investment components.
1.3       Total project costs are estimated at US$42.6 million, net of taxes and duties, with
a foreign exchange component of about US$26.9 million. IDA would finance US$35.0
million. The Government of Mauritania would contribute about US$4.3 million equivalent in
incremental salary costs; and communities would contribute the equivalent of US$3.3 million
to the school construction component of the project. The Government and the Bank have
contacted all potential donors to assess the availability of other financing for the Government's
sectoral program. With the exception of France and the AfDB, no other donors are involved
in the education sector in Mauritania, or plan to become involved in the near future. In
parallel to the proposed project, the Cooperation fran9aise is financing a support program for
teacher training at the primary and secondary levels (PARSEM 1994-1998) and the Caisse
franfaise de developpement is financing primary classroom construction at an estimated
US$2.0 million annually for 1994 and 1995. The AfDB may eventually prepare a follow-up
operation to the on-going IDA-AfDB financed education project (Cr. 1943-MAU). However,
such a project has not yet been put into the AfDB pipeline.
II. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Background
2.1       Mauritania is a vast desert country of about one million square kilometers, with a
very limited resource base and a population of just over two million, growing at a rate of
2.8% per year. Per-capita income is US$510, placing Mauritania at the upper end of low-
income economies. The level of urbanization is 48%, the highest in the Sahel and well above
the Sub-Sahara African average of 29%. The largest urban concentration is in Nouakchott



2
where 39% of the population lives. Standards of living are low: life expectancy at birth is
only 47 years; infant mortality is 120 per thousand live births; and an estimated 66% of the
population aged 15 and over is illiterate. Major economic activities include iron ore mining in
the North, irrigated agriculture in the Senegal valley, and fishing, which together account for
all export earnings (mining 39%, fishing 57%). Earnings from iron ore, formerly the largest
foreign exchange earner, have been declining since the mid-1980s due to falling world prices.
The commercial fishing industry is dominated by foreign interests and employs fewer than
10,000 Mauritanian workers.  Agricultural production fluctuates as a result of periodic
droughts; however, subsistence agriculture is the largest employer (about 50% of the working
population) and contributes about one-fourth of GDP.
B. Economic Developments
2.2        During the end of the 1970s and the beginning of the 1980s, Mauritania's strategy
for economic development emphasized the development of a modern and diversified economy
based on mining, fishing, and irrigated agriculture. Achievements were few, however, due to
mismanagement, a fall in world prices for iron ore, and drought. As a result, income per
capita fell in real terms between 1980-1985. Following this period, a comprehensive economic
adjustment program was put in place with support from the World Bank and the IMF
(Economic and Financial Recovery Program, 1985-88; Consolidation Program, 1989-91).
These efforts were notably successful in reorienting Government policy in the management of
public resources, monetary and credit policies (including liberalization of the exchange rate
regime), liberalization of pricing and trade policies, public administration, banking, public
enterprise reform and private sector promotion.
2.3        Progress was largely interrupted in 1989, however, during a period marked by
conflicts with Senegal, cutbacks in external financing and more unfavorable weather. As a
result, GDP growth declined to an average of 0.8% a year as output in agriculture, mining and
fisheries fell, and the domestic financial imbalance worsened. By late 1992, the Government
turned its attention back to the adjustment program with generally satisfactory results (the
banking and fisheries sectors excepted)--inflation stabilized; the current account deficit fell; the
Ougyia was devalued by 27% against the US dollar (in October 1992) to boost competitiveness
and exports; and GDP grew in real terms by 4.9% in 1993.
C. Medium-Term Prospects and Policies
2.4        A Fifth-Year Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1993-96, guides the reform
program in its next phase.  The framework emphasizes sustainable GDP growth (3.5%),
containment of inflation (to 3.5%), equilibrium in external current accounts, and a strong
promotion of the private sector. Key measures supported by the framework include:
maintenance of a liberalized foreign exchange system and monetary policies which promote
market forces; broadening the export base; expanding private sector involvement in the
fisheries sector; completion of the privatization of public enterprises; and adopting reforms in
the legal and regulatory framework for private sector operations. On the financial front, the
PFP supports broadening the tax base and raising domestic savings. In the social sectors,



3
Government expenditure for basic education and primary health care are expected to increase
in line with expanding demand.
D. The Education Sector
1. The Education System
2.5        The formal education system operated by the Ministry of Education consists of six
years of primary schooling (enseignement fondamental) and three years each of lower- and
upper-general secondary education (college and lycke).   Secondary technical education is
provided in two-year programs at technical colleges to lower-secondary graduates and in
technical Iycees to upper-secondary graduates Higher education is provided by the University
of Nouakchott and five post-secondary specialized institutions. Primary teachers are trained at
two teacher training colleges--Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs (ENI, Nouakchott and Aioun);
secondary teachers are trained at the Ecole Normale Superieure (ENS, Nouakchott), associated
with the University.
2.6        In 1993/94, about 220,000 students were enrolled in primary schools, and 41,200
in secondary schools (1,200 in technical schools). The ENIs enrolled about 800 students, the
ENS about 200, and the University about 10,000 (7,500 in-country and 2,500 abroad). In
primary and secondary education, instruction is provided in two separate streams, the filiere
Arabe, which uses Arabic as the language of instruction, and the filre bilingue, which uses
French. The Arabic stream accounts for 94% of primary students and 89% of secondary
students. Annex I provides basic data; Annex 2 shows the structure of the education system
and the organization of the Ministry of Education.
2. Sector Development Issues
2.7        In recent years, the demand for formal education in Mauritania has increased
significantly. Between 1990 and 1993, the number of students enrolled in primary grade 1
increased from 33,000 to 57,000, representing 48% and 88% of the population of six-year
olds, respectively. The gross primary enrollment ratio (GER) increased from 51% to 72% as a
result, the largest increase achieved in any Sahelian country in such a short time. Communities
put up classrooms, often with Government assistance, and the Government provided operating
inputs. Pressures for increased access to secondary and higher education are increasing also.
Between 1990 and 1993, enrollment increased from 35,000 to 40,000 in general secondary
education and from 7,500 to 10,000 in higher education.
2.8        Laudable though this effort has been, the education system has many needs and is
confronted with important issues at all levels. Chief among them are: (i) at the primary level,
access remains limited in certain regions of the country and among girls; and at the secondary
and higher levels, pressure for access is outpacing Government capacity to comply; (ii) the
quality of services provided at all levels is dubious; and (iii) inadequate planning and
ineffective management have allowed the education enterprise to mushroom at high cost and
with unsatisfactory results.



4
2.9        Limited Access to Primary Education. Since 1990, communities have doubled the
number of classrooms put into use each year from 150 to 300 (roughly 200 with Government
support). Largely as a result of these efforts, primary enrollments have increased significantly
and now (1994/95) account for an estimated 77% of school-aged children, higher than the 70%
average for Sub-Saharan Africa. Enrollment ratios, however, are particularly low in the East
and Fleuve regions (ranging between 45% and 50%) and among girls (58% on average).
Overall, girls represent only 44% of primary enrollment and their share falls to below 40% in
the East and Fleuve regions.
2.10       If the Government is to reach the objective of enrolling all 6 to 11 year olds by
the year 2000, efforts to expand primary education need to be increased and to focus
particularly on these groups. Simulations show that to achieve universal access by the year
2000, about 525 additional classrooms would need to be opened each year (a total of 2,620
classrooms and 118,000 new student places), assuming low drop out rates (2% per grade), a
sharp decline in the average repetition rate from 16% to 3% and double-shifting in 33% of
urban schools. If the repetition rate cannot be reduced to this level, more classrooms would be
required. Although at present the demand for primary education is certainly strong, it is
unclear whether communities can maintain and increase this level of demand, particularly as it
depends on population groups further from the mainstream and on encouraging girls'
enrollment.
2.11       Poor Quality of Education. The outcomes of education at all levels leave a lot to
be desired. Primary schools create many failures at an early age. Repetition rates average
16% in grades 1 to 5, and reach 34% in grade 6 (1992/93). Classrooms are crowded, the
programs are difficult, only about 20% of students have access to textbooks, most teachers do
not have course syllabi, and pre-service teacher training has largely provided an academic
general secondary education. In-service professional support services are also sorely lacking.
Once trained, teachers are posted and largely forgotten.
2.12       These weaknesses have repercussions on secondary education as well. Although
only about one-third of primary graduates are selected into secondary school, the majority do
not possess the requisite knowledge, skills and competencies to succeed. A 1992 evaluation of
9th grade achievement in mathematics, natural science and the language of instruction (Arabic
or French) rated students as very poor to poor in natural sciences and math, and mediocre in
the language of instruction. In all cases, students were strongest in recalling facts and weakest
in applying previous knowledge to new situations, solving problems, synthesizing material and
drawing conclusions. This poor performance is reflected in high repetition (10% per grade)
and failure rates, particularly in the East and Fleuve regions where primary education is also
weakest.
2.13       Although low-quality primary education is partly responsible for the poor results
at the secondary level, secondary education also bears some responsibility. Compared with
primary students, secondary students and schools are better equipped. An estimated 70% of
students have textbooks, 95% have notebooks and writing tools, and class sizes, although
growing, are kept to a reasonable limit. Education personnel is abundant. Teachers work on
average only 14 hours a week, compared to the official 20 hours; the student:teacher ratio



averages only 22:1, and administrative staff is excessive. Despite these resources, many
students do not succeed due to an overcharged and difficult curriculum, an important number
of disinterested teachers (particularly language teachers), and little emphasis on professionalism
and pedagogical support. As at the primary level, the majority of teachers do not have course
syllabi; less than half of teachers have instructional guides and even fewer have any other
teaching tool (maps, exercise books, mathematical tools, etc.); only half of all schools have a
library with materials for teachers' reference; most teachers find inspectors' visits useless, and
in-service training is rare. With the exception of mathematics teachers, during the past six
years teachers received, on average, only 15 days of professional training and only one-third of
all teachers participated.
2.14       In higher education, the outcomes are equally poor. Although enrollment has risen
dramatically at the University of Nouakchott and in some of its associated institutions,
estimates show that about 80% of entering students will fail and drop out before earning a
diploma. The poor quality of secondary education is one factor that explains this performance.
Equally important, however, are open adrnission policies and a general neglect of academic
content. Open admission to any baccalaureate holder at the University of Nouakchott has led to
serious overcrowding. Intended to initially accommnodate 1,600 students, the present University
enrollment is about 7,000.
2.15       The Government has historically given little attention to higher education, and
funding has been inadequate and sporadic. Laboratories are under-equipped and library
resources over-extended. Academic programs were developed by inadequately qualified staff
and established by legislative decree at the time the institutions were founded (1980s). Most
programs lack clear objectives and content is seriously deficient, outdated, and out of sync
with labor market needs. University professors often perform poorly, in part because many of
them lack a solid academic background (a high percentage of academic staff hold junior rank)
but also because of inadequate pedagogical backstopping and a demotivating lack of logistic
support.
2.16       Weak Resource Management.  Financial manent. Budget allocations and
expenditures are skewed in favor of secondary and higher education. Primary education, with
80% of the student population, receives about 38% of the total education budget. Secondary
education, with less than 15% of the student population, is allocated 34% of the budget; and
higher education, with 3.7% of total students, gets 20% of the budget. At all levels, costs are
driven by excessive personnel on the education payroll. In secondary and particularly higher
education, there is virtually no cost sharing with parents. In higher education, generous
allocations for social support services and overseas fellowships account for over 50% of the
budget.
2.17       Personnel management. There is excess staff in the sector and control over staff
behavior and movements is inadequate. Currently, an estimated minimum of between 800-
1,000 staff are paid through the education budget but do not actually work for the department
from whose budget they are being paid. Often, they do not even work for the Ministry of
Education. At the secondary and higher levels of education, excessive staff numbers result in
very low student:staff ratios (22:1 in secondary, 3:1 at the ENS and 1:1 in the ENA) while at



6
the primary level the average student:teacher ratio has reached 55:1, and is increasing. At the
primary level, and to a certain extent the secondary level as well, teacher absentee and
disappearance rates are discouragingly high. The MEN has stepped up the sanctioning of
teachers for absences and post abandonment, and as of 1993/94 it has officially barred transfers
during the school-year. These actions notwithstanding, the MEN is ill-equipped to monitor
teachers' actions and movements which are often supported by local authorities.  At the
secondary level, teacher absenteeism is due mainly to weak school level management which
focuses more on controlling student behavior than on managing an educational institution--
managing inputs and staff, interacting with parents, setting standards, and providing support to
meet those standards.
2.18       Institutional management.   At the central level, good planning and management
needs to be taken more seriously and strengthened, and the functions of the different units in
the Ministry need to be more clearly defined to eliminate overlap. Largely bereft of operating
resources, it is difficult for any one unit to carry out its functions effectively. Moreover, past
efforts in capacity building in education planning have not been effective.  Most of the
planning work was too technically sophisticated, with heavy reliance on expatriate technical
assistance, and effective capacity was never built to continue implementation.
3. The Government's Education Strategy
2.19       The Government's education sector policies were last formulated in the context of
the 1986 national plan for economic, social and cultural development, which recognized
education as a development priority. Based on this plan, a number of short-term action
programs, generally of two years duration, have directed the development of the sector. Little
progress was registered up to 1990. Since then, however, primary enrollment has increased at
an average of 10% a year (compared with 2.3% between 1986 and 1990) due to a successful
school construction program, increased demand and the expansion of multigrade teaching in
rural areas.
2.20       For the period  1995-2000, the Government's priorities for education are
formulated in a Letter of Education Development Policy, attached as Annex 3. Primary
education will remain the priority sub-sector, with the specific objective of increasing capacity
to accommodate all 6 to 11 year olds by the year 2000 while improving educational services
(programs, materials, and teachers). In secondary education, the focus will be on expanding
access to the lower cycle to accommodate an increasing number of primary school graduates
(although the transition rate will fall from 35% to 25%), and on improving the quality of
education in both cycles. In higher education, the emphasis will be placed on admission
control and quality improvements, and on the development and implementation of a long-term
restructuring program that aims to rationalize functions and resource use, strengthen academic
autonomy and management, improve scientific and technological programs, and strengthen
applied research. At all levels of education, improved resource management and cost control
will be emphasized, notably at the primary and secondary levels, through support for the
expansion of private schools and in higher education through reductions in social costs.



7
E. Lessons Learned
2.21       The Bank Group has supported the education sector in Mauritania since 1975.
The first two projects (Cr. 459-MAU, US$3.8 million, closed 1982; Cr. 1214-MAU, US$5.7
million, closed 1988) mainly financed vocational and maritime training, teacher training and
strengthening planning capacities. The third (ongoing) operation (Cr. 1943-MAU, SDR 13.2
million, cofinanced by the AfDB) supports the expansion of primary education and teacher
training, the provision of textbooks, a restructuring of secondary technical education, and
quality improvements in vocational training.  Relatively good results with the last two
components led to a free-standing Technical Education and Vocational Training Support
Project (Cr. 2521-MAU, SDR 8.9 million) which became effective in March 1994.
2.22       PCRs of past education projects and supervision reports of the ongoing project
confirm that implementation continues to be slowed down by cumbersome, time-consuming
administrative procedures, an inappropriate, highly centralized procurement system, and delays
in providing counterpart funds (particular in foreign currencies) for project expenditures.
Similar problems beset project implementation in other sectors. Unfortunately, in the past
these issues have not been systematically analyzed and addressed across all sectors. Steps are
now being taken, however, to deal with administrative and structural problems on a country-
wide level through a proposed Economic Management Project, scheduled to become effective
in FY96. Procurement issues are also beginning to be addressed through ongoing IDA reviews
of central and departmental procurement regulations and practices, while the problem of timely
provision of foreign exchange for project expenditures is being raised in the context of the
1995 Public Expenditure Review.
2.23       Another lesson learned from experience in the education sector is that despite
significant amounts of technical assistance, local staff training, and institutional and logistic
support provided under all projects, most departments in the Ministry of Education remain
weak and continue to rely on external TA for their planning, programming, and management
functions.   To help break this reliance and encourage local staff to assume their
responsibilities, project-financed TA would consist only of short-term, sharply-focused
assigmnents, spread over the duration of the project. Under the proposed project, long-term
technical assistance and local staff training would largely be provided through twinning
arrangements with overseas institutions having recognized expertise in the areas of concern.



8
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives, Scope and Description
3.1         Development Objectives.    The  project would  assist the  Government in
implementing its education sector development program for the period 1995-2000, which aims
to provide access to primary education for all school-age children by the year 2000, expand
access to lower-secondary education, improve quality and resource use at all levels of
education, and strengthen planning and management.
3.2          Project Obiectives. To help achieve these objectives, the project would support
policy measures and investments designed to: (a) expand access to primary education, focusing
on rural areas and the participation of girls, and improve its quality; (b) expand access to and
improve the quality of secondary education; (c) improve the quality and management of higher
education; and (d) strengthen sector planning, management and resource use. The composition
of the investment program is summarized in the box below.
PROJECT COMPONENTS
1.     Expand Access to and Improve the Quality of Prinary Education by:
Financing a community-based primary classroom construction program
Supporting special measures to boost girls' participation
Improving the development and distribution of textbooks and teachers' guides
Improving curricula and teacher training
2.      Expand Access to and Improve the Quality of Secondary Education by:
Constructing lower-secondary schools (collIges)
Improving instruction in core subjects
3.     Improve the Quality and Management of Higher Education by:
Strengthening education management and improving quality in the short run
Preparing a long-term development program
4       Promote private-sector provision of education
Modifying the legal framework
Expanding opportunities for pre- and in-service training
5.      Strengthen Sector Planning, Management and Resource Use by:
Strengthening capacity for educational planning and personnel management
Supporting project management and coordination



9
3.3       In addition to these investments, the project would support the implementation of
the following policy measures at the primary level to ensure the attainment of enrollment
targets within reasonable budgetary limits: (a) generalizing double-shift and multigrade
teaching to all eligible schools in urban and rural areas, respectively; (b) reducing the
repetition rate; (c) increasing the proportion of instituteurs-adjoints; and (d) applying a set of
measures to promote the enrollment of girls. At the secondary level, average teaching time
would be increased from 18 to 25 hours a week through a continuation of the redeployment
process of Iycee professors to the colleges and training in more than one subject, and
expenditures on non-teaching staff would be reduced from 42% to 35% of the secondary
education budget through the continued application of the policy of non-replacement of retirees
and staff redeployment to other vacated posts. At both primary and secondary levels, the
Government would implement measures to promote the expansion of private schools (para
3.50 - 3.53).
3.4        Progress in achieving sectoral and project objectives would be measured against a
set of monitoring indicators (Annex 3), developed by and agreed upon with the Government.
They form an integral part of the Government's sector development policy. Indicators include
annual targets for classroom construction, girls' enrollment, teacher recruitment, repetition,
multigrade and double-shift teaching, student:staff ratios, and budget allocations. Recurrent
cost implications and resulting budget shares by level of education are given in para 3.67.
3.5        Scope. The project would provide broad-based support for system-wide quality
improvements in primary and general secondary education, centering on strengthening core
teaching and learning support systems. It would contribute to increasing enrollment in regions
where participation rates are lowest. Primary classroom construction would be concentrated in
the East and Fleuve regions, selected on the basis of their low enrollment ratios, and in peri-
urban areas of Nouakchott, where the population growth rate is highest. Lower-secondary
education would be extended to towns without existing facilities. Both programs would be
accompanied by interventions at the national and local levels to boost girls' participation.
Support for higher education would focus on meeting immediate needs for physical
rehabilitation, and on developing a restructuring plan for the University and its associated
institutions. In parallel to this proposed project, the French Government would support
primary and secondary classroom construction, pre-service and in-service teacher training,
secondary school management and education planning.
1. Expand Access to and Improve the Quality of Primary Education (US$ 25.4
million)
3.6        The project would contribute to the Government's objectives to increase the gross
primary enrollment ratio from an estimated 77% in 1994/95 to 100% by the year 2000, and
improve the quality and efficiency of primary education through: (a) a community-based
classroom construction program; (b) special measures to boost girls' participation; (c) the
development and distribution of textbooks and teachers' guides; and (d) curriculum
development and teacher training.



10
(a) Financing a Community-based Primary Classroom Construction
Program (US$ 18.2 million)
3.7       Scope and Objectives. The proposed project would finance the construction of
1,430 classrooms, about 55% of the estimated classrooms required to reach the Govermnent's
objective of 100% enrollment capacity by the year 1999/2000. The new classrooms financed
by the project would provide about 64,000 student places to increase the national enrollment
ratio to 87% by 1999/2000. Project classrooms would be mainly constructed in underserved
regions in the Fleuve and the East to provide sufficient capacity to raise the enrollment ratio in
these regions from 60-70% to 80%, and in the high-growth peri-urban areas of Nouakchott to
increase the enrollment ratio slightly from 88% to 90%, over the life of the project. The rest
of the Government's program required to reach an enrollment ratio of 100% (about 1,200
classrooms, para 3.11) would be financed mainly by the Caisse fran7aise de developpement,
which has been financing the construction of about 200 classrooms per year and intends to
continue doing so.
3.8       Accompanying policy measures.  The above enrollment targets assume the
application of measures to ensure the needed supply of places, keep the primary education
budget within reasonable limits and enroll more girls through: (a) the generalization of double-
shift teaching in all eligible urban schools and of multigrade teaching in all eligible rural
schools which together would provide about 45,000 student places; (b) reduction of the
repetition rate from an average of 10% in 1993/94 to 3% in 1999/2000; and (c) recruitment of
50% instituteurs-adjoints by 1999/2000. With the application of these measures, primary
education's share of the education budget is expected to increase from 43% in 1994/95 to 51 %
in 1999/2000 (Annex 4).
3.9       As a condition of negotiations, the Government submitted satisfactory: (i)
implementations schedule for the double-shift and multigrade programs by year and by region;
(ii) draft circulars concerning limits in grade repetition and mandating annual recruitment into
the first year of primary school accompanied by multigrade teaching; and (iii) approved texts
defining the conditions of service of instituteurs-adjoints and the reorganization of the ENIs to
accommodate instituteur-adjoint programs.
3.10      Background. The primary enrollment ratio has grown rapidly from 55% in 1990
to an estimated 77% in 1994/95 due to high demand and a responsive classroom construction
program.  For the period 1994/95-1999/2000, the main objective of the Government's
education development program is to increase the gross primary enrollment ratio to 100%
which would require a capacity increase of about 170,000 student places--118,000 created
through the construction of 2,620 classrooms, and 52,000 created through the extension of
double-shift teaching in eligible urban schools (estimated at 33% of all urban schools). Of the
2,620 new classrooms required, nearly all will be needed in the high-growth peri-urban areas
of Nouakchott (550 classrooms), in three wilayas in the Eastern region (about 1,000), and in
three wilayas in the Fleuve (1,020). Classroom needs are minimal in the other wilayas where
most enrollment increase can be accommodated through the implementation of double-shift and
multigrade teaching. Estimates of classroom needs by wilaya are shown in Annex 4.



I1
3.11      Classroom Construction Program.  Under the ongoing education project (Cr.
1943-MAU), a classroom construction program based on community management and cost-
sharing was developed and put into place.  Communities are responsible for school
construction, either by doing the work themselves or by contracting it out to local
entrepreneurs.  In either case, communities are required to contribute to the cost of
construction by providing financing, labor and in some cases locally available materials.
Classroom designs are simple and adapted to local construction practices, and unit costs are
low  (about US$6,000 including materials, labor, and construction supervision).  The
Government provides communities with a subsidy of 50% (in urban areas) or 75% (in rural
areas) of the estimated total cost of civil works, which includes technical assistance to mobilize
the community, train local artisans to do the work, and supervise construction.  The
responsibilities of the community and the Government, including a payment schedule, are
spelled out in a contract signed by the two parties before construction starts. This approach,
developed and successfully implemented under the ongoing project, will be continued under the
proposed project, except that a uniform subsidy of 70% would apply to both urban and rural
classroom construction.
3.12      Proiect Support.  The project would support the Government's classroom
construction program by financing the construction of 1,430 new classrooms (55% of total
needs) and teacher furniture, auxiliary buildings (offices, stores and latrines) and low-cost
water supply improvements (connections, aprons on wells and boreholes) in 200 schools, and
the coordination and supervision of the program. The 1,430 new classrooms would be located
in the peri-urban areas of Nouakchott (370); in Gorgol (215), Assaba (160) and Brakna (120)
in the Fleuve region; in Hodh El Chargui (210), Hodh El Gharbi (155) and Guidimagha (135)
in the East; in Tagant (50) in the North; and the remaining 15 classrooms in Adrar and
Nouadhibou. The distribution of classrooms and corresponding enrollment increases are
shown in Table 2 of Annex 4.
3.13      The total cost of this program is estimated at UM2.3 billion (US$18.2 million).
The IDA credit would finance 70% of the cost of civil works for 1,430 new classrooms, 100%
of the costs of the water supply program, teachers' furniture for 1,430 classrooms, and the cost
of the regional construction teams (salaries, operating costs and equipment), at an estimated
cost of US$11.1 million. Communities would contribute 30% of the classroom costs or
US$3.3 million equivalent. The Government's contribution would consist of the incremental
recurrent cost of teachers needed to staff the new classrooms, estimated at US$3.8 million
equivalent. Details are given at Annex 4.
3.14      Implementation Arrangements. Community-assisted classroom construction will
be governed by a procedural manual specifying classroom designs and implementation and
financing arrangements, applied under the ongoing education project (Cr. 1943-MAU). The
MEN's planning department (Direction de la Planification, DPC) would prepare annual
programs of classroom construction, based on a country-wide school location map and
eligibility criteria agreed upon with IDA (Annex 4) These programs would be reviewed during
the joint annual reviews of project implementation.



12
3.15       The classroom construction program would be coordinated by the Direction des
Projets Education et Formation (DPE) and implemented by three regional construction teams
set up under the ongoing project. Each team would be headed by a regional technical
coordinator (CTR) under contract to the DPE. The CTRs would be responsible for community
mobilization, training local artisans, and supervising construction work. They would be
headquartered in the regions in which they work, remunerated on the basis of their production,
and given autonomy in the use of the resources allocated to them. If necessary, a fourth team
would be added to handle the construction program financed by the Caisse franCaise de
developpement. Terms of reference for the CTRs are at Annex 4. Project-financed water
works would be coordinated with the regular program of the Ministry of Hydraulics, which
would provide advisory services to the project. The installation of water connections and
aprons would be supervised by the regional technical coordinators (CTR), under the guidance
of the Ministry of Hydraulic, as required.
3.16       As a condition of negotiations, the Government submitted: (i) sites for the first
year of the classroom construction program; (ii) an agreement with the Ministry of Hydraulics
regarding its support services for the water program; (iii) a procedural manual for the
operation of the classroom construction program; and (iv) draft contracts for the CTRs. As a
condition of credit effectiveness, the Government would transmit to IDA signed contracts,
acceptable to IDA, for the regional construction coordinators (CTRs).
(b) Special Measures to Boost Girls' Participation (US$1.7 million)
3.17       Scope and Objectives. This component supports the implementation of an action
plan designed to increase girls' participation in primary education to 50% of total enrollment
by the year 2000, and improve their access to post-primary education. The program aims to
boost female admission, retention, achievement and promotion by: (a) adopting policies and
administrative measures designed to eliminate barriers to admission and promote continuation
in primary and secondary school; and (b) piloting targeted interventions in five regions where
girls' enrollment lags furthest behind that of boys.
3.18       Background. The Government's objective of a 100% primary enrollment ratio by
the year 2000 cannot be achieved without special efforts to increase the enrollment of girls. In
1994, girls comprised about 44% of primary enrollment, for a gross enrollment ratio of 58%
compared with a ratio of 69% for boys. Research done by the Government shows that,
nationally, the overall gap between girls' and boys' enrollment is mainly attributable to their
relatively lower participation rates in five regions (wilayas) in the East and the Fleuve: in
Hodh El Chargui, Gorgol and Guidimaka where girls comprise less than 40% of enrollment,
and in Assaba and Brakna where girls account for only 42%  of enrollment.  Factors
contributing to low enrollment and high dropout include some related to the education system
itself, and others to girls' economic and social environments. A lack of schools near home in
certain areas, non-annual admission in most rural schools, repetition and expulsion practices,
the poor quality of education, and limited access to further education or jobs play a role. In
addition, poverty and traditional expectations of girls' and women's contributions to the family
economy (in the Fleuve) conspire to increase the need for girls to work, while the importance



13
of marriage and family raising (particularly in the East), combined with late enrollment and
repetition, lead to abandonment at an early age.
3.i9       Policy and Administrative Measures. The proposed action program to promote
female education (Annex 6) includes the adoption of policies and administrative measures to:
(i) encourage admission of six-year olds to primary schools, thereby allowing girls to complete
the primary cycle before puberty or marriage; (ii) permit young mothers to finish their studies;
(iii) allow communities and schools greater authority to set the school calendar to accommodate
children's work requirements; (iv) increase to 50% the share of female secondary scholarship
recipients; and (v) increase the number of women in management positions in the Ministry of
Education. These measures would be complemented by interventions at the national level
consisting of a teacher information and education campaign, and a program of pedagogical
improvements, consisting of an evaluation of textbooks, the development of supplementary
teaching materials, and the development and introduction of awareness training in pre- and in-
service teacher training programs. Support for pedagogical improvements is included under
the research/evaluation and teacher training components of the project (paras 3.32-3.36).
3.20       Pilot Interventions. In five targeted wilayas (Hodh El Gharbi, Hodh El Chargui,
Gorgol, Guidimaka and Brakna), three interventions would be tried: (i) an information,
education and communication (IEC) campaign aimed at parents; (ii) organization at the school
level of extra teacher time into tutoring sessions for girls in grades 6 and 9 to improve their
ability to pass entrance exams into secondary school and teacher training colleges; and (iii) the
introduction of a pilot support fund to finance local initiatives to increase girls' enrollment.
3.21       The Dilot support fund (Fonds d'Appui aux Filles or FAF) would provide grants
to schools to finance the cost of small-scale projects developed by a school, group of schools,
or recognized community group such as the parent-teacher association (APE), and designed to
increase admission and lower drop out rates among girls. Interventions supported under the
program would stress pedagogical support and improved relations with the community. The
FAF program would start on a pilot basis in Brakna during the second year of the project, and
would be extended to Gorgol and Guidimaka during the third year. Grants would be modest,
averaging UM200,000 (US$1,600) per project, and would cover about 300 schools in the five
priority regions. Criteria for accessing the Fund, evaluating project proposals and awarding
grants would be spelled out in a procedural manual.
3.22       Project Support. With respect to the IEC program, the project would finance 10
months of international consultant services to help develop the program; 50 months of local
specialist services for program coordination and the preparation of the IEC campaign and its
promotional materials; workshops for education personnel to disseminate the results of studies
and the program; staff training in social marketing methods; and logistic support and
operational costs. As for the FAF, the project would finance the equivalent of US$0.5 million
in grants to schools; 5 months of local and 10 months of international specialist services to
help develop, implement and evaluate the prograrn; and the cost of training workshops and
associated operating costs. An independent consultant would evaluate the Fund's performance
annually.



14
3.23       As a condition of negotiations, the Government prepared: (i) targets for girls'
share in primary enrollment in each region; (ii) a draft implementation plan for the IEC
program; and (iii) a draft procedural manual governing the operation of the FAF.
3.24       Responsibility for Implementation.  Responsibility for supervising the national
program, revising policies and practices, and managing the FAF would lie with the Direction
de l'Enseignement Fondamental (DEF), who would appoint a task manager. The Secretanat
de l'Etat a la Condition Feminine would be responsible for the IEC campaign. Evaluation of
learning materials and production of supplementary materials would be managed by the IPN, as
part of its textbook evaluation and production program. The introduction of training modules
into teacher training programs would be handled by the directors of the ENIs. Disbursements
from the FAF would be managed by the DPE.
(c) Improving the Development and Provision of Textbooks (US$3.7 million)
3.25       Scope and Objectives.  The objectives of this component are to establish an
equitable and cost-effective system for the supply of textbooks and ensure that all students have
the use of a set of books in core subjects.
3.26       Background. The ongoing Education Sector Restructuring Project (CR. 1943-
MAU) finances a program to develop, procure and sell about 189,000 textbooks for primary
schools, 94,000 textbooks for lower-secondary schools (colleges) and 174,000 textbooks for
upper-secondary schools (Iycees), along with teachers' guides, and to build some capacity at
the IPN to print small quantities of books. About 10% of the books have been delivered; the
remainder (mostly secondary books) are expected to be available for the 1995/96 school-year.
Books are sold by the IPN to students and booksellers through its kiosks at "symbolic" prices
of UM100 for primary books, UM180 for lower-secondary books, and UM200 for upper-
secondary books. Proceeds from sales are deposited into a Treasury account and used for
stock replenishment and operating costs (warehouse maintenance, transportation, payment of
commissions to sales personnel, etc.).
3.27       The present system of textbook distribution, sales and cost recovery is not
working well. Although sales have increased, even at symbolic prices, sales of primary books
have been low totaling around 33,750 copies in 1991 and 130,210 in 1994; receipts over that
time increased from UM 3 to 14.4 million (US$24,000-115,000). The limited sales and cost
recovery is related to several factors. First, even at low prices parents cannot afford to buy a
full set of books. Second, all but 16 of the sales points are located in Nouakchott which limits
access for rural parents. Third, sales points and prices have not been sufficiently publicized.
Finally, receipts from textbook sales cannot finance book reprints in any significant volume as
the symbolic prices cover less than 50% of printing costs, to which must be added
development, distribution and personnel costs. As for textbook distribution, the IPN delivers
books to its kiosks and some schools, but cannot cover the entire country with its small fleet of
vehicles. Low sales and inadequate distribution have resulted in most rural pupils not having
any books, while there are sizable stocks in the IPN warehouse.



15
3.28       Project Support. The project would extend and strengthen the pilot book sales
system supported by the on-going education project (Cr. 1943). To extend the system, the
IDA credit would finance the publishing, printing and distribution costs of about one million
primary textbooks in reading, mathematics and environmental science and 75,000 teachers'
guides in the same subjects. Total number of copies by title and book specifications are shown
in Annex 7. Revenues collected would be deposited into the Treasury account set up under the
ongoing project and earmarked for the replenishment of book stocks. The Government would
cover the costs of any loss or subsidies. Teachers' guides would be supplied free of charge.
Textbooks would be delivered to schools in locally-produced metal trunks (cantines) which
would be used for book storage at the school. Delivery to schools would be contracted out to
private sector transporters, a more cost-effective option than relying on the small IPN fleet of
vehicles. As a condition of negotiations, the Government submitted textbook specifications
and a procurement and delivery schedule and usable books in the central warehouse have been
distributed to schools.
3.29       The project would also finance the upgrading of IPN's warehouse in Nouakchott
(minor repairs to the facilities, shelving stacking and improved packaging); shelving for
regional storage facilities; the purchase of 2,800 cantines to serve both as transport containers
and as storage cabinets in primary schools; the cost of transporting books from the central
warehouse to the schools; training of IPN staff in textbook writing and editing skills, desktop
publishing and production control; short-term technical assistance for plant maintenance; and a
publicity campaign to inform the public of the new textbook programn.
3.30       ResRonsibility  for implementation.   The IPN  would  be responsible  for
coordinating the implementation of this component, including writing and editing manuscripts,
developing pedagogical and technical specifications of textbooks, and organizing training
seminars for teacher trainers and inspectors on the new books. Private publishers, selected
through ICB, would handle the publication and production tasks and deliver the books to the
IPN warehouse in Nouakchott, while the IPN would produce limited runs of teachers' guides.
Private sector transporters, under contract to the IPN, would be responsible for the distribution
of books from IPN warehouses to schools.
(d) Improving Curricula and Teacher Training (US$1.8 million)
3.31       Scope and Obiectives.   This component would assist the Government in
developing a capacity for curriculum development and establishing an in-service teacher
training program.
3.32       Background. At present, there is little professional capacity and organization at
the primary or secondary level to develop curricula, revise programs and materials, and get
them used effectively in schools. Most teaching programs are outdated and highly selective,
even at the primary level. Subjects are compartmentalized and recognition and recall skills are
emphasized, characteristics which are incompatible with the objectives of attaining universal
functional literacy and an adaptable labor force. For lack of alternative models, teachers
reinforce the academic value of learning, expect that many students will fail, and use rote
learning methods.



16
3.33       The ongoing education project (Cr. 1943-MAU) has financed the construction of a
pre-service teacher training college in Aioun to expand training capacity. Under its PARSEM
program, the Cooperation franaise has assisted the Government in revising pre-service
teacher training programs to give more emphasis to teaching methods and practice teaching.
The revised programs will be introduced in 1994/95. In-service teacher training, however,
lacks structure, organization, and programs, which severely limit the possibility of change in
the short and medium-run, not only with respect to curriculum and methodological
improvements but also to achieving other objectives the Government has set, such as the
extension of multigrade teaching, and improved enrollment and achievement of girls.
3.34       Project support.  In the area of curriculum development, the project would
support: (i) a program to evaluate the primary school curricula, textbooks and teachers' guides
in language arts and mathematics, and revise weak or problematic training materials; (ii) a
major revision of the social studies program (6tude du milieu) to improve the integration and
relevance of health and environmental issues; and (iii) capacity building in curriculum
development. For this program, the project would finance 16 months of consultant services
and training through a twinning arrangement with an external institution with proven
competence in curriculum development, study tours to countries in the region, and logistic
support. As a condition of negotiations, the Government submitted: (i) confirmation of
institutional responsibilities for curriculum development, and pedagogical research and
evaluation; and (ii) draft terms of reference and a short list of qualified institutions to establish
a twinning arrangement with an external institution for consultancy and training services in
curriculum evaluation and development.
3.35       For both pre-service and in-service teacher training, the project would support the
development and implementation of training modules for teaching double-shift and multigrade
classes and for improving girls' education, by financing equipment for the ENI in Aioun, 20
months of short-term technical assistance, and the costs of training workshops for 1,100
teachers in multigrade classroom teaching, 1,500 teachers in double-shift classroom teaching,
and 1,200 teachers in the promotion of girls' education. The project would also finance a pilot
program to support in-service teacher training at the departmental inspectorates in difficult-to-
reach areas. In _re-service teacher training, the project would finance the rehabilitation and
equipping of the ENI in Nouakchott to complement the assistance of the Cooperation fran!aise
in program development and evaluation. Details are provided in Annex 8.
3.36       Implementation Arrangements. Responsibilities for in-service teacher training are
shown in Annex 8. With respect to the development of modules supported by the IDA credit,
the ENI in Nouakchott would be responsible for developing modules for double-shift teaching,
and the ENI in Aioun for developing modules for multigrade teaching and girls' education.



17
2. Expand Access to and Improve the Quality of Secondary Education (US$7.3
million)
3.37       The project supports the Government's objectives of increasing student intake into
lower-secondary education (college) from about 9,000 in 1993/94 to about 18,000 by the year
2000, stabilizing upper-secondary enrollments at current levels, and improving the content and
quality of both lower- and upper-secondary education.
(a) Expanding Access to Lower-Secondary Education (US$5.0 million)
3.38       Scope and Objectives. This component supports the objective of increasing access
to lower-secondary education by financing the construction of 20 small colleges, about one-
third of the total capacity needed to accommodate the planned enrollment increase at college
level.
3.39       Background. Under the Government's education development program, intakes
into lower-secondary education (grade 7) would increase from about 9,300 in 1993/94 (35% of
primary school leavers) to about 18,000 by the year 2000 (23% of primary school leavers). As
a result, total enrollments in lower-secondary schools would increase from about 26,000 to
50,000 over the period, or 24,000 student places. Most of this increase (about 18,000 student
places) would be accommodated in 60 small colleges, of which one-third would be constructed
in major urban centers where demand is high, and two-thirds in smaller urban agglomerations
in the interior of the country. The remaining enrollment increase of about 6,000 students
would be accommodated in existing facilities by reducing entry requirements in regions outside
Nouakchott where colleges are currently under-enrolled, and by applying efficiency measures
such as increasing class sizes and improving classroom scheduling.
3.40       Proiect Support. The project supports this program by financing the construction,
furnishing and equipping of 20 colleges of six classrooms each (total 6,000 places) in small
urban centers without existing facilities. Construction would include administrative offices,
water supplies, sanitary facilities and fencing. Total costs are estimated at UM375 million
(US$5.0 million) including architectural services, financed at 100% by the IDA Credit. As a
condition of negotiations, the Government submitted a list of sites selected for the construction
of the colleges and draft terms of reference for architectural studies.  The remaining
infrastructure requirements, equivalent to about 40 colleges (12,000 student places) would be
financed by the Government and other donors. At present, ten colleges in Nouakchott are
being financed under the Construction Capacity and Employment Project (Cr.2455-MAU,
1993) executed by AMEXTIPE. Additional financing is expected to come from the Caisse
francaise de developpement and possibly the AfDB, under arrangements still to be worked out.
3.41       Implementation Arrangements.  Responsibility for managing the construction
program, including site supervision and quality control, and the procurement of equipment and
furniture will be delegated to AMEXTIPE, under contract to the MEN, following procedures
acceptable to IDA. Lists of equipment and furniture would be prepared by the Direction de
l'Enseignement Secondaire (DES), assisted by the DPE. Technical specifications for the
coWllges are at Annex 5.



18
(b) Improving Instruction in Core Subjects (US$2.3 million)
3.42       Scope and Objectives. The objective of this component is to improve instruction
in mathematics, science and second language (French or Arabic) in secondary schools by
continuing the support provided under the ongoing education project and complementing the
assistance provided by the Coopgration francaise. At the college level, the proposed project
would provide textbooks for all grades in these three core subjects; for the lycees, the project
would provide textbooks, science teaching materials and teacher training in the use of these
materials, the construction and/or renovation of libraries in 20 existing schools, and the
provision of library books.
3.43       Background. The ongoing education project (Cr. 1943-MAU) supports a program
of improvements to science teaching (financed by the AfDB), including the provision of
science books and laboratory kits to about 40 collMges and lycees, and a pilot science
laboratory program consisting of the construction of three science blocks (each containing a
physics laboratory and a chemistry/natural science laboratory) to test conditions under which
such laboratories could be provided to all lyckes in the future. The laboratories, however,
have not yet been constructed.
3.44       The Cooperation francaise (CF) supports a program  of improvements to
mathematics and second language teaching. Under its PARSEM (1991-1994) program, the CF
has supported program revision and in-service teacher training for mathematics and second
language (French or Arabic) teachers.  The results in mathematics, the longest running
program, are good. A study of student achievement in 1992 shows higher results among
students whose teachers have participated in the program. The CF intends to continue this
support under a follow-up PARSEM (1995-1998).
3.45      Project Support. The proposed project would strengthen and complement these
programs by financing: (i) the procurement of 235,000 textbooks (a set of five books,
including languages [3 books], mathematics and science) and 7,000 teachers' guides in the
same subjects for college students, and 123,000 textbooks and 9,500 teachers' guides for lycke
students in the same subjects, for a total cost estimated at US$1.2 million; (ii) science kits to
the remaining 30 lyckes not financed under the ongoing education project and to teacher
training colleges for the training of science teachers in their use, spare parts and a four-year
supply of consumables for 70 kits (financed on a declining basis); (iii) training of about 400
secondary science teachers in the use of the kits; (iv) an evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of
science teaching by demonstration using laboratory kits in standard classrooms vis-a-vis
science teaching conducted in fully-equipped science laboratories; and (v) the construction
and/or renovation of 20 school libraries and the provision of an initial book stock. As a
condition of negotiations, the Government submitted an implementation schedule for upgrading
the secondary science teachers.



19
3. Improve the Quality and Management of Higher Education (US$1.8 million)
3.46       Scope and Objectives.  The objectives of this component are to improve the
quality and relevance of teaching at the University of Nouakchott in the short run and prepare
a master plan for higher education to guide the system's development. The project would
support the short-term objective by strengthening institutional and management functions at the
University of Nouakchott (UN) and improving some existing physical infrastructure. The
long-term objective would be supported through pre-investment studies leading to a future
higher education reform project. A parallel program proposed by the CF would support these
objectives by focusing on staff development and qualitative improvements.
3.47       Background. To supervise the preparation and implementation of the short-term
improvement program at the University and manage the preparation of the long-term
restructuring plan, a coordinating body (Cellule de Pilotage) has been set up and staffed within
the University of Nouakchott. This cellule has prepared detailed proposals for infrastructure
improvements which were reviewed during appraisal. The cellule has also prepared a first
draft of terms of reference for the diagnostic studies to be carried out in preparation for the
restructuring plan. The plan would include, inter alia, proposals for a juridical framework and
draft enabling legislation, organizational and administrative restructuring of the higher
education system, policies to contain costs and control student flows, the renovation of
academic programs, structural relationships between the different higher education institutions,
and the disposition of and requirements for academic infrastructure. Commitment to this
program is high, as Government is fully aware of the increasing demand for access to higher
education and the need to constrain an uncontrolled expansion of the system.
3.48       Project Support. The project would finance at the University of Nouakchott: (i)
construction and/or rehabilitation and furnishing of some academic and administrative facilities
of the faculty of arts and science; (ii) rehabilitation and equipping of the administrative offices
of the rectorat; (iii) training of administrative staff and library personnel, and staff responsible
for developing the proposed university restructuring plan; and (iv) the preparation of a long-
term development plan for higher education. The project would support the Cellule de
Pilotage by financing office equipment and supplies, foreign and local consultant services to
help develop the restructuring plan, study tours to universities overseas, and related study
costs. Civil works are estimated at US$0.5 million. The cost of preparing the restructuring
plan is estimated at US$0.5 million. Details are at Annex 5.
3.49       Responsibility for implementation. Responsibility for managing the construction
and rehabilitation program of the university would be delegated by the MEN to AMEXTIPE,
under its management contract for project-financed civil works (para 4.7). The Cellule de
Pilotage would be responsible for preparing the higher education restructuring plan. At
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it would transmit to IDA for comment
and approval a draft program for the preparation of the restructuring plan, including terms of
reference for background studies and requirements in technical assistance.



20
4. Promote private-sector provision of education (US$0.3 million)
3.50       Scope and Objectives.  This component supports the Govermnent's policy of
increasing private-sector provision of education to 10% of total enrollment by the year 2000 by
modifying the legal framework governing the operation of private schools, providing private
schools with exoneration from customs duties on imports of educational equipment and
materials, and retroceding public schools to the private sector.  The project would also
facilitate access to pre-service and in-service training for teachers employed by the private
school system, and establish an office in the MEN to look after private school matters..
3.51       Background. Authorization to establish private schools was granted in 1981 to
help relieve increasing pressure on the public education system. Enabling legislation passed in
1982 defined the rules under which private schools could operate, requiring them, inter alia, to
comply with the pedagogical requirements, responsibilities and methods applicable to public
schools and allowing them to collect fees to offset operating costs. In 1983, some private
schools were opened, first in Nouakchott and later in other urban centers, and by 1994 the
private school network had grown to about 35 schools (25 in Nouakchott). Private school
enrollments are 3,300 in primary and 2,300 in secondary schools, representing 1.4% and
5.4%, respectively, of 1993/94 national enrollments.  An association of private schools
(Association des Ecoles Privees - ASSEP) was established in 1986 to represent the interests of
private school operators.
3.52       The growth of private education is constrained by (i) legal and fiscal regulations
that limit access to affordable funding for school construction and does not allow for
exoneration of customs duties for imported educational materials; and (ii) inadequate access to
MEN-operated teacher training and upgrading programs and pedagogical support services.
Project support would help remove these barriers.
3.53       Project Support.  Under the project, the Government would facilitate the
expansion of private schools by (i) modifying the existing legal framework to enable private
schools to have access to public land, obtain exoneration from customs duties on imported
educational materials and supplies, and permit the retroceding of public schools to the private
sector; (ii) provide access to Government-run pre-service and in-service training for teachers
employed by the private school system; and (iii) establish an office in the MEN to look after
private school matters. The project would finance the construction and equipping of a small
pedagogical center run by the ASSEP to provide in-service support to private teachers (Annex
,), and office equipment and a vehicle for the private-sector office in the MEN. Prior to
negotiations, the Government nominated an advisor to head the office.
5. Strengthen Sector Planning, Management and Resource Use (US$6.9 million)
3.54       This component supports the Government's objectives of reinforcing the Ministry
of Education's capacity to rationally plan and manage its programs, staff and resources,
promoting the provision of private-sector education, and ensuring competent project
management and coordination.



21
(a) Strengthening Education Planning and Management (US$3.8 million)
3.55      Scope and Objectives.  The objective of this component is to strengthen the
Ministry of Education's planning and management capacities by (a) improving personnel
management and removing excess staff; (b) conducting an audit of the MEN's structure and
operations, and preparing and implementing a reorganization program; and (c) supporting the
decentralization of education management, and strengthening the MEN directorates responsible
for educational planning, program management, research and evaluation.
3.56      Background. The ongoing education project (Cr. 1943-MAU) has financed: (i)
the construction of six and the rehabilitation of two regional education offices (DREFs); (ii)
staff training, technical assistance and logistic support for the directorate of education planning
and cooperation (DPC) to improve the availability and reliability of statistics, and prepare a
school map and school maintenance guides; (iii) technical assistance to the directorate of
personnel (DP) to computerize MEN staff records; and (iv) training of researchers in order to
establish a research unit at the National Pedagogical Institute (IPN) to address issues of
education quality and school effectiveness. Through the PARSEM program, the Cooperation
francaise has provided technical assistance and operational support to the directorate of
secondary education (DES) to improve staff management.
3.57       Some progress has been made in improving planning and management under the
ongoing project, but most departments still have insufficient capacity and lack competent staff
to competently carry out their work. For example, collecting and interpreting education
statistics and preparing a school map still require the support of technical assistance.
Personnel recruitment, deployment and management is poorly coordinated, records are often
incomplete and out of date, and mostly manually kept. A significant number of staff (about
1,500 out of 8,000) paid by the MEN's budget do not work for the ministry (ditachis).
Communication between directorates is ineffective and the planning and coordination functions
are therefore jeopardized. As for educational research and evaluation, the IPN researchers
trained under the ongoing project have no particular statute, an inadequate work program and
little equipment to work with, evidence of poor management of resources.
3.58      The proposed project would address these problems in three ways: first, it would
help computerize personnel records, identify staff paid for but not working for the MEN,
develop a plan to remove excess staff from the MEN payroll and implement the plan; second,
it would conduct an audit of the MENs structure, functions, processes, staffing and budgeting,
and prepare and implement a reorganization plan designed to improve the ministry's
operations; and third, it would provide technical assistance, staff training and logistic support
for the MEN directorates of planning (DPC) and personnel (DP), and to the IPN, started under
the ongoing project, and extend this support to other directorates as needed.
3.59      Improving Personnel Manaeement. Significantly better persomel management is
essential to achieve sector development objectives within budgetary limits. To improve its
personnel records, make informed decisions on staff deployment, and determine with some
precision the MEN's budget requirements in terms of personnel, under the ongoing project the



22
MEN is conducting an inventory of staff paid by and working for by the ministry and has
started to computerize the data. As a condition of negotiations, the Government submitted the
results of a comparative analysis of MEN staff lists and Ministry of Finance payroll data and
has requested the Ministry of Finance to stop salary payments for about 175 persons not
working for the MEN. As a condition of credit effectiveness, the Government would submit a
draft action plan and timetable, acceptable to IDA, to finalize the personnel inventory and
discontinue salary payments to those not working for the MEN.
3.60       To help develop a plan to improve the operation of the MEN, the Government
would conduct a technical audit of the MEN's structure, functions, processes, staffing and
budgeting within the first year of project implementation and immediately following the 1995
public expenditure review (PER). The audit would lead to the development of an action plan
including, in particular, measures to strengthen MEN's capacities in resource management,
curriculum development, in service teacher training, and project management and coordination.
The plan would be discussed and agreed upon with IDA and implemented during fiscal year
1996, and in coordination with the proposed Economic Management Project (planned for
FY96).
3.61       Project Support.   The project would support the ongoing program  of
decentralization of education management functions to the regional and departmental levels by
financing the construction and equipment of offices for 7 regional inspectorates (DREFs) and
10 departmental inspectorates (IDEFs).  To improve the Ministry's capacity to manage,
implement and coordinate its programs and staff, the project would finance equipment and
logistic support to the directorates of primary education (DEF), secondary education (DES),
personnel (DP), planning (DPC), and the pedagogical institute (IPN). The project would also
finance specialist services to assist in the computerization of education statistics and the
training of DPC counterpart staff, and local seminars for education inspectors on data
collection and verification. For the research unit in the IPN, the project would support a
program of studies to evaluate student achievement in primary school, gender bias in textbooks
(para. 3.24), and the introduction of revised teaching programs (para. 3.28) by financing the
equivalent of 28 months of specialist services to be provided through a twinning arrangement
with an institution recognized for its expertise in the evaluation of student achievement.
Finally, the project would finance an audit of the MEN's structure, functions, staffing and
financing, to be conducted by an independent external auditor acceptable to IDA.
(b) Supporting project management and coordination (US$3.1 million)
3.62       Scope and Objectives. This component would support the directorate of education
and training projects (Direction des Projets Education et Formation, DPE) of the Ministry of
Plan, responsible for the coordination and financial management of education and training
projects.
3.63       Background. The DPE, established in 1978 as a Directorate of the Ministry of
Plan to coordinate the implementation of all donor-financed education and training projects,
provides professional and logistic support to the ministries responsible for implementing these
projects. Ongoing operations include two IDA-financed projects: the Education Sector



23
Support Project (Cr. 2521-MAU), and several bilateral operations financed by the Cooperation
francaise, the Caisse de developpement franSaise, the AfDB, and the Tunisian TA fund
(ACTC). The DPE also coordinates the construction of health facilities financed under the
ongoing Health and Population Project (Cr. 231-MAU). The DPE functions smoothly and is
adequately staffed for its current workload.
3.64       To take on the additional workload of the proposed project, the DPE would be
strengthened by three professional staff: a project coordinator (chef de projet) responsible for
this project, an implementation specialist/construction coordinator (to replace a long-term TA
staff) and an accountant. The existing director and the administrative officer of the DPE,
currently financed under Credit 1943-MAU, would remain in post under financing from the
proposed project. The three new staff would be on local contract, recruited on a competitive
basis under terms of reference and conditions of service satisfactory to IDA, and appointed
subject to IDA's approval. Terms of reference for the DPE, the project coordinator and the
implementation specialist/construction coordinator are in Annex 9. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that the DPE will be staffed at all times as described above and
that any proposed changes in DPE staffing and responsibilities would be submitted to IDA for
approval. As a condition of negotiations, the project coordinator, architect and accountant, all
with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA, were recruited.
3.65       Project Support. The project would finance: (i) the rehabilitation of DPE offices
and the provision of furniture, equipment and vehicles; (ii) the salaries of the five senior DPE
staff mentioned above, for the duration of the project; (iii) 22 months of consultant services
including a financial auditor and technical backstopping to the construction coordinator; (iv) 20
months of training in procurement and disbursement for DPE staff; and (v) operating costs for
the DPE including office equipment, consumables and maintenance. Local staff costs,
estimated at US$0.4 million over the life of the project, would be financed by Government.
B.    Project Cost and Financing Plan
3.66       Project Cost. Total project cost is estimated at US$42.6 million, with a base cost
of US$38.6 million and a foreign exchange component of US$26.9 million.  Price
contingencies, estimated at US$3.0 million, assume an annual inflation rate of 3.5% local and
2.5% foreign. Physical contingencies are estimated at US$1.0 million (2% of base costs).
With the exception of primary classroom construction, project costs exclude all local taxes and
import duties. The IDA credit would finance 82% of total project costs (US$35.0 million);
Government and communities would finance 8% and 10.0% respectively (US$3.3 million and
US$4.3 million equivalent). Detailed cost estimates are given in Annex 11. There would be
no cofinancing for this operation.
3.67       Recurrent Cost Implications. Incremental recurrent costs generated by the project
concern three major components: (i) teachers' salaries due to system expansion, estimated at
US$4.3 million over the five-year project implementation period, to be financed by the
Government; (ii) operating costs of project supported institutions (US$1.2 million); and (iii)
costs associated with project management and coordination (US$ 1.1 million), the latter two
categories to be financed by the IDA credit. The Government's contribution of US$4.3 million



24
categories to be financed by the IDA credit. The Government's contribution of US$4.3 million
equivalent would be financed from within the education budget, and is considered manageable
provided that efficiency measures, and budgetary and personnel targets, are implemented as
agreed (Annex 3). Under these conditions, the budgetary impact of the sector development
program is considered manageable, as the overall education budget would increase by about
10% per year, or from 21% to 24% of the national budget (assuming a continuation of past
growth in the national budget). Within the education budget, primary education's share would
increase from 38% to 51 %, secondary education's share would remain fairly constant at about
29%, and the share of higher education would decrease from about 30% to 20 %.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation and Readiness
4.1       Project preparation was carried out by Ministry of Education staff, under the
guidance of a project preparation committee (PPC) composed of representatives of the various
units directly associated with the project. The work of the PPC was financially supported by
the ongoing education project and by an advance from the project preparation facility (PPF).
During preparation, close contacts were maintained with other donors, in particular the
Coopdration franCaise whose support for the education sector under the ongoing PARSEM
project was taken into account in the design of the proposed project. The Government's
commitment to the project is significant, as evidenced by the quality of the work produced by
the PPC, the results of several seminars in which senior MEN staff evaluated the impact of the
policy measures introduced under the project and developed an action program and
performance indicators, and by the detailed working papers that were prepared for all project
components. The DPE coordinated the preparation of a procurement program, draft contracts
and standard bid documents for major procurement actions.
B. Project Coordination and Management
4.2       Day-to-day management and implementation of the project will be carried out by
the respective units in the Ministry of Education, with the DPE playing a coordinating role
(para 4.3). Within the MEN, the Directorates of Primary Education (DEF), Secondary
Education (DES), Higher Education (DES), Planning and Coordination (DPC), and the IPN
would be responsible for implementing the components falling under their respective
jurisdictions.  The DPC would also be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the
implementation of sectoral policies.  Responsibility for managing the primary classroom
construction program would be delegated by the MEN to the DPE, following procedures
established under the ongoing project. Management of the remaining civil works program and
related furniture and equipment needs would be delegated to AMEXTIPE, under contract to
the MEN, following a procedural manual acceptable to IDA.
4.3       Coordination of project activities, administrative, procurement and financial
matters, contacts with IDA and inter-agency coordination would be provided by the DPE.
Specifically, the DPE would: (i) coordinate the preparation of annual work programs and
budgets for all components; (ii) procure goods and services, and recruit consultants, with the



25
exception of procurement related to civil works managed by AMEXTIPE; (iii) maintain and
consolidate all project accounts including special accounts (SAs); (iv) prepare the necessary
documentation for withdrawal of proceeds from the Credit account; (v) arrange for audits of
project accounts and SOEs, as required; (vi) prepare and submit progress reports to IDA, as
required; (vii) organize annual and mid-term reviews of project implementation; and (viii)
liaise with co-financiers and maintain an effective dialogue with agencies and donors active in
the education sector in Mauritania. Terms of reference for the DPE are at Annex 9.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.4        Monitoring and evaluation of project performance and outcomes would be carried
out by the implementing units over the life of the project. Key monitoring indicators are
shown in Annex 3. The DPE would organize joint IDA-Government reviews: (i) during the
fourth quarter of each year to review progress reports and expenditure statements of the current
year, and work programs and budgets for the following year; and (ii) not later than November
1997, a mid-term review of project implementation, the results of which will be incorporated
in an action plan, acceptable to IDA, for further implementation of the project. Details of the
Bank's supervision and review plans are at Annex 10. The Government gave assurances that it
would submit an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) in accordance with applicable
guidelines for the preparation of completion reports within four months of project completion.
D. Procurement and Disbursement
4.5        Table 1 summarizes project costs by disbursement category and procurement
method. With the exception of primary classroom construction, costs exclude all local taxes
and import duties as donor financed projects are exempt from all taxes by law (Ordonnance
80.323 of December 19, 1980) and by decision of the Conseil des Ministres for each project.
Mauritania's procurement laws and regulations also conform to IDA procurement guidelines.
No special exemptions, permits or licenses need to be specified in credit documents for
international competitive bidding (ICB); Mauritania's procurement regulations allow IDA
procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations.
4.6        Civil Works. The civil works program financed by the IDA credit (US$17.7
million, net of taxes and duties and including contingencies) includes (i) 1,430 classrooms and
related facilities (storage, office, enclosure); (ii) latrines and water supply in 200 schools; (iii)
20 lower-secondary schools; (iv) 7 regional education offices (DREFs) and 10 departmental
inspectorates (IDEFs); (v) the rehabilitation of the ENI in Nouakchott (including the
examinations center), (vi) a small pedagogical center for private school teachers; and (vii)
university facilities. For the construction of primary classrooms and related facilities, the IDA
credit would finance US$7.7 million, representing 70% of the estimated construction costs in
the form of grants to communities which would contribute the equivalent of 30% in cash or in-
kind. Payments of grants would be done on a tranche basis, provided works have been
delivered in accordance with quantity and quality agreed upon and certified by the regional
construction teams. Communities would use commercial practices by seeking at least two
quotations from reliable contractors and suppliers. Each contract will not exceed US$10,000.
For all other civil works, the IDA credit would finance 100% of the cost of civil works.



26
Table 1: Procurement Arrangements
Project Element                                                  Procurement Method
ICB        LCB       Other       Total
1. CIVIL WORKS
Primary classroom construction                               -           -         11.0       11.0
(7.7)     (7.7)
Other                                                       0.9a       6.1 b        _          7.0
(0.9)     (6.1)                  (7.0)
2. GOODS
Furniture                                                    1.0        1.6c        -          2.6
(1.0)     (1.6)                  (2.6)
Equipment, Vehicles and Supplies                             3.1        --         0.2         3.3
(3.1)                 (0.2)      (3.3)
Books and Book Distribution                                  4.1        0.2d        -          4.3
(4.1)     (0.2)                  (4.3)
3.SPECIALIST SERVICES
Local                                                                   --         1.7         1.7
(1.7)     (1.7)
International                                                -           --        1.8         1.8
(1.8)     (1.8)
Architects, Engineers, Supervision                           --         --         0.9         0.9
(0.9)     (0.9)
4. TRAINING
Local Training                                               --         --         1.5         1.5
(1.5)     (1.5)
Foreign Training                                             -           -         0.6        0.6
(0.6)     (0.6)
5. PILOT OPERATIONS                                          --         --         0.5e        0.5
(0.5)     (0.5)
6. INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS                               -           --
Operating Costs                                                                    2.3         2.3
(2.3)     (2.3)
Teachers' Salaries                                                                 4.3         4.3
(-)        (-)
7. PPF REFUND                                                -           -         0.8         0.8
(0.8)     (0.8)
TOTAL                                                        9.1        7.9        25.6       42.6
TOTAL IDA                                                   (9.1)      (7.9)      (18.0)     (35.0)
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding. Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by the IDA credit.
a     University civil works.
b     Secondary, DREF, DPE, ENI, Centre pedagogique, water connections and latrines for primary schools.
c     Primary and secondary school furniure
d     Book distribution
e     Comprised of small expenditures on various inputs into school-based programs such as books and school supplies.
Expenditures will be accounted for by SOEs.



27
4.7       In accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD and IDA
Credits (May 1992), civil works for higher education (about US$0.9 million) would be
procured through ICB. The remaining civil works packages totaling US$6.1 million would not
be appropriate for ICB procedures. Due to their small size (less that US$0.25 million each),
geographic spread, and high transportation costs, they are unlikely to attract foreign firms and
will be awarded following competitive bidding advertised locally. Local contractors have
adequate capacity and are able to construct at reasonable prices. However, foreign bidders
would not be precluded from submitting bids. Civil works contracts for secondary and higher
education would be managed and awarded by AMEXTIPE according to procedures approved
by IDA. AMEXTIPE would maintain a roster of pre-qualified contractors eligible for LCB,
would permit additional applications at any time and would not preclude large or foreign firms
from participating. Standard bidding documents will propose a reference price and indicate
unit prices and quantities. Contractors would be invited to bid by way of discounts either on
the total or on the unit prices. Contracts would be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid based
on criteria specified in the bidding documents. The contract award committee would open bids
in public and have full authority to contract. It would justify, however, in writing and prior to
signing the contract and with reference to the bidding documents' criteria, any decision not to
select the lowest evaluated bid. For contracts with fewer than five bidders, or contracts greater
than or equal to US$250,000 equivalent, the award committee would request IDA approval
prior to signing the contract. As a condition of negotiations, the Government submitted a
management contract for civil works (excluding primary classroom construction) with
AMEXTIPE.
4.8        Goods. Goods financed by the IDA Credit (US$10.0 million) include furniture,
equipment, office supplies, vehicles, textbooks and library books. Goods would be grouped
into packages of at least US$150,000 each and procured through ICB in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1992). A
preferential margin of 15% or the applicable customs duty, whichever is less, over the c.i.f.
prices of competing goods for all ICB procurement would be given to domestic firms in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Because foreign bidders are unlikely to be interested in
bidding on the limited quantities of school furniture, and local firms can produce at competitive
prices, furniture as well as goods that cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$150,000
each would be procured through LCB provided that the aggregate amount of such procurement
does not exceed US$1.7 million equivalent. Small quantities of office supplies, consumable
materials and spare parts, as well as small expenditures under pilot operations and incremental
operating costs which are available off-the-shelf and cannot be grouped into bid packages of at
least US$50,000 may be procured through international or local prudent shopping, based on
price quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers, provided that the aggregate
amount of such procurement does not exceed US$700,000 equivalent. All bids would be
submitted on a c.i.f. basis for imported goods and on an ex-factory basis for locally
manufactured goods. Draft standard bidding documents for ICB and LCB have been prepared.
4.9        Consultant services. Specialist services financed by the project (US$5.5 million)
would be contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
(August 1992). Services to be contracted include technical assistance, training, architectural



28
services, and technical and financial auditing.  AMEXTIPE's construction management
services (not to exceed US$1.0 million equivalent) would be procured through a sole-source
contract because contracts with foreign firms would be more expensive and there are no other
local firms with similar contract management expertise.
4.10      Review by IDA. IDA-financed contracts for works and goods above a threshold
value of US$250,000 equivalent for works and US$150,000 equivalent for goods would be
subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The review process would cover about 75 % of the
total value of the amount contracted for goods and 60 % of the amount contracted for civil
works. Selective post-review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels would apply to
about one in three contracts. Prior IDA review would not apply to consultant contracts
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 and US$100,000 equivalent for individuals and firms
respectively. However, the exception to prior IDA review would not apply to the terms of
reference of such contracts, to single-source hiring of firms and individuals, to assignments of
a critical nature as determined by IDA, and to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value to US$50,000 and US$100,000 or more for individuals and firms respectively. Details
of the review thresholds are given in Annex 12.
4.11       Procurement Status of Ongoing Projects and Proposed Arrangements. Although
disbursements under the ongoing project are on schedule, construction work by local
contractors is being delayed by cumbersome administrative procedures, such as obtaining
import licenses from customs authorities and foreign currency from the Central Bank to
purchase imported goods. The Government would take the necessary measures to ensure that:
(a) procurement phases do not exceed the time periods in Table 2 below; and (b) customs
formalities for importing goods and services under the project are within one month of the date
of application. For ICB, the Government will use the Bank's standard bidding documents for
goods and for civil works, allowing any local or foreign contractor to indicate the percentage
of the bid price required to be paid in foreign currency.
Table 2
Maximum period of time in weeks
LCB             ICB
Preparing Bidding Documents                     8-16             8-16
Reviewing Bidding Documents                      2-3              2-3
Revising Bidding Documents                       1-2              1-2
Preparing Bids                                   4-6              6-8
Bid evaluation                                   1-2              1-2
Proposed contract award                          1-2              1-2
Review of contract award decision by IDA          -               1-2
Contract preparation                             1-2              1-2
Review of contract by IDA                         -               1-2
Contract signature                               2-4              2-4
20-37           24-43



29
4.12      Disbursements. The project is expected to be completed over a five-year period,
with the IDA Credit disbursed over six years, according to the categories shown in Table 3.
The estimated disbursement profile is shown in Annex 13. Disbursement of the Credit would
be fully documented except for expenditures valued at less than US$150,000 equivalent which
would be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation for withdrawals
under SOEs would be retained by the DPE for review by IDA supervision missions and for
semi-annual audits.
Table 3
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Category of Expenditure              Proposed IDA Allocation   % of Expenditures
(US$ million)      Financed by IDA
1. a. Civil Works (primary classrooms)        6.9                   70
b. Civil Works (excluding a.)               6.6                   100
2. Furniture                                   2.3                  100
3. Equipment, vehicles & supplies              2.9                  100
4. Textbooks & teachers' guides                3.6                  100
5. Consultant services                         5.0                  100
6. Training                                    0.8                  100
7. Pilot operations                            0.5                  100
8. Incremental Operating Costs                 2.0                  100
9. PPF Refund                                  0.8                  N/A
10. Unallocated                                3.6
TOTAL                           35.0
Note: With the exception Category 1 a., costs exclude all local taxes and import duties.
E. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
4.13      To facilitate disbursements, the Government would open a Special Project
Account (SPA) in a commercial bank in Nouakchott for IDA's share of eligible expenditures
managed by the DPE. The authorized allocation would be US$2,000,000 equivalent. IDA
would make an initial deposit of US$700,000 equivalent upon credit effectiveness and would
replenish the SPA upon receipt of satisfactory proof of incurred eligible expenditures. The
SPA will, at all times, be maintained and operated on terms acceptable to IDA and will be
replenished each month accompanied by appropriate bank statements and reconciliations. The
small school improvement program targeted at girls would use a Fonds d'Appui aux Filles
(FAF) which would be operated by the DPE.
4.14      The DPE would be responsible for the project's financial management and would
maintain consolidated project accounts following the system set up under the ongoing education
project (Cr. 1943-MAU). Audits of project accounts, of scope and detail acceptable to IDA,
would be done annually by independent auditors, acceptable to IDA, and the reports would be
submitted within six months of the end of each fiscal year. Disbursements under the SOEs
would be audited semi-annually. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that (i)



30
annual audit reports, of reasonable scope and detail, will be submitted to IDA within six
months of the end of the Government's fiscal year, and, in the case of SOEs, semi-annual
reports will be submitted within six months after the end of each audit period; and (ii) an
independent auditor would be appointed under a multi-year contract, acceptable to IDA.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1        Benefits.  Project benefits would be widespread. Over the five-year period
1994/95-1999/2000, through classroom construction and efficiency measures, the project
would provide about 64,000 additional student places mostly in underserved peri-urban areas
of Nouakchott, and in six regions where access to primary education is lowest, raising their
enrollment ratios from between 60%-70% to an estimated 80%-90% and the national
enrollment ratio from 77% to nearly 90%. Mutually reinforcing qualitative improvements, in
the form of better trained teachers, an adequate supply of textbooks and improved school
management would improve learning and reduce repetition and drop-out. The project would
introduce or continue to support several innovative measures, with potentially significant
returns, such as: (i) programs to boost girls' primary school enrollment from 44% to 50% of
the total, and corresponding increases in secondary education and teacher training; (ii)
delegation of pedagogical support from the central ministry to regional and departmental levels
to make the system more responsive to local needs; and (iii) improvements in environmental
and health education. Local communities would be required to participate financially in
primary school construction and maintenance, reducing the burden on the Government budget
and increasing ownership and sustainability.
5.2        Risks.   There are three main risks.  First, the Government's capacity to
manage a program of the scope envisaged under the project is not assured. For the civil works
components, this risk would be addressed by transferring responsibility for implementing
construction from the ministry to AMEXTIPE and communities, and limiting the
Government's role to oversight and quality control. Second, the innovative programs proposed
under the project, in particular those to boost girls' participation, strengthening
decentralization, and in-service teacher training, are risky and may not fully reach their
objectives. Risks in these areas would be addressed by careful monitoring and annual reviews
of progress, with the expectation that these programs may need to be modified during
implementation. Third, institutional and management capacities may take longer than five
years to improve. Recognizing this risk, the proposed project would continue the process of
capacity building begun under the on-going education project (Cr. 1943-MAU) with the
expectation that additional support may need to be provided under future projects.
5.3        No environmental risks are foreseen. Classrooms and related structures would be
located on small, vacant Government or community property, and constructed following
procedures and design standards approved by the Bank under the ongoing education project.



31
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1        During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would:
(a)   transmit to IDA for comment and approval a draft program  for the
preparation of a restructuring plan for higher education, including terms of
reference for background studies and requirements in technical assistance
(para 3.49);
(b)   conduct a technical audit of the MEN's structure, function, processes,
staffing and budgeting within the first year of project implementation,
which would propose a plan, satisfactory to IDA, to be implemented in FY
1996, including, in particular, measures to strengthen MEN's capacities in
resource management, curriculum development, in service teacher training,
and project management and coordination (para. 3.60).
(c)    maintain the DPE with adequate professional and support staff, under
terms of reference acceptable to IDA, and including a director,
administrator, project coordinator, architect/implementation specialist and
accountant, and obtain prior IDA approval for any changes in DPE staffing
and responsibilities (para. 3.64);
(d)   submit to IDA an implementation completion report within four months of
completing the project (para. 4.4); and
(e)    appoint an independent auditor under a multi-year contract, acceptable to
IDA (para. 4.14).
6.2        As conditions of credit effectiveness, the Government would submit:
(a)   signed contracts for the regional construction coordinators, acceptable to
IDA (para. 3.16); and
(b)    a draft action plan and timetable, acceptable to IDA, to finalize the
personnel inventory and clean up the salary budget (para. 3.59).
RECOMMENDATION: Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project would
be suitable for an IDA credit of US$35.0 million equivalent on IDA standard terms.



32
Annex 1
Page 1 of 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(EDUCATION V)
Basic Indicators, 1993
GeDeral                                   Maritanla                      Africa /1
GNP per capita (USS)                         510                              635
Total population (million)                   2.03                             530
Percent urban                             50                              28
Population growth rate                    2.8                              2.9
Adult literacy rate (total)                   34                              49
Adult literacy rate (female)                  21                              38
Total fertility rate                          6.8                             6.5
Under five mortality                          119                             169
Life expectancy at birth (years)              47                              52
Primary gross enrollment ratio (total)        64                              79
Primary gross enrollment ratio (girls)        58                              72
ll Unweighted means. Sources:  UNESCO Yearbook (1993), World Development Report (1993)
Education                                                      %         Gross Enrollment   Pupil/teacher
Enrollment        Female             Ratio           Ratio
Primary                                     247,000            44               71               51
Total secondary                             44,100                              12               22
- Lower secondary                       23,800             33               59               24
- Upper secondary                       19,100             45               40               20
- Technical secondary                    1,200             17               3                 8
Teacher traimng                               800              33
Higher education a/                         10,040
- University of Nouakchott b/            7,527             15
- Overseas fellowships                   2,513              5
Total                                       325,740
a/ 1992/93 figure. b/ Includes ENS and ISS.
Budget         Education       Per student      expenditure
Education Budget                         (UM millions)     Budget (%)        UM '000           USS
Total                                       4,424              100            13,580            109
Primary                                      1,687             38             6,831              55
Secondary                                   1,668              38             37,822            303
Higher education                              780               18            77,709            622
Services g6n6raux                            288                7                885              7
/a Other includes central services, professional training, and unallocated by level.



33
Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(EDUCATION V)
Flow Chart of the Education System
REPUSLIQUE ISLAMIGuE DE LA KULITAVIE
STRUCTURE DU SYSTENE EDUCATIF
AOWWMT                        SEtONDAE         SECONAINE                    FISI N     g 
~ESAIL                         (lES CCI)         (20 CtCLE) 
2    3    4    s    6  1    2    3  4    5    61                             N~~~~AITtlSE      En
CDLEGE               LTCEE         
ElF
miauin                                                                 TiP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TMIMI~  IT SIflU
CTP:           CoI Ihg TcchnII  Prof..sIwis                                          LIP:   Cawtlflc t d*EWms Primir,
LTP:           lte. Te lhnIW ProfrlenIvwm                                           *EKs  Srswt  dEm.I_tiI Prnlm CTI$e
Elil:          Ecele llesle dm Ir tttut.r                                            ACsn   Ia.Ii4t
CSET           C e tre S4pfrlI   d'Erlumlpnt  Tedvrnlqs                             UP.   hint   d EmfIwin.  Pref1elmnE
FLSII:         FmcuItX dc Lettree *t dc   cla~   mineel                             UTs    lit   dc Tleilcu
FCTP:          Fecult de brelt et dr ScIl e cu lm                                   ITSs   ire_et dc Tledl riire
ISs:           Irstitut    iriew Sclenttflqs                                        DI/A:   lipl6d  dlIrmtituteu/Ad|Jlnt
EN:S           Ecoee Iormte Supriuw                                                PMT:   Prefeesew dflnel_mmnt Tedlnlq



34
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
REPuFJIWLE ISaANIICUE DE LA IMMITAI4E
ORCGAMGIGAIE DE L ADMNiISTAIIIN
CEIITAtE DE LtEDUCATIOA
DIinEctIS               DAEA5
PersouauL            ittit.             ueip.-              Erne ig.-                 VW,ts           Affair..
tntr.tIum   Socarviire.       ti
Central ~         Iee*tiCdrl
Frsmt                 Cotru            Affairee             Aff8ireS
1 1         >CE:                   Ap       {.          I   _nt                Seotxiree         Seothi             sc eeree              Etudeoerie  Drntation
Lo n                     1                  CoOqGr                                                     Exll_
{C      EntrDtlr            Ad inistr. ii          tlun Ei.wt is                           El C tEtudo
5SF:   Direction i                        LO nsntr,inst FLO entLO
DAE:          Dlrectlon di  IAdinistratii n et d e. c nn f
DP'.         Drectlen di ftrona
.PC:         Direction 4b to Flanification.-t drt la C r wtl n
DEF"          DIr ctIan do "mt En  i n   For"ass'"Ia
Des:          D4 rction de L'Enw: wsnt   ndro
DET:          Direction de t'Eno w nt Tchfiqnl
DESup:        Direction de t'Er     elIt  p6rliuw
Eli:          Ecol. Sout. diln titut.w
DIEF:         Direction    lrwittle dI IEn.Ierl wt Frontntat
EF:           Erneiwumnt FerW_ntL



35
Annex 3
Page 1 of 6
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(EDUCATION V)
Letter of Sector Policy
GENERAL FRAMEWORK
Government policy aims to strengthen the education system which places an emphasis on the
importance of cultural heritage, greater participation in social and economic affairs, and the
development of national expertise adapted to the needs of the country. Within this framework, the
priorities selected by levels of education are as follows:
Primary Education. The development of primary education remains the highest priority.
Specific interventions will be implemented to ensure the enrollment of all school-aged children by the
year 2000, redress regional and gender disparities, and improve resource use and internal efficiency.
Secondary Education. The development strategy for secondary education aims to increase
access to lower secondary education, contain enrollment growth at the upper level, improve the quality
of education at both levels, particularly in languages and in scientific disciplines, and reduce public
expenditure per student.
Higher Education will be restructured and its goals clearly defined with a view to controlling
costs, rationalizing the structure, improving education quality and relevance to labor market needs, and
strengthening teaching and scientific research.
Literacy and Indigenous Education will be strengthened in order to eliminate adult illiteracy
and reinforce children's cultural heritage.
Private Schools. The private sector will also be assisted to increase its contribution to the
development of the education system.
IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGIES
The development of the education system will continue to be constrained by limited
Government budgets. To release sufficient resources, education's share of the national budget will
increase progressively from 21 % in 1994 to 24% in the year 2000, and the effectiveness of personnel
management and resource use at all levels of the system will be improved. Specific strategies by level
of education are as follows:
For primary education:  (a) expand the on-going classroom construction program  which
involves community management and co-financing, (b) reduce unit costs by improving the utilization
of teachers and infrastructure, increasing the proportion of instituteurs-adjoints and reducing repetition
and drop-out, (c) improve curricula, (d) introduce in-service training for teachers and managers, (e)



36
Annex 3
Page 2 of 6
establish an effective and sustainable textbook system, and (f) improve personnel and physical resource
management;
For secondary education: (a) start up a targeted expansion program, (b) rationalize the use of
human and physical resources, (c) mobilize additional revenue, and (d) update curricula content and the
competencies of teachers;
For higher education: apply adjustment measures to stabilize admissions and student flows,
and develop a long term development plan; and
For the Drivate sector: create a supportive legal and financial environment to encourage the
expansion of private primary and secondary education.
ACTION PLAN
With respect to the framework and strategies above, the action plan retained by the
Government is conceived along the following lines:
Primary education: The development of primary education will aim to (a) increase enrollment
to attain universal primary schooling and reduce disparities across regions and between sexes, (b)
control costs, and (c) improve the quality and relevance of schooling.
(a)   Increasing access and reducing disparities.  The development plan for primary
education aims to increase enrollment from about 280.000 in 1994/95 to 440.000 in 1999/2000, to
increase the admission rate from 88% to over 100% and the gross enrollment ratio from 76% to
100%. To achieve this, the following actions are planned:
-     A construction program of about 2,600 classrooms and the replacement of 1,800
classrooms with community participation verified against school mapping criteria;
-     Recruitment and training of a corresponding number of additional teachers;
-     Improvements to school mapping to monitor reductions in disparities and rationalize
investments in infrastructure; and
-     Implementation of a program to increase the enrollment of girls in zones where they
lag behind significantly.
(b)    Cost control will be pursued systematically by  controlling spending and utilizing
existing resources more efficiently. To accomplish this, the following measures will be applied:
Maintain an average student:teacher ratio of 50:1 by extending multigrade teaching in
rural areas and double-shift teaching in urban areas; and



37
Annex 3
Page 3 of 6
-     Increase the proportion of instituteur-adjoints recruited from 50% in 1995/96 to 75%
by the year 2000, reduce repetition and drop out progressively to 3% and 2%, respectively, by the
introduction of quasi-automatic promotion, as well as improvements in the quality of education and in
relations between schools and communities.
(c) Ilproving the quality and relevance of education. Six measures are planned:
-     Modifications to school programs in basic disciplines (languages, math and sciences);
-     Modification of pre-service teacher training programs taking into account the revised
school curricula and increasing the share of training devoted to practice;
-     Establishing an in-service training system delivered at local levels;
-     Introducing continuing education and performance into criteria for teacher and
inspector promotions;
-     Ensuring the supply of books to students by associating teachers, parents and
communities in their conservation and management; and
-     Establishing a system to evaluate the level of student learning.
Scndary education:   The development of secondary education will target increasing
admissions into the first cycle, and improving resource use and the quality of education. The measures
planned are:
-     Increase the number of entrants into lower secondary from 8,250 in 1993/94 to 18,000
in 199/2000 and stabilize admission into upper secondary at 5,000;
-     Reduce disparities among regions and between boys and girls by constructing the
majority of new classrooms in towns in the interior of the country, and adopting a
policy of positive discrimination for girls;
-     Improve classroom use;
-     Redeploy excess teachers from the upper to the lower cycle, and increase the utilization
rate of teachers to 90%;
-     Reduce non-teaching personnel costs from 42% to 35% of the budget by reducing the
number of administrative posts;
-     Establish an effective textbook distribution system;



38
Annex 3
Page 4 of 6
-      Improve instructional programs in the first cycle as well as teacher training, focusing
on basic skills (languages, math and sciences); and
-      Equip upper secondary schools with science materials and libraries.
Higher education: The development of higher education will be based on:
The application of measures to control admission and student flow, improve the
internal efficiency and lower the costs of student services;
Updating the infrastructure and equipment of the University of Nouakchott,
particularly the library, laboratories and strengthening science teaching; and
Producing an overall plan for the development of higher education.
The Drivate sector: The provision of private education will be promoted by:
-      Introducing measures to facilitate access to credit;
Permitting private sector teachers access to training provided to public school teachers;
and
Adopting legal texts relating to the creation and operation of private schools.
Planning. monitoring and coordination will be supported to:
Develop management capacities by improving planning and coordination at the central
and decentralized levels; and
Strengthen personnel management capacities and improve the utilization of Ministry of
Education personnel in order to clean up the personnel rolls and budget.



39
Annex 3
Page 5 of 6
MONITORING INDICATORS
SECTORAL PROGRAM
19S4      I    1995496         199467        199746        1996499     1999.0      I
PRIMARY EDUCATION
1. Enrollment of 480,000 students, gross
enrollment ratio of 100%
(a) Construction of 2,700 classrooms                 523              529           488            373           185
(b) Replacement of 1.800 classrooms
(c) Training incremental teachers                                     696           662            545           345            115
Number of inslituleurs(25%)                      678             348            298           218            121            35
Number of inslideurs-adjoints (75%)                              348            364           327            224            81
(d) Admission in grade 1                            60978           64266          67760          71472         75419         79618
(e) Total enrollment                                279627          314656         350442        384835         413916        438570
(f) Gross enrollment ratio (%)                       76%             82%            88%           93%            97%           99%
2. Reduction in disparities girls/boys
(a) Girls' share of enrollment (%)                   45%             46%            48%           47%            47%           48%
(b) Gross enrollment ratio
Girls (%)                                       70%              77%            84%           90%           95%            99%
Boys (%)                                         81%             87%            92%           98%           98%            98%
(c) Dropout rate (%), girls (grade 1-5)              3%               3%             3%            4%            4%             4%
Drop out rate (%), boys (grade 1-5)              4%              4%             4%             4%            4%            4%
(d) Girls' support fund (number of schools)                           60             120           180           240            300
3. Control costs and rationalize resource use
(a) Multigrade classrooms
Number                                            379             497            648           840           1089          1447
% of rural classrooms
(b) Double-shift classrooms
Number                                            106             213            344            494           657           828
% of urban classrooms                                                                           30             30            30
(c) Student:teacher ratio                             51              52             53            55             57            61
4. Improve quality and internal efficiency
Improve quality
(a) Supply of textbooks                                                            315889        371504         378112
(b) In-service training, number of teachers                          1645           1650          1580           750
Internal efficiency
(c) Repetition rate (grade 1-5)                      8%               6%             4%            3%            2%            2%
(d) Dropout rate(grade 1-5)                          4%               3%             3 %           2%            2%            2%
SECONDARY EDUCATION - FIRST CYCLE
1. Increase enrollment in fiust year to 18.000 for
a transition rate of 20%
(a) Construction of colflges in the interior
Number of cofllges                                 6               12             14            15             17            20
Number of classrooms                               31              50             71            76             87            99
(b) First year enrolment                              9367            10674          12164         13861         15796          18000
(c) Transition rate from primary                      33%             33%            30%            26%           24%
(d) Total enrollment                                 26042            29744          34195         38959         44384          50575
(e) Gross enrollment ratio (%)                        13%              14%            17%           20%           24%           28%
(f) Training incremental teachers                     678              696            662           545           345            115
2. Reduce disparities between girls/boys
(a) Female share of admissions (%)                    38%             39%            40%            41%           42%            43
(b) Female share of enrollment (%)                    37%             38%            38%            39%           39%            40
(c) Female share of scholarships (%)                  23%             30%            35%            40%           45%           50%
3. Use resources more efficiently
(a) Students:classroom                                 45              45             45             45            45            45
(b) Teacher utilization rate                          84%             85%            86%            87%           87%           88%
(c) Students:teacher                                   27              27             28             28            29            29
4. Improve quality
(a) In-service training                                                63             65             58            59            61



40                                              Annex 3
Page 6 of 6
19S          199546       1996-7       199746       199699       i9ss2WO
SECONDARY EDUCATION - SECOND CYCLE
1. Maintain admission at 5000 students
Number of admissions                                      5255          5000         5000         5000        5000          5000
% of admissions                                           68%           62%          52%          48%         40%
2. Improve resource utilization and lower costs
(a) Students:classroom                                        34            34           34           34           34            34
(b) Students:teacher                                          20            20           20           21           21            21
(c) Utillzation rate of teachers                             84%           85%          87%          88%          89%           90%
(d) Non-teaching personnel costs, both cycles
Redeployment of administrators                            40%          39%           38%         37%          36%           35%
% of recurrent secondary budget                           42%           40%          39%          38%         36%           35%
(e) Redeployment of second cyde teachers to iurst
3. Improve quality
(a) In-service training                                                     63           65           58           59            61
BUDGET (UM millions)
PRIMARY                                                      2046          2287         2526         27360       28000          3000
% OF EDUCATION BUDGET                                       42%           44%          46%          48%         48%           49%
Growth rate                                                   14%          12%           10%          8%          6%            4%
SECONDARY                                                    1572          1609          1659        1712         1779          1856
% OF EDUCATION BUDGET                                       32%           31%          30%          30%         30%           30%
Growth rate                                                   5%            2%           3%          3^%          4%            4%
OTHER                                                        1275          1300         1300         1300         1300          1300
% OF EDUCATION BUDGET                                       25%           25%          24%          23%         22%           21%
EDUCATION AS % OF NATIONAL BUDGET                            21%           22%          22%          23%          23%           23%



41                                           Annex 4
Page 1 of 4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(EDUCATION V)
Primary School Construction
1.       Background
The objective of the Government's primary school construction program for the
period 1994/95-1999/2000 is to provide about 170,000 additional student places and permit the
national enrollment ratio to increase from 77% to 100%. For reasons of equity in the distribution
of educational opportunities between urban and rural areas, the Government would locate about
600 classrooms (25% of the total) in predominately urban regions and mainly in Nouakchott, and
about 2,000 (75% of the total) in six other, mostly rural, regions--Hodh El Chargui, Hodh El
Gharbi, Assaba, Gorgol, Brakna and Guidimaka. This would have the effect of maintaining
enrollment ratios in the predominately urban regions at 100% and increasing enrollment ratios in
the six others by between 30-40 percentage points.
Table 1 shows the number of classrooms needed, by region, to reach these targets,
assuming region-specific population growth rates, 45 students/class and double-shifting in 50% of
urban classrooms. Under these assumptions, about 525 new classrooms would be required each
year, for a total of 2,620 classrooms over the five-year period (FY 94-99), 75 % of which would be
in rural areas. In addition to new classroom construction, out of the existing stock of 4,000
classrooms, an estimated 2,000 need to be replaced.
Table 1: Besoins en Salles de Classe - Taux de Scolarisation 100%
Besoins en Sat Les de Classe - Taix de ScoLwisaticn 10K%
Effectifs        Taux de     Besoirs en Salles          Places                 Classes a
Scolarises     Scolarisatin        de classes       kAitirrnel Les             doubLe-ftlu
1994-99
Regicrs      1994    1999    1994   1999    Total  khel  Total   Neuves  Dble-fliK  Total % Ttl Sles
Hoch El Charc,  26,137  48,395     64%    1       400      80   22,258  18,000    4,258       95     1a
Hodh El Gharbi  21,978  37,748     72X    1       315      63   15,770  14,175    1,595       35      6%
21,497  39,860      63%    1       315      63   18,363   14,175    4,188      93      15%
Gorgol   24,687  46,924       62X    1       395      79   22,237  17,775    4,462       99      14%
rakre        2B,990  48,97B       71%    1       305      61   19,968  13,725    6,263      139    19%
rarza        31,721   36,050      907   105       0       0     4,329       0    4,329       80     15%
drar       10,151   12,07B     99%             5        1     1,927     225    1,702      38      20%
10,962  13,892     106%   105      10       2     2,930      450    2,480      41     30%
ra,arit       8,839   13,448      787    1       75       15    4,609   3,375      1,234     27      10X
Lid           16,686  31,929       64%    1      260      52   15,243   11,700    3,543       79     15%
iris-Zaur    6,870   7,542       119%   105       0       0       672       0       672      25    30%
Irdhiri        2,231    2,387     109%   105X     0        0       156       0       156      19    30%
Nhokdtt       64,868  106,260      88K  1i0      540      108   41,392   24,300   17,092     380     33%
Fotal        275,617 445,491       77%   10    2.620   524   169,874  117,900   51,974   1.150       18%



42                                           Annex 4
Page 2 of 4
Table 2: Besoins en Salles de Classe - Taux de scolarisation 80%
Besoins en salLes de cLasse - TauK de scoLarisation 80%
Effectifs           Tawx de       Besoins en SalLes           Places                Classes a
Scolarises       Scolarisaticn        de Classe            Additiameltles          Double-Flux
1994-99
Regicns    1994     1999      1994        1999     Total   Arnel    Total   Neuves DbLe-FLLu    Total % TtL Sat
Hodh El Ch   26,137   38,831      64%        80X      210      42   12,694    9,450    3 244        2        1
Hoch El Ghi  21,978   30,116      72        80X      155      31    8,138    6,975    1,163        26
Assaba      21,497   31,869       63%        80X      160       32   10,372    7,200    3,172       70       15
Gorgol      24,687   37,697       62%        80X      215      43   13,010    9,675    3,335        74       14
Brakna      28,990   39,106       71%        80X      120      24   10,116    5,400    4,716       105       1
Trarza      31,721   36,050       9e%       105%       0        0    4,329         0    4,329       80       15
Adrar       10,151   12,078      9cg 99X               5         1    1,927      225    1,702       38
Nouad       10,962   13,892      106%       105%       10       2    2,930       450    2,480       41
Ta9ant       8,839   12,212       78%        91%      50       10    3,373    2,250    1 123        25       1
16,686   25,472      64%         80%     135       27    8,786    6,075    2,711       60        15
Tiris-ZemD   6,870    8,547      119%       119%       0        0    1,677         0    1,677       25
Inchiri      2,231    2 501      109Z       110%       0        0      270        0      270        19
Ncuekchott  64,868   96,086       88X        900     370       74   31,218   16,650   14,568       324       33
Total      275.617  384,457       77%        87%   1,430       286  108.840   64,350   44.490      959       1
2.       Project Objectives, Description and Scope
To support the Government's objectives, the project would provide for: (a) the
construction, furnishing and equipping of 1,430 classrooms in seven educationally disadvantaged
regions and in peri-urban areas of Nouakchott, as follows: Hodh El Chargui (210), Hodh El
Gharbi (155), Assaba (200), Gorgol (215), Brakna (120), Guidikama (135), Tagant (50) and
Nouakchott (370) to increase gross enrollment ratios to 80% and 370 in Nouakchott to increase the
enrollment ratio there to 90% . The other 15 would be distributed in Noudhibou and Adrar to
maintain their enrollment ratios at 100%. Total capacity increase would be approximately 65,000
student places. This program would meet about 55% of the total classrooms needed to reach the
national target of 100% GER by the year 2000 (Table 3). The remaining requirement of some
1,190 new classrooms would be financed by the Government and other donors.
Table 3: CLassrocm Construction Schedule by Fiscal Year
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    Total
New classrooms needed        530      530     530      530      500     2620
Project financed             290      290     290      290      290      1430
Remaining needs              240      240     240      240      230      1190
Total cost of the new  classrooms (including contingencies) is estimated at UMI.8 billion
(US$14.4 million). Of the total cost of civil works (US 11.0 million), communities would finance
30% in cash or in labor and/or materials. The IDA credit would finance 70% of the cost of civil
works for 1,430 new classrooms, and 100% of the costs of the water supply program, teachers'
furniture for project financed classrooms and the salaries, operating costs and equipping of
regional   construction    teams    at   an    estimated    total   cost   of   US$6.8    million.



43                               Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
Modalities of School Construction. The project would assist eligible communities
to finance up to UM 650 million per classroom (US$5,200), depending on school location
(distance from Nouakchott) and method of execution of the construction contract. In Nouakchott,
classroom construction would be contracted to small-scale construction enterprises, with
AMEXTIPE managing the contract. In the six rural regions, classroom construction would be
carried out by communities, assisted and managed by regional technical coordinators (CTRs) and
their teams (mobile construction teams) including a deputy, two masons and one driver. Project
financing would be in the form of a grant representing 70% of the estimated cost of civil works,
payable in four tranches (completion of foundation, walls, roof and finishing), according to a
contract between the community and the MEN, by which communities commit themselves to
supply the additional resources needed to carry out and complete the work. This commitment
would be formalized through a contract between the MEN and each participating community,
following selection criteria developed and applied under the ongoing education project (Appendix
1).
Implementation Arrangements. Responsibilities of the various parties involved
would be as follows:
The classroom construction program would be prepared annually by the MEN's
planning unit (DPC) on the basis of a school map and requests for classrooms generated by
communities and approved by the MEN according to strict selection criteria. Application of these
criteria (Appendix 1) would be verified by the DPE. A contract for financial assistance to the
communities would be established, following the format developed and accepted under the ongoing
education project (sample contract at Appendix 2).  The management of these contract and
payments to communities would be assured by the DPE.
Technical supervision of the program would be provided by the regional technical
coordinators (CTR) and their teams, who would operate from bases established in the regions to
which they are assigned. The CTRs would be placed under the authority of the DPE, by
delegation from the MEN. To accommodate the French-assisted parallel program and ensure
adequate regional coverage, the number of CTRs would be increased from the current three to
four.
Existing CTR contracts would be revised so that a significant portion of their
remuneration -on the order of 50% - would be based on productivity (number of classrooms
completed). Under these new contracts, CTRs would be given a great deal of autonomy in the
planning of their work and the use of their resources, while they would be logistically supported
by the DPE. CTR contracts would contain detailed Terms of Reference, including reporting
requirements, and would be subject to IDA approval.



Project Costs
Primary Classroom Construction Program
La Rdpublique Islamique de Mauritanie
Projet d'Appui a I'Enseignement GdnOral (Ed
Table 11 Consnucbon Salles de Classe Pn
Detalled Costs
(USS 000)                                                               Duantltles                          Unit        Tobls Including Contingencles
Unit     1905      1996     1997     1996      1905      Total    Cost  1095   1994  1S9T  1195   1900   Total
1. Investent Cost.
A Gdnle civil
1. Nouvelles classes "
Nouakchott                         clase         90        70       70       70        70        370   744    731    585   601    617   634   3,168 8
HomsNouakchott                     classe       212      212       212      212       212      1,060    6.4  1,4d2  1,523 1J585  1,b8  1,852   7,830
Subttl Nouvelles class.                                                                                        2,214  2,107  2,165  2,225  2,286  10,998                    t        >
2 Bureaux                            unith         40       40        40       40       40        200   2.88    121    121   121   121   121    6 05
3. Latrines                          unite         40       40        40       40       40        200    0.4    17    i7    17    17    17           84                             -
4. Points d'eau                      600le                  50        50       50       50        200    1.2       -    63    63    63    63    252
Subtol Gnle civil                                                                                               2,351  2,308  2.366  2.428  2.487  11,938
B. Mobiler Ia
Mobilief- classes Nouakchott          kit          90       70        70       70       70        370   064      60     48    49    51    52    260
Mobilier - classes hors Nouakchatt    kit         212      212       212      212      212       1,060   0.64    141    145   149   153   158    748
Subtotal Mobiller                                                                                                 201    193   198   204   210   1,006
C Equipement                            kit          2              -        -             -          2    8.8    18       -      -      -      -      18                    C
D Vihicule                             unit6                   4                                      4    24            103             -           103                  i           r
E. Services de construction                                                                                                                                                X>                    S-
Coordinateustechniques/b           parannde         4        4         4        4         4        20  2b.92    116   116   116   116   116    578                     _i 4-
roti Investment Coats                                                                                             2,888  2,719  2,680  2,745  2,812  13,644               0   -        0
1. Recurrent Coats . 
A. CoOit defwncbonnement             dtatbon         4         4        4         4        4         20   33.8   139    144   149   154   160    747                          > 0
B. Salairesenseign. suppl6m.           unitd       286        286     286       28       286       1.430    24    711    736   782   768   818   3813                         4      t
rotal Recurfent Cost                                                                                               850   880   911   943   978   4,559 
1tal                                                                                                           3,537  3.5C9  3,591  3,688  3,788  18,203  '
Tables, chaise. armoires de sckage                                                                                                                                           i     .
i 4 6quipes compoe6w de: Icoordinstur technique, 1 adjoint, 2 maona, Icihaufeur
p. m
x
>4
0



45                                Annex 4
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 3
CONSTRUCTION DE SALLES DE CLASSE DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT FONDAMENTAL
Criteres d'eligibilite
Statut: L'ecole doit etre reconnue par le MEN.
Representation:  La requete doit etre presentee par 1'Association des Parents d'Eleves (APE)
represent6e par son President.
Requete: La requete doit etre int6gralement remplie, et les infornations sinceres.
Type d'ecole vse: L'APE doit s'engager a poursuivre integralement son effort de d6veloppement
de 1'ecole jusqu'a obtenir, a terme, une ecole de 6 niveaux;
Taille de 1'ecole:
*   Zones a relativement forte densite de population (villages de plus de 700
habitants). L'6cole a developper comportera 3 ou 6 classes a l' issue du projet si la population
desservie dans un rayon inferieur a 4 km est superieure a, respectivement, 700 ou 1.400 habitants;
-    Zones a faible densite de population (villages de moins de 700 habitants). L'ecole
a developper comportera au moins 2 classes et devra desservir, dans un rayon de 4 km, une
population qui n'est pas inferieure a 300 habitants.
Dans les deux cas, le ratio eleves/salle de classe ne sera pas inferieur a 25 eleves par
salle de classe.
Objectifs de scolarisation: La requete doit comporter la description de la structure pedagogique et
des mesures d'efficacite (effectifs par division pedagogique, nombre et 6tat des salles de classe,
double-flux, multigrade) pour l'annee en cours et pour l'annee suivante, apres construction des
classes envisagees. Ces indications doivent etre approuv6es par le DREF.
Site: L'ecole doit etre situ&e (i) sur un terrain approprie en surface et en exposition (exposition a
l'ensablement et/ou aux inondations) et (ii) a une distance inf6rieure a 400 m d'un point d'eau
permanent ou d'une ressource en eau confirmee par les services de l'hydraulique;
Sincerite: Toutes les indications portees sur la requete doivent etre exactes et sincares, sous peine
de nullite;
Financement: L'APE s'engage a financer (en nature ou en especes) 30 % du cou&t estime des
travaux;



46                               Annex 4
Appendix 1
Page 2 of 3
Examen du dossier: Le dossier presente par I'APE doit recevoir, avant accord de la DPC sur
I'eigibilite de la demande, les visas suivants:
-    Inspecteur D6partemental de l'Enseignement Fondamnental (IDEF),
-    Maire,
-    Pr6fet (Hakem),
-    DREF,
-    Coordinateur Technique Regional (CTR),
-    Chef de Brigade de I'Hydraulique,
-    Gouverneur (Wali),
-    Directeur de l'Enseignement Fondamental;
Cofinancement:  Sur la base de I'eligibilite mentionn6e ci-dessus, l'Unite de Gestion du Projet
assurera le cofinancement de la construction;
Convention: La Convention fixera: le type de construction (plans, descriptif), le montant estime
des travaux, la hauteur de la subvention de cofinancement, et le calendrier et les modalites
d'execution de la convention.



47                                Annex 4
Appendix 1
Page 3 of 3
TERMES DE REFERENCE DES COORDINATEURS TECHNIQUES REGIONAUX
Les Coordinateurs Techniques regionaux assurent, pour le compte de la DPEF, les missions
suivantes:
(a)   Information. Diffusion des modeles types de requetes et de conventions de cofinancement
aux Collectivites; information des differents partenaires (autorites administratives,
politiques et traditionnelles au plan r6gional, Associations de Parents d'Eleves et
Communaut6s villageoises) sur les mecanismes de la subvention et plus g6neralement du
projet;
(b)    Requetes. Assistance aux Collectivites en phase de programmnation pour: (i) la preparation
de la requete de cofinancement, (ii) I'evaluation du cout de la construction, (iii) la
comprehension des engagements reciproques contenus dans la requete;
(c)    Suivi du circuit des visas. Suivi des requetes et des conventions aupres des differentes
instances regionales et centrales aux visas desquelles ces documents sont soumis;
(d)   Implantation. Assistance des Collectivites pour: (i) le choix du site; (ii) l'organisation du
chantier (quantites et rythmne d'approvisionnement des mat6riaux locaux et non locaux,
approvisionnement en eau, quantite de main d'oeuvre qualifi6e et non qualifi6e requise);
(iii) eventuellement, le choix du tacheron et les conditions du contrat collectivite-tacheron;
(iv) explications techniques sur les regles de construction a respecter.
(e)    Appui technique. Dans le cas oa le tacheron engag6 par la Collectivite ne dispose pas des
competences suffisantes pour suivre les plans et les specifications techniques, le CTR
fournit a la collectivite l'appui technique d'un magon-instructeur pour une duree maximum
d'une semaine. Pendant cette periode, ce magon-instructeur donne les conseils necessaires
pour que la phase de travaux debute de facon techniquement correcte.
(f)    Contr6le des travaux. Le CTR effectue le contr6le des travaux selon les modalit6s decrites
au paragraphe 5.3 du Manuel de Procedures.
(g)    Paiement des subventions.  Le cas echeant, le CTR assure l'acheminement jusqu'a la
Collectivite du cheque de paiement de la subvention, comme decrit au paragraphe 5.3 du
Manuel de Procedures.
(h)    Rapports techniques et rapports d'activite.  Le CTR foumit a l'Agence des rapports
techniques, des rapports de mission et des proces-verbaux de reception selon les modeles
fournis en annexes 20 a 23 du Manuel de Procedures.



48                                     Annex 5
Page 1 of 4
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANI
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(EDUCATION V)                             MtSE A JOUR an i.'4
Other Civil Works Program
F--' .tLQCL-  S.c'E  5C WA    ~M4E
;pAC'_7 _     StA L   ?SMW$EMT C.
. :E SE .^CES OE L~G\S?4T PWWfE
1.                 EsECE
a.   Missicn La;ns modhles. r nl6rinces diba s. atdeiers da 2vva ot roloiion
b.   C_ pcs.t!n: 3 services: p4dagogique, documenaon et enrn.adCn
c    Nor-bra do penarmnnts                                                                               3
Lieu            Type d'4n.:reprise    unirt     LW
0.   C_ut do =ns-ncion locaux pincpaux                NKi                          fME  m2 hz.       30,00
f.   Coot =ns-.ticn locaux annhxes fidom c. sac)      NKTT                         RSE  t-2 ho.      24,0
g.   Coct cture                                       NK)TT                        RE       ml        6,i0
2.   -S?.4AT1CN D ES LCCALX                  SJrfa:e  neu t1t        Surf h.o     Coat =rcs5'ucion
0aa   Nb,.                                                 CocL
2.1. LCCALX PfINCPALIA         citi funitts   P      UrnIt     Total    Total   /IA42   lobin        Ttal
U      U      MZ     M2         d2   MZ  GCO UM           %  X.tO  UMw
laszos tdmcins                   50       1    1.00  50.00    50.00    60.00   30.00        1.0      1 8JW
Atelier ravaux manuels           50       1    1.00  S0,00    50.00    60,00  30.00         1.0      1 600
Salle do c=nf6renca             120       1   0.60  72.00    72.00    86,40   30.00         1.0      2 592
Cant;w de docrmentation          50       1    1.00  50,00    50.00    60.00   30.00        1,0      1 800
Bureau docjmentaliste             1       1  12.00   12.00    12.00    14,40   30.00        1.0        432
Saie reprzduc icr0ln1orrnatique   3       1   8,50  25.50    25,50    30.60   30.00         1.0        918
Bureau oriernaon                  1       1  12.00  12.00    12,00    14 40   30,00    1t0             4A2
A;i'~.instraticn sec:our priv6    3       1   12.00   12.00    36,00    43.20   30.00       1.0      1 298
Hail C1a-._eil                    6       1   3.00   18.00    18,00    21.60   30.00        1,0        648
Saniaires                         2       1   3,00   6,00       6,00      7.20   30.00      1.0        216
C.rouaiac_n                       -       1         24.60    24,60    29.52   30,00        1,0       a88
To:al 2.1.                                        30750   3c9,00                       12 820
2.2. LCALX A.NNMS
Logo ;ardien                       -      1  12.00   12.00    12,00    14,40   24,00        1.0        346
Total 2.2                                         12,00    14,40                          346
2.3. AMMACuSENMNrS icrT.
Fad.
Racrd. eau (si existe)            -               -                          -  50,00       1.0         s0
Racord. 6occ. (Si exist)           *      1       *       .        *            100,00      1.0        100
Virie                              .      1       .                          - 100.00       1.0        100
MA.    /ML
C6ture                                    1       -                 -  260,00    6,60       1.0      1 716
Portail                            -      1       -       -         -     4,00   14.00      1,0         56
Tc:al 2.3                                                                                1 972
2.4. TOTALGENERAL                                             319.50   383,40                       15 137



49                                     Annex 5
Page 2 of 4
FEr- z- A?:r*= A               C-
G2sJE 1               EW.rg
-&    Nc~r.rr e ac~s ;hd2Co;:- .fs darX Un '?p.dt =kl,2*                                                  7
b.   Nca .-. s  lkves odnun pr secdcn pd c ique                                                          A5
c.   Ncr.bre 'J:;1 optLlum CdAIves p;r pedt =U4g*C aS                                                  315
e'   Ncn!re 6tauras hebddma4aias d%m  sOcdn pd4caogiqu*                                                  2!
0.   Ncrrs: bre urss h*bddzezaires rsper s4es das un 'p.c =kgs.                            a x d        196
i.   Nor.u ~'dt--urss  - ;an d'un. dazu pr jour                                                           7
C.   Ncrcrc de jours oum-2bJs par samrans,                                                                6
h.   Notrbro d'hures heb6adairms citsafn efun. saWl d cazss                                 f x g        39
L    Ncrn.rv hicique de s.ais dA e s dC m *pt =igs'                                        a / h          S
j.   Ncr,.ire c;     sales de c!sse                                                                       6
Lsec  rTye Cdfn: prs.s   unitJ         LU
. j.   C:_t  _-.s.uo_n IIaux snmsignar..acnt at                 NK77 isvE  r. 2 hc.                    2:.,0
k.   C;rt   s.oon dos saetadrss                                 NK77                FME  m2 ht..       11,SS
L    Cc't =nsrjc,:n cfdure                                      NKTI                PvE  rd Iha.         6.6
2.   E-S 0h       3 -Cs    LCCALIX             S     u r f a c                       o n a t t a  Sat h.z  Cot c nz.s -:con
c.aa   Nxbv                                                Cz&L
E-. ra.ic. *ess locaulr        c.tJd Tunirds   P;A    Uritd    Tot/at    Tot=/al    /2   dloign       Total
U      U      M2     Uz                      COO UM(       %     icYCO UAW
S. 1. SU:S   =PS
alr  45 ssr                      45       6    1,11  49,88   299,23   353,14   24.00         1i5     12 929
7CJ 2.1.            4S                           29,.29   359,14                        12 929
2.2. A0WANS7.-A-,C.N
B_.r.au Oirec:a8r                  1       1  12.00   12.00    12.00    14,40   24,00        1,5        5l8
Adjoint (;cIyva2Int)               I       1   9,00    9,00      9,00    10,30   24,00       1.5        389
WACa~ I1-                                 1       .   3.60       3,60      4,32   24,00      1.5        156
*i_;in:hdS_c   .(a)  25  1   1,15    1.00    28.30    34,5i  24,00      1,5       1 244
C-_z_rn 'ic7 ar0. 7.8,s45   24,00                                                            1,S        304
T'tal 2.2           27                             60,4A    72.53                         2611
2.3 L=CAUXANNEXE5
La;.g ;arzfn                       1      1    9.0    9,0         9.0      10.1  24.00       1.5        389
Sa,,i=irez pr-fs                   I      1    5.3    5,3         5,3       6,4   11,8S     1,5        113
Sami=urss 4J0vos                   1      a     5,3    5.3       42.5      51.0   11.85      1.5        906
Tcra 2.3             3                              56.3      68,1                        1408
2.4     EN-C                                                              Total  1 00o
/-C  UL0JL.
C:cr.                                     1                                200    6,60       1,5       1 980
F:rs at pcrzl                   -         1                                   4      14      1,5         84
T:oJ 2.4                                                                                 2 064
2.5. TOTAL.Es-RNAL                                               416       sao                        19 012



50                                    Annex 5
Page 3 of 4
MlSE A JOUR 8/1194
REPUBUQUE ISLCLIE DE MAUFUTANE
PROJET DAPPUI A LENSEIGNEMENT GENERAL
GENE-CML
UNIVERSITE - FACULTE DES LETrRES ET SCIENCES HUMLWNES (FISH)
1.  DO(TEES GENEl.ALES
a.   Nombre total d'tudiants (1992-93)                                                           2 163
b.  Nombre total de professeurs (1992-93)                                                          88
c.   Capacdt totale d'accueil d6tudiants des locaux existants (salles coursnamphis+bibli) appartenant i FLSH  756
d.  Capact6 totale 2 grands amphis an chander en 1994 (desinds A ensemble Universitd)            1 500
e.   Capacitd totale d'accueil d'etudiants des nouveaux locaux envisagds                          463
2.  COUTS UNITAIRES                                 Lieu            Type d'entrapdse   unitj       Li
a.   Rehabilitation l6gere (peinture, menuis., 6lectrit6, sat  NKTT  GPDEENTIEfSE m2 h.o.        10,00
b.  Cout constructlon locaux banalises neufs        NKTT            GRDEENTISE  m2 h.o.          32,00
c.   Cout construction labos et salles recherche    NKTT            GfOEENTllSE  m2 h.o.         40.00
d.   Cout construction sanitaires neuls             NKTT            GPDEENT 1  m2 h.o.           50.00
2.  ESTIMATION DES LOCAUX                  Surface notle            Surf h.o   CoOt construcdon
Capa   Nbre                                             Cost
2.1. REHABIITATIONS          ciI 6 lunit6s   P"co   Urnid    Total    Total   /M2   Jloign       Total
U      U     M2      M2       M2        M2 000 uM       %    1000 LM
N; Iocal
Salles decours        1 a 4    41      4    1,00  40,77   163,06   195.67   10,00      1.0       1 957
Salles de cours       5 i 7    25      3    1.00   25,37    76,11    91.33   10,00     1,0        913
Sallesdecours       8 A 10    45       3    1,00  44.53   133,59   160,31   10,00       1,0      1 603
Salbesdecours       11&12      21      2    1,00  20,74    41.48    49,78   10.00      1.0        498
Bibliotheque            13     76      1   1,00  75,92    75.92    91.10   10.00       1.0        911
Amphithdatre 1          14    158      1   1,00 157.56   157,56   189.07   10.00       1,0       1 891
Amphith6atre 2          15    108      1   1,00 107,80   107.80   129,36   10,00       1.0       1 294
Total 2.1.        756 (6tudiants)              755,52   906,62                       9 066
2.2. CONSTRUCT)ONS NEUVES
Sallsodecours      16 A 20     48      4    1.00  48,00   192,00   230.40  32,00       1.0       7:373
CE1                    21      84      1   1,00  84,00    84.00   100,80  40,00        1.0      4 032
Blbfliotheque          22      98      1   1,00  98,00    98,00   117,60  32,00        1,0      3 763
Stockaga                23     53      1   1,00  53,30    53,30    63,96  32,00        1.0      2 047
Bureau rasp. bibli     24       1      2   9.00    9,00    18,00    21,60  32.00       1,0        691
Labeau histo            25     44      1   1,80  78,40    78,40    94,08  40,00        1,0       3 763
LaboG6o                26      44      1   1,80   78,40    78,40    94.08  50,00       1.0      4 704
Bureau                 27       2      1  15,75  31.50    31.50    37.80  32,00        1.0       1 210
bureaux             28 A 31     1      4  12,00   12,00    48,00    57,60  32,00        1,0      1 843
Ddpot                  3 2      1      1  12,00   12,00    12,00    14,40  32,00       1,0        461
circulation interieure  33      1      1  12,00   12,00    12,00    14,40  32.00       1.0        461
escalier               34   46,2       1   0.50   23,10    23,10    27.72  50,00       1.0       1 386
sanitaires             35      10      1   3,15   31,50    31,50    37,80  50.00       1,0       1 890
Circulation exterieure  36 - 37    87  2   0.90   78,48' 156.96   188,35  21.33        1.0      4 018
Total 2.2.        516 (6tudiants)              917,16  1100,59                      37 642
2.4. TOTALGENERAL                                         1672,68  2007,22                     46 708



51                                        Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
PsJET DAPPUI A LSNSEiGNEMENT GENERAL
GENECIVIL
UMVERSTE - FACLLTE ODETOES JUR01JUES ET EONMOtES (FEJE)
1. DoatESGENES
a.   Nombrn total d'6tudiants an 1992-93                                                             3 877
b.   Nombre total de proftsseurs on 1992-93                                                             67
c.   Capacit6 total d'accuoil des locaux *xistants (sal.s cours+p.tts amphis+bibE) utilis4s parfois par FLSH  1 375
d.   Capacitd totalb des 2 grands amphis on chander en 1994 (dgsfnds k rensambl. de l'Universit6)    1 500
e.   Capacite totale craccusil des locaux envisagAs                                                  I 065
2.   COUIS UNiTAIRES                                  Ueu              Type d'entreprise    unild     Lu
a.   Rehabilitadon legers (peinturs. menuis., 61ectriciti. sw   NKTT   GRDEENTRIISE  m2 h.o.         10.00
b.   Cout construction locaux banalTsds neufs         NKTT             GRDEENRSE  m2 h.o.            32,00
c.   Cout constnjction labos et salles recherche      NKTT             G;DE ENTREnRISE m2 h.o.       40,00
d.   CoOt construcdon sanitaires nsufs                NKTT             GRDEEN =TRS   m2 h.o.         50,00
3.   ESTIMATION DES LOCAUX                   Surface n*tte             Surf h.o    Coot constrnction
C,p.   Nbre                                                Cost.
3.1. LCCAUX PEDAGOGKXJES       citi 'unitds   Pbc    Unitd     Total     Total   /M2   doigtn         Total
tt     U     A2      M2        M2        M2 000 UM         %    1000 UM
N' local
Sallesdecours         1 a 14    67      14    1.00   67,20   940,80  1128,96   32,00        1.0     36 127
oirculadons sailes cours 15 a 16    106  2   0.50  53,19   106,38   127.66   21.33          1,0      2 723
circuladons sall6s cours 17 A 18    142  2   0.50   70,78   141,55   169,86   21,33         1.0      3 624
escaGers            19 A 22     46       4   0.50   23.10    92.40   110.88   32.00         1.0      3 548
Contre Etudes Recherche    23   84       1   1.00   84,00    84,00   100,80   32.00         1.0      3 226
Salle de reunion         24     40       1   1,00   40,00    40,00    48,00   40.00         1.0      1 920
Total 2. 1.       1065 (dtudiants)              1405,13  1686.16                       51 168
2.2. ONSTRUCTION BUREAUXENSEIGNANTS
Bur. chlas ddpartmts  25 A 30     1      6   12.50   12.50    75.00    90.00   32.00       1.0       2 880
Secrdtariat              31       1      1  12.50   12,50      12,50    1S,00   32.00       1,0        480
Circulation bureaux    32 A 33           1       -  82.26    82.26    98.71   32.00         1,0      3 159
Sanitaires          34 a 35       3      2   2,98    8.94      17.88    21.45   50.00       1,0      1 073
Escalier                 36     21       1   0.50   10,35      10,35    12.42   32,00      1.0        398
Total 2.2.                                        197,99   237.59                        7 989
2.3. CONSTRUCTION BUREAUX AOMNISTRATION
Bureau dayen             37       1      1  28.25   28.25    28.25    33.90  32.00          1.0      1 085
Secatariat doyen         38       1      1  11,00   11.00      11,00    13,20  32,00        1.0        422
Secretariat general      39       1      1  14.28   14,28      14.28    17.14  32,00        1,0        548
Secrdtaire Alf. Administ.   40    1      1  14.28   14.28      14,26    17,14  32.00        1.0        548
Chat de service          4 1      1      1   9,90    9,90       9.90    11,88   32,00       1,0        380
Seacrtariat              42       1      1   9.90    9.90       9.90    11.88   32.00       1.0        380
AntenneCRI               43       2      1   8.04   18,09      1 6.09    19.31   32,00      1.0        818
Toilettes                44       2      1   4.47    8,94       8.94    10.73   50.00       1.0        536
Circulation              45       1      1   1,00   17.19    17.19    20,83   12,67         1,0        261
Total 2.3.                                        129.83   155,79                        4 780
2.4. TOTAL GENERAL                                           1732,94  2079.53                       63 936



52                                  Annex 6
Page 1 of 5
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(EDUCATION V)
Scolarisation des Filles: Plan d'Action
Contexte.
L'independance de la Mauritanie a et en pratique le point de depart d'un
developpement substantiel de la scolarisation formelle dans son ensemble y compris celle des filles.
En 1960, les filles ont enregistre un taux de scolarisation de 5% dans l'enseignement fondamnental
(contre 17% pour les garcons). Dans 1'ensemble des effectifs, elles ne representaient que 23% de la
population scolaire du fondamental, 5% des effectifs du secondaire et 0% dans le superieur.
Depuis lors, la scolarisation des filles a connu un accroissement considerable et plus eleve que
celle des garcons. Cependant, le taux d'inscription des filles demeure nettement inferieur a celui
des garcons a tous les niveaux de 1'enseignement. Au niveau primaire, les filles accusent un retard
de 15 points au niveau des taux bruts d'inscription (81%  pour les filles contre 96%  pour les
garSons en 1992/93) et de 11 points au niveau des taux de scolarisation (50% pour les filles, 69%
pour les garcons). Cet ecart est attribuable en grande partie a une participation plus faible des filles
dans 5 wilayas des regions de l'Est et du Fleuve.
Des etudes entreprises par le Gouvernement Mauritanien pour identifier les
obstacles a la scolarisation des filles ont montre que les entraves different selon les zones
geographiques et selon les milieux sociaux. Ils procedent toutefois toujours d'une conjugaison de
facteurs scolaires et de facteurs extra-scolaires.  Les derniers comprennent:  eloignement de
l'ecole par rapport au domicile, le recrutement tardif et irregulier des filles, peu d'enseignantes,
une image negative de l'ecole due a l'affectation de jeunes maitres inexperimentes, et les pratiques
en matiere de  redoublement et d'exclusions qui desavantagent les filles.  Les facteurs extra-
scolaires comprennent la pauvrete, I'environnement culturel et les traditions sociales qui favorisent
le mariage des filles des la puberte n'encouragent pas leur scolarisation. Les parents et les filles
per,oivent peu les benefices de la scolarisation des filles, surtout dans les familles les plus
demunies oui les contraintes financieres et economiques sont telles que les enfants constituent la
seule main d'oeuvre et sont engages comme aide domestique ou comme bergers.
Objectifs et Portee.
Les objectifs du gouvernement en matiere de scolarisation des filles sont:
(a) Reduire au niveau national 1'ecart educatif entre garcons et filles dans le
fondamental en augmentant leur taux d'inscription en 1lre AF de 81 % (1992/93) a
100% en 1999/2000, et leur taux brut de scolarisation de 58% en (1992/93) a
100% en l'an 1999/2000 qui ferait passer le taux de participation feminine de
44,4% en 1992/93 a 50% en 1999/2000;



53                                  Annex 6
Page 2 of 5
(b) Reduire les ecarts inter-regionaux de l'inscription des filles, en faisant porter
des efforts particuliers sur les regions suivantes qui affichent en 1992/93 des taux
inferieurs a la moyenne nationale: Hodh Chargui (75%), Assaba (72%), Gorgol
66%), Brakna (81 %), Guidimaka (56%);
(c) Hausser la participation des femmes dans le systeme educatif en augmentant la
proportion d'enseignantes dans le fondamental de 19% en 91/92 a 30% en
1999/2000 [hypothese d'un recrutement de 18% de fenumes niveau Bac. et de 40%
de fenmmes niveau Brevet];,et en portant le nombre de femmes cadres occupant des
postes de responsabilite dans l'administration du MEN de 3 en 1992/93 a 20 en
1999/2000; et
(d) Favoriser une meilleure participation feminine au sein de 1'enseignement
secondaire, en augmentant la proportion de filles boursieres a 50%.
Le Programme.
Mesures de politigue.  La strategie proposee par le Gouvemement Mauritanien
vise, en premier lieu, a accroitre l'accas et le maintien des filles dans le fondamental par: (a) une
extension du reseau scolaire, (b) des directives aux ecoles pour qu'elles accueillent toutes les filles
de 6 ans qui se presentent, (c) I'elimination progressive de la pratique du recrutement non-annuel
dans les zones rurales par un recours plus systematique au multigrade, (d) I'adoption et
1'integration dans les reglements scolaires de dispositions pr6cisant le droit d'accas des filles
mari6es a l'6cole fondamentale et les conditions de reinsertion des filles ayant quitte l'ecole en
cours d'annee scolaire pour motifs de mariage ou de grossesse, et (e) I'adoption d'une politique de
decentralisation partielle, permettant aux Directeurs d'ecoles, suite a l'expression d'une demande
6manant des APE, d'ajuster les horaires et calendriers scolaires aux conditions socio-economiques
prevalant dans leurs zones.
Au niveau secondaire, les quotas de bourses pour les filles seront augmentes
jusqu'a concurrence de 50%; aux ENIs, les enseignantes-eleves beneficieront de la politique de
recrutement des instituteurs-adjoints au niveau du Brevet ; et au Ministere de 1'Education National,
la participation des femmnes dans le systeme educatif sera en encourageant le recrutement et la
promotion de femmes dans les postes de responsabilite de 1'administration par une politique
d'action positive" (a competence egale, priorite aux femmes) qui portera a 20 le nombre de femmes
cadres en poste de responsabilite.
Activites.  Les activites prioritaires comprennent: (a) au niveau national, une
campagne d'information, education et conimunication (IEC) du personnel enseignant, et des
ameliorations pedagogiques, et (b) des interventions pilotes dans les cinq wilayas prioritaires.
Au niveau national, le Ministere de l'Education National assurera  le suivi et levaluation de ce
programme national et la supervision des etudes supplementaires.



54                                   Annex 6
Page 3 of 5
Pour les ameliorations pedagogigues. les interventions visees sont: (i) I'evaluation des
manuels scolaires et guides du maitre en preparation ou en reedition pour identifier et eliminer la
discrimination basee sur le sexe ; (ii) la preparation de materiel pedagogique de support
complementaire a tendance positive, a l'usage des maitres et des encadreurs ; (une attention
particuliere sera accordee au materiel visant l'amelioration de l'apprentissage des filles en
math6matiques) ; et (iii) I'elaboration de modules de formation initiale et continue des encadreurs
et maitres, visant, entre autres, a les sensibiliser au comportement et materiel discriminatoire.
Les interventions pilotes dans les cinq wilayas cibles, les interventions consisteraient
en: (i) une campagne de sensibilisation des populations; (ii) 1'organisation de supports
pedagogiques (cours d'appoint, tutorat, repetiteurs, etc.) pour les filles en 6eme AF et pour les
candidates au concours d'institutrices-adjointes, dans le but d'aineliorer le taux de reussite des
filles au fondamental au concours d'entree au secondaire d'une part et au cours d'entree a l'ENI,
d'autre part ; et (iii) un Fonds d'Appui aux Filles (FAF) qui repondra a des demandes concretes
emanant du niveau local en financant des projets elabores par le personnel des ecoles et les APE ou
autres groupements locaux afin de lever les obstacles auxquels font face les populations pour
scolariser leurs filles.
Fonds d'Appui aux Filles. Seuls les departements oiu le taux de participation des filles
est inf6rieur a 45% pourraient beneficier de ces fonds. L'acces au FAF serait organise sous la
forme d'un "concours", pour entrainer une certaine emulation des ecoles des associations. II
pourrait soutenir aussi bien (i) des projets se realisant au sein de l'ecole, d'ordre pedagogique
(ex.: support pedagogique aux filles en difficulte scolaire, apprentissages de savoir-faire
compl6mentaires aux programmes scolaires, instauration d'un systeme de motivation pour
l'assiduite et la performance scolaire des filles, etc.) et en cas exceptionnel, pour ameliorer
l'environnement scolaire (e.g., cantines, cooperatives d'approvisionnement en fourniture scolaire,
approvisionnement en eau potable) ; et (ii) des projets se realisant hors de I'ecole (transport vers
l'ecole, garderies scolaires associatives, cooperatives de fabrication de vetements pour les enfants,
cainpagnes d'aniination/recrutement, etc.).
L'appui du Fonds sera octroye a condition que le personnel d'une ecole s'implique
dans une demarche d'animation des populations en vue de faire connaitre l'ecole aux populations,
comprendre les contraintes specifiques du milieu, elaborer un projet commun, et que tous les deux
s'engagent a augmenter substantiellement le taux de participation des filles (objectif a determiner
au cas par cas selon la situation de depart).
La mise en oeuvre du FAF dans chacune des regions cibles se fera en deux temps. La
premiere annee sera consacree au lancement du programme: information/formation des Directeurs
d'ecole, sensibilisation/information des populations, identification des projets conjoints
ecole/groupement local, elaboration et acheminement de la requete, selection des projets. Le
demarrage des actions aura lieu a partir de la deuxieme annee. Elles devront etre implantees dans
un delai maximum de deux ans. La mise en oeuvre du FAF suivra le meme rythme d'implantation
geographique  que  les  autres  activites  de  la  composante  scolarisation  des  filles.



55                                Annex 6
Page 4 of 5
Les subventions aux 6coles seront modestes, totalisant en moyenne 200,000 UM par
projet et couvriront 300 6tablissements scolaires dans les regions prioritaires conform6ment aux
criteres d'eligibilite et aux conditions d'octroi tels que prevus dans un manuel de procedures. Des
interventions soutenues dans le cadre du programme mettra l'accent sur l'appui pedagogique et
l'amelioration des relations avec la communaute. Le programme demarrera dans le Brakna sur une
base experimentale au cours de la deuxieme annee, et sera 6largi au cours de la troisieme ann6e
pour inclure Gorgol et Guidimaka. Un manuel de procedures sera elabore avant le lancement de
l'annee d'exp6rimentation dans le Brakna, qui precisera les criteres d'eligibilite, les criteres
d'evaluation des projets, les procedures de paiement, et les m6canismes d'evaluation et d'audit.
7.        Responsabilite de Mise en Oeuvre
Le Secretariat d'Etat a la Condition Feminine sera responsable de la campagne de
sensibilisation. L'IPN sera charge de l'evaluation du materiel pedagogique et de la production du
materiel supplementaire dans le cadre de son programme d'evaluation et de provision de manuels
scolaires (l'appui du projet dans ce domiaine est inclus dans la composante "manuels scolaires").
L'introduction des modules de formation dans les programmes de formation des enseignants, est
comprise dans la composante "formation des enseignants" et relevera des Directeurs des ENIs. La
revision des politiques et des pratiques, la carnpagne de sensibilisation et d'information pour le
personnel educatif, la gestion du programme et la responsabilite generale pour superviser
1'execution de la composante seront la responsabilite de la Direction de I'Enseignement
Fondamental qui nommnera un responsable de projet. Les questions relatives au decaissement et a la
gestion     du      Fonds      seront      examinees      lors      de     l'evaluation.



56                                              Annex 6
Page 5 of 5
AN O        AN I          AN 2           AN 3            AN 4           AN 5
ActivittResponsabil[t                       expdrln. it.                                                                1999/
prel.       1995/96       1996/97        1997/98        1998/99         2000
Mesures politiques:
-directives inscription filles de 6 ans;   DEF   X
-recrutement bi-annuel + multigrade;  DEF   X
-carte scolaire r6gionalis6e;      DPC   X
-dispositions reglementaires sur les 61eves
mari6es;                                   X
MEN
-politique de d6centralisation partielle pour  X           X              X
les horaires scolaires;
DEF                                        25%             30%            35%            40%            45%             50%
-augmentation des quotas de bourses   DES                  X
-regl. affect. institutrices zones rurales DEF  1          2              2              3              6               6
-recrutement femmes cadres au MEN  MEN
Sensibilisation des cadres du MEN:    DEF
Forum des institutrices             ENI                    Nouakchott
Aioun
Sensibilisation des populations   SECF    H. Chargui       H. Gharbi      Assaba
Evaluation des manuels scolaires    IPN   X                _
Mat6riel p6dagogique a tendance positive   X               x
IPN                                                        _ I
Modules de formation ENI et IPN            X               X             _
Formation initiale des maltres  DEFIENI                    X              X              X              X               X
Formation en cours d'emploi: enseignants et   Brakna       Gorgol         H. Chargui
encadreurs          DEF/DREF                               Guidimakha    Assaba          X              X               X
Support pedagogique 6eme AF         DEF   Brakna          | Gorgol        H. Chargui
Guidimakha    Assaba         X              X               X
Support p6dagogique - concours DES/ENI   Brakna            Gorgol         H. Chargui
___________________ _  |Guidimakha    Assaba    X              X              X
Elaboration man. de proc6d.    C.T. FAF   X                _ ____
Formation au FAF                           Brakna          Gorgol         Guidirnaka     X              X
Mobilisation locale, pr6paration requete et  Brakna        Gorgol         Guidimaka      X              X               X
traitement des dossiers                                   I
Activlte/Responsabilite                        AN 0            AN 1           AN 2           AN 3           AN 4            AN 5
experim. & et.
_prel.        1995/96        1996/97        1997198        1998/99       19/2000
Lancement des actions FAF                                                 (Brakna)       H. Chargui
Brakna        Gorgol         Assaba         X               X
Guidimakha
R66valuation mi-parcours                                                                 x
Etude faisabilit6 sur les adwabas          X                      _
Etudes dossiers de zone                                    (Brakna)       H. Chargui
Brakna          Gorgol         Assaba         X              X               X
Guidimakha
Etudes sur facteurs situ. scol. filles                     X
Mise en place syst. suivil6valuation       X               X



57                                              Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(EDUCATION V)
Textbooks and Teachers' Guides
Table 1. Titres et Tirages du Cr. 1943-MAU
Fondamental
Ann6e        Sujet          D6c. 1992        Mai 1993         Juin 1994        Sept. 1995         Total
1     Math arabe                             41,000                                              41,000
2     Math arabe                             25,000                                              25,000
Math francais                           6,000                                               6,000
3     Math arabe                                              25,000                             25,000
Math fran,ais                                            7,000                             7,000
4     Math arabe                                              23,000                             23,000
Math fran,ais                                            7.000                             7,000
5     Math arabe                             18,000                                              18,000
Math frangais                           7,000                                              7,000
6     Math arabe            20,000                                                               20,000
Math fran,ais         10,000                                                               10,000
Total                          30,000           97,000           62,000                            189,000
Secondaire
1     Math arabe            10,000                                                               10,000
Sci Nat                                                                   9,000            9,000
Histoire                                                                   6,000           6,000
2     Math arabe                             10,000                                              10,000
Sci Nat                                                                   9,000            9,000
Histoire                                                                   8,000           8.,000
3     Math arabe                                              10,000                             10,000
Sci Nat                                23,000                                             23,000
Lect arabe                                                                9,000            9,000
4     Lect arabe                             20,000                                              20,000
Anglais                                                  8,000                             8,000
Physique                                                                  8,000            8,000
Chimie                                                                    8,000            8,000
5     Math arabe                                               8,000                              8,000
Lectarabe                              18,000                                              18,000
Grammaire                              18,000                                              18,000
Sci Nat                                10,000                                              10,000
Physique                                                                  9,000            9,000
Chimie                                                                    9,000            9,000
6     Lect arabe                             20,000                                              20,000
Grammaire                              20,000                                             20,000
Sci Nat                                10,000                                              10,000
Physique                                                                  9,000            9,000
Chimie                                                                    9,000            9,000
Total                                          149,000          26,000             93,000          268,000



58                                       Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
Table 2. Manuels Finances par le Projet Education V - Enseignement Fondanental
Annee          Titre             Type       Tirage   Nb de  Fornat  Gram.  Papier  Nb.   Coul.  Reliure  NB
Pages            Inter   Couv  Inter  Couv               d'IlI
1    Math_matiques arabe   R6impression   72,000      64   18*24        90    300      4       4  piqure    340
1    Lecture arabe         Reimpression   72,000     180   15*21        90    300      2       2  couture   131
1    Mathematiques frangc   Reimpression    9,000     64       18      824    300      4       4  piqure    340
1    Lecture francaise     Reedition       9,000     150   21*27        90    300      2       2  couture   120
2     Math6matiques arabe   Reimpression   68,000     64   18*24        90    300       4       4  piqure    228
2     Lecture arabe        Rimpression   68,000      176   15*21        90    300       2       2  couture    65
2     Math6matiques franc   Reimpression    8,000     64   18*24        90    300       4       4  piqure    228
2     Lecture francaise    Reedition        8,000     150   21*27       90    300       2       2  couture   120
3    Mathematiques arabe   Reimpression   65,000     112   18*24        90    300       2       2  couture   141
3    Lecture arabe         Reimpression   65,000     112   18*24        90    300       2       2  couture    58
3    Mathematiques fran,c   Rimpression    8,000     112   18*24        90    300       2       2  couture   141
3    Lecture fran,aise     Reedition        8,000     64   21*27        90    300       1       2  couture   100
3    Etude du mil. 3&4 a/   Nouveau        130,00    120   21*27        90    300       2       2  couture   260
4     Mathematiques arabe   Reimpression   60,000     104   18*24       90    300       4       4  couture   105
4     Lecture arabe        Rimpression   60,000       112   18*24       90    300       2       2  couture    51
4     Math6matiques franc   Rimpression    7,000      104   18*24       90    300       4       4  couture   105
4     Lecture francaise    Reedition        7,000     164   21*27       90    300       2       2  couture   100
5    Mathematiques arabe   Reimpression   51,000     168   18*24        90    300       4       4  couture   107
5     Lecture arabe        Reimpression   51,000     144   18*24        90    300       2       2  couture    16
5     Mathematiques franc   Reimpression    6,000    144   18*24        90    300       4       4  couture   107
5     Lecture francaise    Reedition        6,000    150   21*27        90    300       1       2  couture    90
5    Etude du milieu 5&6   Nouveau         102,00    120   18*25        90    300       2       2  couture   210
6    Mathematiques arabe   Reimpression   43,000    208   21*27         90    300       4       4  couture    58
6    Lecture arabe         Reimpression   43,000     144   18*24        90    300       2       2  couture    17
6    Mathematiques franc   RMimpression    5,000     160   21*27        90    300       2       2  couture    58
6     Lecture fran,aise    Reedition       5,000     150   21*27        90    300       1       2  couture   100
Total                                       950,000
a/ Science naturelle, education sanitaire, et l'environnement
b/ Enrollment assumed at 90% of school-age population



59                                Annex 8
Page 1 of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
EDUCATION (V)
Curriculum Development and Teacher Training
1.            Background. Effectively no organized curriculum development takes place at the
primary level. The issuance of subject programs is the responsibility of the Inspector General for
primary education and his staff of two former inspectors, a set up that is not conducive to the
development and revision of curricula. As a result, over the past 20 years, only minor
modifications have been introduced in the curriculum which is academic, difficult for the majority
of students and geared toward preparing students for an academic secondary education.
2.            Under the on-going education project (Cr. 1943-MAU, 1988), educational
programs for primary schools were revised slightly in view of the start-up of a textbook production
program supported by the project (para. 3.26). Financing was also provided for the preparation
and testing of a program, including in-service teacher training, to introduce multi-grade and
double-shift teaching. However, no training has taken place and most textbooks will only be
arriving in 1995/96. In parallel, the Cooperation francaise (CF) supported the first phase (1987-
1990, FF7.75 million) of a program to improve instruction in French at the primary and secondary
levels and in secondary mathematics.3 Through the PARSEM program (1991-1994), the CF has
expanded its support to assist the MEN in the definition of skills and competencies that primary
and secondary students are expected to achieve in school (profil d'eleve). These are intended to
form the basis of a more comprehensive revision of programs which the CF would support at the
primary level in French, mathematics and environmental studies, and at the secondary level in
French, mathematics, science and technology.
3.            Pre-service teacher training is provided in two ENIs, in Nouakchott and Aioun.
Training lasts for one year after the Baccalaureate or three years after the BFEM. Intake since
1990 has averaged 600-650 per year. Due to a sufficient number of Bacheliers , since 1990, only
30 students were admitted into the three-year BFEM program each year. Under its PARSEM
program (1991-1994), the CF is supporting improvements in the quality of pre-service training
focusing on the redefinition of training objectives, and the revision of programs and teaching
methods in the priority subjects of second language, mathematics and science.
4.            In-service teacher training. Teachers receive virtually no support to improve their
skills. Although most departments in the MEN claim responsibility for some sort of
3   As part of this program, the CF financed technical assistance and related textbooks.



60                                 Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
in-service teacher training, none have either the financial or human resources, nor the authority, to
meet in-service needs. As a result, in the recent past, in-service training has consisted of one
annual meeting in Nouakchott of all 4,000 teachers with the objective of disseminating information
at a high cost of about $200,000 per seminar.
5.            Proposed Programs. The proposed project would reinforce or complement on-
going efforts supported under Education III and the Cooperation francaise (CF). In the area of
curriculum development, the project would support: (i) a program to evaluate the primary school
curricula, textbooks and teachers' guides in language arts and mathematics, and revise weak or
problematic training materials; (ii) a major revision of the social studies program (etude du milieu)
to improve the integration and relevancy of health and environmental issues; and (iii) capacity
building in curriculum development. In pre-service and in-service teacher training, the project
would support the development and implementation of training modules in double-shift and multi-
grade teaching, and for improving girls' performance.
6.             Proiect support.  To support the IPN in the evaluation and revision of the
curriculum and teaching materials, the project would finance 16 months of consultant services and
training through a twinning arrangement with an external institution competent in primary
curriculum development, study tours to countries in the region, office equipment, furniture,
supplies, and a vehicle.  For pre-service teacher training, the project would finance the
rehabilitation and equipping of the ENI in Nouakchott, 6 months of international consultant
services to assist in the development, testing and evaluation of training programs and materials,
and the production of training materials. For in-service teacher training, the project would finance
equipment for the ENI in Aioun, the costs of training workshops (including travel costs and
subsistence for workshop participants, reproduction of materials, and related operating costs) for
1,000 teachers in multigrade classrooms and 1,500 in double-shift classrooms.
7.            Responsibility for implementation.  Curriculum  development and revision is
currently the responsibility of the Education Inspection unit in the MEN. The technical audit of
the MEN to be carried out under the project will assess the effectiveness of this institutional
arrn.ngement and that of transferring this function to the IPN in order to maximize the use of skills
important to both textbook and curriculum development.
8.             For in-service teacher training, the MEN has confirmed the following institutional
responsibilities:
Overall coordination       IPN
Regional programming        Comite de Pilotage de la Formation Continue (CPFC)
Module development          IPN, IEF (assisted by the ENIs and IPRs)
Inspector training          IPN and DREF (assisted by ENIs and IPRs)
Teacher training            DREF and IDEN (assisted by ENIs and IPR)
Evaluation                  IPN



61                               Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
Concerning the development of the modules supported under the project, the ENI
in Nouakchott would be responsible for the development of modules for double-shift teaching, and
the ENI in Aioun for modules related to multigrade teaching and girls' education.



62                                     Annex 8
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(EDUCATION V)
Formation Continue des Enseignants
(Double Flux, Multigrade et Scolarisation)
DOUBLE FLUX             MULTIGRADE              SCOLARISATION
DES FILLES
Hodh Charghi                      150                     200                      310
Hodh gharbi                       60                       180                     230
Assaba                            150                      100                     270
Gorgol                            130                      110                     250
Brakna                            180                      120                     340
Trarza                            120                      150                     400
Adrar                             60                       50                      150
D, Nouadhibou                     60                       0                       100
Tagant                            30                      100                      160
Guidimaka                         100                      90                      210
TOTAL                            1530                     1100                    3000



63                                    Annex 8
Appendix 2
Page 1 of 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(EDUCATION V)
Formation Continue des Maitres de
lEnsefgnement Fondamental
1994-1995       1995-96      1996-97       1997-98     1998-99
C. Double-flux (CFD                -            420          500           610           -
C. Multigrade (CMG)                -            475          400           225
Scolarisation des filles           -            750          750           750           -
-                        1650          1585          750
Ensemble                                       1645         1650          1585          750
DOUBLE-FLUX:
Mise au point des Modules
de formation                    Mar-95
Recyclage de formateurs par
IPN                             Jun-95
Mise en oeuvre du
programme R6g. Nktt
Nbre participants                             420
Nbre de jours                                    3
Nbre d'encadreurs                              17
Nbre h/j                                     1260
Mise en oeuvre du
programme autres r6gions
(DREF)                                                     Zone I et II   Zone II
(sauf Nktt)
Nbre de participants                                          500        610
Nbre de jours                                                   3          3
Nbre d'encadreurs                                              20         24
Nbre htj                                                     1500       1830



64                                   Annex 8
Appendix 2
Page 2 of 2
1994-95       1995-96        1996-97        1997-98        1998-99
MULTIGRADES:
Mise au point des 3/95
modules de formation par
ENI
Experimentation/Eval. 6/95
Recyclage formation 6/95
par IPN
Mise en oeuvre du
programme dans les regions
(DREF                                       Zone I         Zone 11       Zone III
Nbre de participants                        475            400           225
Nbre de jours                                 3              3              3
Nbre d'encadreurs                            19             16              9
Nbre h/j                                   1425           1200           675
SCOLARISATION DES
FILLES:
Exp6rimentation/Ev. 6/95
par IPN
Mise en oeuvre du                        Zone l(a)     Zone l(b)      Zone 11        Zone III
programme dans les regions
(DREF)
Nbre de participants                        300           300            300            300
Nbre de jours                                 3             3               3             3
Nbre d'encadreurs                            30            30              30            30
Nbre h/j                                    900           900             900           900
Total h/j                                   3585           3600           2505            900
Zone 1:       H. Chargui, H, Gharbi, Assaba, Guidimagha
Zone 11:      Gorgol, Brakna, Tagant, Trarza
Zone III:     Nouakchott, Inchiri, T. Zenmour, Adrar, Nouadhibou



65                                   Annex 9
Page 1 of 8
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(EDUCATION V)
Ternies de Reference de la Direction des Projets Education
1.                   Objectifs. Pour aider le Gouvernement a atteindre les objectifs qu'il s'est
fixe, le projet fournit a travers la Direction des Projets Education (DPE) une assistance au
Ministere du Plan pour gerer les fonds, coordonner et suivre le projet -- dont les divers e1lments
sont mis en oeuvre par les services du Ministere de ['Education Nationale ou par les agences
d'execution, telle que I'IPN et I'Universite de Nouakchott.
2.                    Fonctions.  Chargee de suivre l'execution du projet et d'evaluer des
r6sultats qualitatifs et quantitatifs, le DPE a pour fonctions specifiques de:
(a)    coordonner tous les aspects de l'execution du projet entre les divers services
officiels interesses;
(b)    veiller a ce que les coordonnateurs de chaque composante s'acquittent efficacement
de leurs fonctions;
(c)    organiser la passation des marches pour les travaux de genie civil a ['exception de
ceux dont la gestion est confiee a AMEXTIPE et suivre 1'execution physique et
financiere des travaux et celle des marches de mobilier et de materiel -- notamment
en preparant ou en aidant a preparer les dossiers d'appel d'offres, analysant les
offres, et presentant des recommandations pour ['attribution des marches, et
s'assurant que les marches sont passes conformement aux directives de l'IDA ou
des autres bailleurs de fonds;
(d)    s'assurer que les fournitures et approvisionnements achetes au titre du projet sont
livres a leurs destinations et inscrits dans le registre central des avoirs;
(e)    organiser le recrutement des specialistes et administrer les accords d'assistance
technique et les programmes de bourses d'6tudes;
(f)    suivre et contr6ler les dates d'achevement et les couits des acquisitions;
(g)    assurer le flux satisfaisant et ponctuel des fonds aux e1lments du projet;
(h)    gerer les decaissements provenant du fonds d'appui aux activites de formation;
(i)    tenir les comptes du projet selon des methodes comptables generalement acceptees;



66                                   Annex 9
Page 2 of 8
(j)    etablir les demandes de d6caissement des fonds du cr6dit de l'IDA;
(k)    assurer le versement ponctuel, par le Gouvernement, des fonds de contrepartie du
projet;
(I)    tenir les 6critures, y compris les ecritures financieres liees a 1'execution du projet;
(m)   preparer regulierement les rapports d'activite et autres rapports devant etre
presentes aux responsables des composantes des Ministtres interesses par le projet
et aux bailleurs de fonds; et
(n)    organiser la preparation des futurs projets.
3.                    Moyens.  La DPE est rattache au Ministere du Plan, dont le Directeur
assurera la supervision de ses activites. Les fonctions du DPE seront deleguees a un sous-directeur
pour le projet Education IV a plein temps, appuye par un comptable et autre personnel de soutien
approprie.



67                                   Annex 9
Page 3 of 8
Termes de Reference du
Chef du Projet Education V
4.                    Le chef du projet est responsable de la bonne gestion et coordination du
projet. A ce titre, il veille a ce que les moyens du projet soient utilises avec le maximum
d'efficacite pour atteindre les objectifs fixes en terme de resultats, conformement aux accords
pass6s avec les bailleurs de fonds. II est charge plus precisement des taches suivantes:
(a)    assurer une diffusion suffisante de la documentation relative au projet (rapports
d'evaluation, rapports d'activites, accords de credit, documents de travail,
directives des bailleurs de fonds);
(b)    preparer toute la documentation necessaire pour les examens annuels conjoints des
plans d'actions par l'administration, l'IDA et les bailleurs de fonds;
(c)    assister les responsables des composantes dans la preparation de leurs plans de
travail et de leurs budgets annuels;
(d)    controler les requetes pour un financement du Fonds d'appui aux filles (FAF) et
leur conformite au manuel des procedures;
(e)    pr6parer et mettre en execution les decisions du Comite charge d'approuver les
requetes du FAF;
(f)    coordonner tous les aspects d'ex6cution du projet et donner l'impulsion necessaire
A temps voulu;
(g)    veiller a ce que les responsables des diverses composantes assument efficacement
leurs fonctions;
(h)    superviser les composantes et les unites de gestion, de passation des marches et de
comptabilite du DPE pour que les moyens prevus sur le projet (fournitures, travaux
et services) soient d6livres selon les programmes etablis en ce qui concerne les
aspects financiers et qualitatifs, et selon les procedures acceptables;
(i)    s'assurer que les fonds de contrepartie nationale ou de co-financements soient mis
en place;
(j)    approuver les mouvements de fonds;
(k)    veiller a ce que tous les comptes du projet soient tenus selon des procedures
comptables acceptables par les bailleurs de fonds;



68                                  Annex 9
Page 4 of 8
(1)    verifier tous les documents n6cessaires pour les demandes de retrait de fonds sur
les comptes de credits, sur le fond d'appui, les fonds de roulement et comptes
sp6ciaux; et
(m)   s'assurer que toute la documentation requise sur le projet soit disponible et
transmise aux bailleurs de fonds selon leurs directives.
5.                   Oualifications reguises:
(a)    etudes superieures (formation en economie ou gestion de I'education);
(b)    experience d'au moins cinq (5) annees a un poste de respectabilite equivalente dans
des fonctions de gestion ou d'administration publique;
(c)    experience durant les cinq  (5) dernieres annees dans le domaine de la
programmation et de la gestion des ressources financieres et humaines;
(d)    une bonne connaissance du secteur d'education.
6.                   Conditions d'emiploi. Les conditions d'emploi feront l'objet d'un contrat
de deux ans renouvelables, a negocier avec le Gouvernement. Le sous-directeur pourra etre un
fonctionnaire, mais dans ce cas son contrat ne pourra pas etre finance sur le credit IDA.
(a)   Lieu d'affectation:                 Nouakchott
(b)   Duree de contrat:                   Deux ans renouvelables (avec une
duree maximum de 5 ans)
(c)   Date de prise de fonction:          Juin 1995



69                                 Annex 9
Page 5 of 8
TERMES DE REFERENCE DE L'ARCHITECTE/INGENIEUR
A. TACHES
Place sous 1'autorite du Chef de Projet d'Appui a l'Enseignement General (Education V) au
sein de la Direction de la Coordination des Projets Education-Formation, I'architecte/ingenieur est
charge de la coordination, de la supervision et du contr6le technique des operations de
construction. Ces taches se decomposent de la fagon suivante:
1. Construction de salles de classe de l'Enseignement Fondamental
Ce volet du Projet Education V, d'environ 2000 salles de classe, est execut6 par les
Collectivites locales de base (Associations de Parents d'Eleves qui regoivent du Projet une
subvention financiere en contrepartie du respect d'un ensemble de specifications techniques. Ce
progranmme est anime, supervise et contr6le sur le terrain par la Cellule Technique du Projet
composee d'une equipe de Coordinateurs Techniques Regionaux (qui a assure une prestation
analogue sur environ 1000 classes dans le Projet Education III).
Dans ce cadre, I'architecte/ingenieur assure la coordination et le suivi de l'execution du
programme telle que definie dans le Manuel de Procedures. A ce titre, il est particulierement
charge de:
-      participer a la Commission de selection des Collectivites requerantes sur la
base de la carte scolaire et des criteres d'eligibilite convenus;
-      organiser, suivre et contr6ler le travail de l'equipe de CTR de la Cellule
Technique sur la base du Manuel de Procedures;
-      effectuer des missions de supervision regulieres sur le terrain (au moins
deux semaines par trimestre);
-      assurer une coordination efficace avec le Ministere de ['Education
Nationale et le Ministere charge de I'Hydraulique;
-      preparer la documentation necessaire pour les audits techniques
periodiques tous les six mois.
2. Autres constructions
La maitrise d'ouvrage deleguee de ce volet est executee par 1'AMEXTIPE. L'architecte est
charge d'assister le Chef de Projet dans la coordination entre l'AMEXTIPE, le Ministere de
1'Education Nationale et le(s) bailleur(s) de fonds. A ce titre, il est particulierement charge de



70                                 Annex 9
Page 6 of 8
examiner les differentes phases des etudes et de preparation des dossiers
d'appel d'offres;
participer aux commissions d'attribution des marches de travaux
suivre 1'execution du programme par 1'AMEXTIPE et s'assurer que les
constructions seront livrees selon le calendrier prevu;
assurer une coordination efficace avec le Ministere de 1'Education
Nationale;
tenir a jour les differents plannings d'execution (tableaux de bord, temps et
coats);
-      participer aux commnissions de reception des travaux;
-     preparer la documentation n6cessaire pour les audits techniques
pnriodiques.
3. Acquisition d'equipements
Ce volet est execute par la Direction de la Coordination des Projets Education-Formation.
Dans ce cadre, I'architecte/ingenieur est charge, en liaison avec I'Administrateur-gestionnaire des
taches de
-      preparation des dossiers d'appel d'offres
-      participation aux travaux des Commissions des Marches;
-      preparation de la documentation necessaire pour les avis de non objection
de l'IDA;
-      reception des travaux et des equipements
-      certification des decomptes.
B. SELECTION DU CANDIDAT:
L'architecte sera recrute sur la base d'un appel a candidature.
La selection sera faite par la DCPEF sur la base du dossier presente par les candidats,
complete par un interview des trois premiers candidats. La proposition de la DCPEF sera soumise
a l'IDA pour avis de non objection.



71                                 Annex 9
Page 7 of 8
C. PROFIL RECHERCHE
Architecte/ingenieur dipl6me d'une grande ecole. Une formation particuliere ou une
experience specifique dans la planification et la coordination technique d'op6rations de construction
et 6quipements d'un volume important (depassant un million de dollars par an) sera appreciee.
D. TYPE DE CONTRAT
Le contrat est de droit prive et prevoit des conditions analogues a celles qui sont pratiquees
dans le secteur prive en Mauritanie, pour un niveau de responsabilite analogue. II sera signe par
M. le Ministre du Plan.
AVIS
D'APPEL DE CANDIDATURE
La Direction de la Coordination des Projets Education-Formation en Mauritanie se
propose de recruter un architecte/ingenieur charge de la coordination, de la supervision et du
contr6le technique des operations de construction. Ces taches se decomposent de la facon
suivante:
- supervision D'un programme d'appui aux collectivites pour la construction
d'environ 2000 salles de classe de l'Enseignement Fondamental,
- suivi d'un vaste programme de constructions realisees en entreprises par
I AMEXTIPE,
- assistance a la passation des marches d'equipement selon les procedures de la
Banque mondiale (environ 3 millions de dollars des E.U.)
Le candidat recherch6 doit avoir une solide formation d'architecte ou ingenieur en
genie-civil dans une grande ecole. Une formation particuliere ou une experience specifique
de 2 a 4 ans dans la planification et la coordination technique operations de construction
dans le secteur prive sera un critere essentiel de l1'valuation.
Le contrat sera de droit prive avec des conditions materielles alignees sur celles
pratiquees dans le secteur prive en Mauritanie, pour un niveau de responsabilite analogue.



7 2                                    Annex 9
Page 8 of 8
,-Z-- - - ; r4A  u PJ   v
L~~~~~~~
7y;w~V~'..e       wa           LAd
:,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s:
Z. 1.                                                                  Ta        /Av     .            ,
2.   ES70.'47~~~N  ~~   ~      S u   z:    err.                     o- ~'~ n -w v
U      U      W                          ACW2    L        %    7 uu
2 C        11.08  Z2.15      2. IS    25.58   *,00       1.0        I06
Z      j  11.08   22.1I5    22.1 5    25.58    4, 00     1.0        106
!~.a    ~     1                  1      1   9.8S    9. a,s              11.s 53 I d   4.00  m2         4o
ai-b~p~. 2                       1      1  18.50   18.50    18a50    22.20    4,00         1.0    :
A~~~~~..               -     1 ~~~~~~~~~~ 7,50    7.50  7.50  9.00    4,00      1.a        a3a
2 j,i31.                         J-      1258z5    2!.8!  *!5.85    31.02    4,00          1_r.       1 Z4 J 
2.I.                      -AI86.90    S.90             6.9 so    8.25    4.00      1,0         33 
Hail n                            2          I S1.00   15.00    15.00    1.Sc0     *cZZ     1.0         72Z
Acnasrt~2  -nc-t-t->iii           2      1   3.2    3.2.5    3z2.5       3.90    4,00      1.0        1CS
~ju~                              1      1    ~3.50   13.10 I3,50       1  6.i0    4,6 c   1. *   l         S'
Buruau.5;=:b 2                    t      1  1,0   29.20    29.2la    35.042   4.0a         1A.         S9
F=J L1.                                          173.65   208.38                          3:
Ci:raV.u Iis',ia                  1      1  22.15  Z2215    22.15    25.58   30.00          1.0       79 7
SwuzTU CXnzr1=-rt=                2      1   8t 7  167,50 167.50    Z .0    30,00           t,0       60
'Buruau Cir4uZ rA40i .1                   1  19,10   13,20    1S.2o       3.04   30010      10         69 1Z
.Srwaaj  ~   2j        -                  1 9.20   19.20     19,20    23.0s4   3,c00       1.0         1 t
Struawa  1                        1      1  16.00a   I,00    16,00    19.20   30,00        1.0        576
S.ai1. d.a rvn=r3                             1,00  32.95    32,95    39,54   3c, CC        1,0      r 18
Ai-cazv*s                       I16,00   16z00    1 SAO    19.23   30, CS 2c              57 
Eumau miz-i=             111 .70    8.70               8.70   I10  4.4  30.00      1.0        31i3
Sunsu :-Kasz  1  1  Z2.10    2.10  Z.10  2.2 a30,00       1,0        76
S.Lst9 I                          1       1  19.2    3,65       3,85    2,62   30,az        1.0        139
-->7^ --m-:"     1  1 s,ac   1A,co  1 ,c.a  17.28   30.0C  1.0      S7 
E.uc-i. >"                      -3      1    Ic2.00   2.00     2.00     2.40   30.00       1.0         72
Ah L             41,1                     6.C    174,0C   208.56                         66S6
6u.su  6..-i (u nz~               1      I    S.7   *.7         a.c- 100.00                 1.0      100
SJzEyaas                          1-*  1   Z,IC    2,tO         2.tC      Z.S2  3a,00a      1.0         76
C:~re                             -      1       .   ,-5.00    6,60                         1.5         50
F-rud                             -      1               .a400   14,00                      1.5 24t
2.  2.3 .:.'.
Z A  Z7V.., L:FNE-%                                                                                   7 SZ2



73                                Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(EDUCATION V)
Project Monitoring and Supervision Plan
1.1                 IDA Supervision Input. Supervision needs are described in Table 1 of this
Annex. In addition, specific tasks such as review of progress reports, terms of reference, annual
work plans, audits, and procurement and disbursement actions, are estimated to require a further 8
staff weeks of various specialist inputs per year which are not included in Table 1.
1.2           Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)    Progress Reports would be prepared by the DPE and submitted to IDA twice a
year (October and April).  They would include a summary of implementation
progress under each component, financial statements of project expenditures,
updated procurement and implementation schedules, as well as the status of
contract advertising, bidding, awards and completion dates. The DPE would
collect inputs from each responsible MEN directorate and prepare the reports.
(b)    Joint annual reviews. In April/May of each year, the DPE would organize a joint
IDA/Government review of project implementation, based on the progress report
mentioned in the paragraph above, supplemented by (i) an annual work program
for the DPE and draft budget for the next academic year; and (ii) the status of
policy and project monitoring indicators as listed in Table 2.
(c)    Mid-term Review. The DPE would carry out, not later than October 1997, a mid-
term review of progress made in carrying out the project. The review would cover
all aspects of the project, with a special focus on: (i) progress in implementing
policy measures and their impact on the staffing, cost and efficiency of the system,
including double-shifting in urban classrooms, lowering repetition in primary
schools, the recruitment of teachers, and the effectiveness of the textbook
procurement and distribution system; (ii) the effectiveness of the different
modalities of implementing the classroom construction component and the ability
of communities to finance their expected share; (iii) functioning of the pilot girls'
education and support fund programs. Based on the review, the MEN would
prepare and implement an action plan, acceptable to IDA, for further
implementation of the project. The mid-term review would be conducted with
other donors affiliated with the project and would review progress in the
implementation of their programs.
(d)    The DPE would be responsible for coordinating arrangements for IDA supervision
missions and participating in the mission with them.



74                                              Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
1.3
(e)      Project completion  report.   Within  six  months  of the  Credit closing  date, a
completion report, prepared in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA, would be transmitted to IDA.
Table 1: SUPERVISION PLAN
IDA FY &                                Activity                                     Skill             Staff
Approx. dates                                                                     Requirements          Weeks
FY 94         Preparation for and implementation of Project launch       Civil Works/Proc Spec        12
September 1995     workshop.                                                 Disbursement Officer
Educator
Economist/Project Mgr
FY 94         Supervision Mission:
Feb.-March 1996    Review progress in bid document preparation, consultant
selection and recruitment, DPE staffing and operations,   Civil Works/Proc Spec
teacher recruitment and training, preparation of programs to  Tech/Voc Educator
promote girls' access to education, FY budget allocations for    Economist/Proj Mgr.   12
school supplies, maintenance and rehabilitation.          Financial Analyst
FY 95          1st Joint Annual Review:                                  Civil Works/Proc Spec.       10
September 1996     Review progress of past year and plan for coming year     Educator
including preparation of in-service training programs for  Economist/Proj Mgr.
teachers and inspectors, procurement of goods and services,    Informal Sector Spec.
TORs for consultants, counterpart and donor programs,
budgetary allocations, and project accounting and auditing
FY 95
Feb.-March 1997    Supervision Mission                                        Same as above
10
FY 96         Mid-Term Review:                                           Economist                     9
November 1997    Comprehensive review of project inputs, operations and      Civil Works/Proc Spec
outcomes. Restructure project if necessary.               Project Management
Educator
FY 96
Feb.-March 1998    Supervision Mission                                        Same as above                9
FY 97
September 1998     3rd Joint Annual Review                                   Same as above                 9
FY 97
Feb.-March 1999    Supervision Mission                                        Same as above                9
FY 98
September 1999    4th Joint Annual Review                                    Same as above                 8
FY 98
Feb.-March 2000    Project Completion Mission                                 To be determined              8



REPUBLIQUE ISLAMIQUE DE MAURITANIE
Piolet d'Appui a rEnseign. General (Educ. IV)                                                                                     %      % Total
Components Project Cost Surunary                                         (Ougyia '000)                     (US$ '000)           FoFeigon    ase
Local      Foreign       Total      Local   Foreign    Total  Exchange  Costs
A. Acces el qualite de l'enseignernent fondanental
Construction salles de classe                                 945,865    1.072,135    2,018,000    7.567     8,577    16.144      53       42
Promotion des filles                                           116,301      89,480      205,780      930      716     1,646       43        4
Manuels scolaires                                              28,106      388,720      416,825      225     3,110    3,335       93        9
Cu(riculum el formation des mailres                            53,899      165,469      219.368      431     1,324    1,755       75        5
Subtotal Acces et qualite de l'enseignemnent fondaznental      1,144,170    1,715,803    2,859,973   9,153    13,726    22,880       60      59
B. Enseignefment secondalre
Premier cycle                                                 171.950      480.900      652,850    1,376     3,847    5,223       74       13
Second cycle                                                   24,406      153,358      177,794      195     1,227    1,422       86        4
Subtotal Enseignernent secondaire                                196,386     634,258      830,644    1,571     5,074    6,645       76       17
C. Enseignement superieur                                         50,058     165,198      215.255      400     1,322     1,722      77        4
D. Promotion du Secteur Prive                                     5,925       32,825       38,750       47      263       310       85        1                _
E. Planirication et gestion du secteur
Planification el programmatlion                                 82,728     367,506      450,234      662     2,940    3,602       82        9  
Coordination du Project                                        319,921      42.849      362,770    2,559      343      2,902       12       7
Subtotal Planification el gestion du secteur                     402,649     410.355      813.004    3,221     3.283    6,504       50       17
F. PPF                                                            37,500      56,250       93,750      300      450       750       60        2          ( U
Total BASELINE COSTS                                            1,836,688    3.014,688    4.851,376    14,694    24.118   38,811     62      100       5, C ti
Physical Contingencies                                         24,847       76,266      101,113      199      610       809       75        2        ?         1 <4
Price Contingencies                                            142,907     225,224      368,131    1,143     1.802    2,945       61        8        , 0 i;       n
Total PROJECT COSTS                                            2,004,442    3,316,179    5,320,620    16,036    26,529    42,565     62      110      'ii2   0 In
OQI3
(D {D
no
xh
I-



REPUBLJCAE ISLAMKUE DE MAURITANIE
P     oje fAppui a rErnsa    Gen. al (Educ. )          Acces t quallte de renselgnenmed
Eapendtuae Accounts by Components - Totals lnclu                 1odianenWal
(USI 000)                                                                         Cuwculukn                                              Planlricatton et gestlon du
et      Enselgnement                 Pomotlon              sedeur
Construction Promotlon            lonmatbon     aecondalim                     du      PlnUicatilon
salle de      des     Manuals      des    Prenmw  Second Enseignement Secteur             et       CoodinaUon
clause      fills     colalires   malres    cycle   cyc      superkeur     Plve   programmallon   du Prolect      PPF      Total
1. bnvestment Costs
A. Genk ClvN
Cbss pnmairs                                      10.998         -         -                                                                                              10,998
Cmslguctions Pnmae muxafs                           941          .                                                                                                    _      941
Cllege                                                      -              -           -   3.556        -            .         -                             -        -    3,556
Lp4e                                                             -                     -       -     121                          -                          -        -      121
*Uplivse                                                         -                             -        -          723         -               -             -        -      723
Au,e geni cvil                                                  --                  180        -                     -       189           1.260            617            1.696
Subltot Genle Cvil                                  11.938              -             18O   3.556      121           723       189           1.260           61         -   18.033
S. Motile
1. otpbilwpnaiie                                   1.006                   -           -       -        -            -         -              -              -16
2. MLaibe seondaue                                    -                                -     557      U                                                                      66 -  4
3. Mfiu en.                                           - -                575         42        -        -           57         -            214             13        -      900
SubMt Mobiler                                        1.006         -       575         42      557      88            57                      214             113            2.552
C. Equlwnentknlture                                    18        388        98        273      444     440           163       121            6i60            28        -    2,634
0. Vah es                                             103        50          -        357        -        -           17        17            128             51               723
E. hbeaeuWlguides de maitefondamental                   -          -     2,572                   -              -           -            -       -                      -    2.572
F. lmmelsiguidee do mad42 sac1ndie                      -                    -           -     742     8l-                                                              -    1.553           _
H Consultits
ConsaianlcaMa                                       578        134         -         -                              53                                   1,095             i.86O
CMeULnll                                               -      432        240        512        -      48           384                     1,104           192        -    2912
Oeesein&agmuiSpn                                      -          -         -         26      608      20           130                       42              6              831
0U dlon manls scoLas                                  -          -       200                                         -                         -             -        .      200
SubtowConsuRants                                      5         568        440        S38      608      68i         567          -           1.146         1.293        -    5.803
L Fmu.ton
Fcrmalin local.                                       -         20         7        324               45             -                       60             30        -      485
Formiaon a rangw                                      -        56         20         82        -        -          164         -             32             32               386
Suta Fortallon                                          -         78        27        406               45           164                       92             62              871
J. ituwvenl   pi                                                480          -           -                -                                      -                      -      480
ILPP                                                    -          -         -           -                                       ---                                 750       750
Totajl  dst_ntCosts                                  13.644      1.561     3.711       1,795   5,907    1.572        1.691       327           3.500         1.514     750   35.972
IL Phetrrnt Costs
A.Couadede,ctimmaneud                                 747        132         -           -       -        -          90          -            256          1.111        -    2.336
B. Salakee                                          3.813                    -           -       -        -            -         -                          444        -    4.257
Total Recurrent Costs                                 4,55        132          -           -       -        -          90          -            256          1,555             6.593
Total PROJECTCOSTS                                    18.203     1.693      3.711      1,795   5.907    1.572        1.781       327           3.756         3.069      750   42,565
Forelgn Eane                                        9,745       732      3,480       1,360   4.366    1.353        1,362       277          3,050           353      450   26,529
0 a
h-tn



REPUBLIQUE ISLAMIQUE DE MAURITANIE
Picoet dAppui a rEnseign. General (Educ. IV)                                                                        %     % Total
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Sunary                   (Ougyla '00)                       (US$ '000)         Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign      Total      Local   Foreign    Todal  Exchange  Costs
L Investment Costs
A. Genie Civil
CLassesprmaires                                298,025      894.075    1,192,100   2,384    7,153    9,537        75      25
Conslructaons prnmae auxlaes                    28,000       84.000     112,000      224      672       896       75       2
Cdoges                                          95,000      285,000     380.000      760    2,280    3.040        75       8
Lycees                                           3,250        9,750      13,000       26       78       104       75        -
Unihsie                                         21,525       64,575      86,100      172      517       689       75       2
Autire geie cil                                  41,766       159,798   201,564      334    1,278    1,613        79       4
SubtotalGenieCivil                                487,S60    1,497,198    1,964,764    3,901    11,978   15,878     75      41
B. MtobIlier
1. Mobwerpnnaire                                34,320       80,080     114,400      275      641       915       70       2
2. Mobilier secondare                            21,250      51.250      72,500      170       410      580       71        1
3. Mtbilm aire                                   10,409      93,677     104,085       83       749      833       90        2
Subtotal Mobilier                                 65,979      225,007     290,985      528    1,800    2,328        77       6
C. Equpemenlournilure                             54,838      249,456     304.294      439    1,996    2,434        82       6
0. Ve1hAlS                                             -       85,000      85,000        -      680       680      100       2
E. Manuelu/uldes de maire fnda,ental                   -      281,350     281,350        -    2,251    2,251       100       6
F. Mmnuulsiguides de mnakre s rcodaWe              9,375      165,475     174,850       75    1,324    1,399        95       4
HL Consulants
Consulants locaux                              232,550            -     232,550     1,860        -    1.860        -       5
Consulaants rl                                    1,500     362,500     364,000       12    2,900    2,912       100       8
DeinllngeSpn                                    71,645       32,276     103,921      573      258       831       31       2
Dibuban manurs scelaires                        19,968        4,992      24,960      160       40       200       20       1
Subtol ConsuLants                                325,663      399,768     725,431    2,605    3,198    5,803        55      15
L Formation
Fomonb loce                                     58,842        1,820      60,662      471       15       485        3       1
Foan aton a rutwger                               1,375      48,85       48,240       1 1     375       386       97       1
Subtoal Fomation                                  80,217       48,685     108,902      482      389      871        45       2
J. I_tenns  pilotes                               60,000            -      60,000      480         -      480        -       I
K PPF                                             37.50        56,250      93,750      300      450       750       60       2
Tot lnvestmn tCosts                               1,101,138    3,008,188    4,109,326  8,809   24,066   32,875        73      85
IL Recuffent Cods
A. Coui de flncon tie                            256,550        6,500     263,050    2,052       52    2,104         2       5
B. Sres                                          479,000                  479,000    3,832         -    3,832        -      10
Total Recuent Costs                                735,550        6500      742,050    5,884       52    5,936         1      15
Toal BASELINE COSTS                               1,838,68    3,014,088    4,851,378    14,694   24,118   38,811      62      100
Physical Contingenclie                            24,847       76,266     101,113      199      610      809        75       2
Prire Co rc_qwwms                                142,9D7      225,224     368,131    1 143    1,802    2,945        61       8
Toal PROJECT COSTS                                2,004,442    3,316,179    5,320,620    16,038   26,529   42,565     62      110
OQ J
M eD
0
n
Ul1



REPUBUQUE ISLAMIQUE DE MAURITANIE
Pgoit cAppli a rErsesgn. General (Educ. IV)
Procurenent Accouits by Fnancers                                                                                                        Local
(US$ 00)                                   The Government  Cnwnunaules            IDA             Olher            Total        For.    (Excl.  Duties &
Anourd    %    Amoun    %        Amount    %    Amount   %    Amount    %_  Exch.   Taxes)   Taxes
A. Genie Civi
Cla   prnires                                 0       -   3,299    30.0    7,696    70.0        -       -   10,998    25.8    8,220    2.778
Coalkuct    prnaire auaire                    -       -        -       -      941   100.0       -              941      2.2   ,,706       235
Colso                                         0       -                -    3.556   100.0       -             3,556     8.4   2;654       801        -
Lyc                                           0                -              121   100.0       -       -      121      0.3      90        30
Un bwai-y                                     -                               723   100.0       -       -      723      1.7     542       181
Au                                            0        -       -       -    1,696   1000        -        -              4.0    1.344      351
SubiaGenieClvil                                 0       - . 3,299    18.3   14,734    81.7        -       -   18.033    42.4   13,556    4.477
B. Mobillr
1. LabdPrumare                                0       -       -        -    1,006   100.0       -       -    1,006      2.4     701      305
2. McbiswrwAndaie                             0       -        -       -      646   100.0       -              646      1.5     454       192
3. M  1obiw aare                              0                               9-  -  -  59   1000  -    -      959      2.3     862        97
Subko  Maobilier                                0       -        -       -    2,610   100.0       - .    -    2,610       6.1    2,017      593
C. Equ__nmntilouJriwes                          0       -        -       -    2,576   100.0       -             2,57q     6.1    2.102      474
O. Vhmd                                         -       -       -        -      723   100.0       -       -      723      1.7     723         -        -
E. Lres bibliaheque                             -                               348   100.0       -              348      0.8     260        88
F. MnwkLgddms de maitrelond t                   -       -        -       -    2,572   100.0       -             2,572     6.0    2,572
G. Manu_Ad/Idemile cmaitre  c-                          -        -       -    1,204   100.0                     1,204     2.8    1,204        -                  c
H. Consaiants
Consajwds boca                                -                             1,872   100.0       -       -    1,872      4.4        -    1,872
Co rns sinfl nn                                                            2,912   100.0       -       -    2,912      6.8    2.900       12
DessangSpn                                    -       -        -       -      831  . 100.0      -       -      831      2.0     258       573
Dkltrbion maues scotaires                     -       -        -       -      200   100.0       -              200      0.5      40       160        -
SubttalConsutants                               -       -        -       -    5,815   100.0                     5,815    13.7    3,198    2,617        7
L For%alon
Fannabca                                      -       -        -       -      474   100.0       -       -      474      1.1      15       459-
Fanndion a reana                              -                               386   100.0                      386      0.9     375        11
Subtoal Fonnalon                                -       -       -        -     860   100.0        -       -      860      2.0     389       470
J.kdmwiaspit -Ir_ p                                                            480   100.0                       480      1.1        -      480
K Cad   l      wonctinnwnA                      0               -        -    2,336   100.0       -       -    2,336      5.5      57    2,279
L. Salmes                                   4,257   100.0       -        --                                     4,257    10.0        -    4,257
M. PPF                                          -       -       -        -     750   1000         -       -      750      1.8     450       300
Toal                             ,           4,257    10.0   3,299     7.8   35,009    82.2        -       -   42,565   100.0   26,529   16,036
MQ M
ZDX
x
4.
0.



REPUDLUQUE ISLAMIQUE DE MAURITANIE
Proei crAppu a rEnejn. Geiwal (Educ. IV)
Expenditure Accounts by Financier&                                                                                                      Local
(USS 000)                                    The Government  Communautes           IDA            Other            Total        For.   (Excl.  Duties &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount    %    Amount   %    Amount    %              Exch.   Taxes)   Taxes
L Investwent Costs
A. Genie Civil
Clases prirmares                              0            3,299    30.0    7,698    70.0      -       -   10,998    25.8   8,220    2,778
Cd suuc*JonsprimnaW.lr ires                                            -     941   100.0       -       -      941     2.2 <-706        235
Colaes                                        0                             3,558   100.0                   3,556     8.4    2.654      901        -
Lycee 0                                                       -      -      121   100.0       -       -      121     0.3      90       30         -
Unwver-                                                -       -      -      723   100.0                      723     1.7     542       181
Aulte gubia ci,i                              0        -       -            1,69    100.0      .            1,696     4 0    1,344     351   .
Subtobta Gn  Civil         .                    0            3,299    18.3   14,734    81.7      -       -   18,033    42.4   13,556    4,477
IL Mobiller
1. Mobierw prnoe                              0               -             1,006   100.0      -            1,006     2.4     701      305
2. obiliwsecondaire                           0                              646   100.0               .      646     1.5     454       192
3. Mobiier aute                               0        -              -      900   100 0       -       -      900     2.1     810       91
Subtobt Mobtlier                                0       -       -       -    2,552   100.0       -       -    2,552     6.0    1,965     587
C. Equlerne loumnitute                          0               -        -    2,634   100.0      -            2,634     6.2   2,154      480
D. Vhiculs                                      -       -       -       -      723   100.0       -       -      7,3     1.7     723         -        -
E. Maius.udes de mate tond                       -      -       -       -    2,572   100.0       -       -    2,572     6.0   2,572         -        -
F. ManuLsuides demailresecondeie                 -      -        -      -    1,553   100.0       -       -    1,553     3.6    1,465      88         -
K. Consultants
Conmulnas lrcaux                               -                       -    1,560   100.0      -       -    1,860     4.4        -    1,860
Ceiwulants hiti                                .       -       -      -    2,912   100.0       -       -    2,912     6.8    2,900       12
DesseInilngujvSpn                              -      -       -       -      831   100.0       -             831      2.0     258      573         -
DiUbun manuesckAaies                          -       -       _       _      200   100.0       -       -      200     0.5      40       160
Subtotal Consultants                                -       -           -    5,803   100.0       -       -    5,803    13.6   3,198    2.605
1 Fonnatlon
Fomn loca                                      -      -       -       -      485   100.0       -              485     1.1      15      471
Fonmalion a ranp                              -                              386   100.0       -             386      0 9     375       11
SubklA Fotnntlon                                        -                      871   100.0       -       -     871      2.0     389      482
J. bvslOke5                                     -       -       -       -      480   100.0       -       -     480      1.1        -     480         -
K  m           .                                -       -       -       -      750   100.0       -       -     750      1.8     450      300        -
ToWhwelehrtCosts                                  0           3,2W      9.2   32,673    90.8       -       -   35,972    84.5  26,472    9,500        -
L Recurrent Coets
A. CouiAde alnchandiam d                        0       -                    2,336   100.0       -       -    2,336    .55       57    2.279        -
B. Salire                                   4,257   100.0               -        -       -       -       -    4257    10.0        -    4,257        -
ToalRParent Costs                             4,257    64.6                    2336    35.4        -            6,593    15.5      57    8,536
Toal Dlsusment                                 4,257    10.0  3,299      7.6   35,009    82.2      -           42,565   100.0  26,529   16,036
o-n 
00
x
rio _
Lu



80                                        Annex 12
Page 1 of 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
EDUCATION V
Prior Review Threshold
Contract Profile By Value/Number
Range of Contract Values      Estimated Value (no.) of    Cumulative Value (no.) above   Percentage of Total Value (no.)
(incl. Contingencies)     Contracts within each Range           Threshold                   above Threshold
(US$ thousands)               (US$ millions)                (US$ millions)
(1)                           (2)                           (3)                           (4)
GOODS
Value         Number          Value         Number          Value         Number
500 and above           3.2             (6)            3.2            (6)           31%          (11 %)
250 to 499           3.0           (10)            6.2           (16)           61%           (30%)
150 to 249           1.6            (8             7.8           (24)           76%           (44%)
50 to 149           2.1           (20)            9.9           (44)           97%           (81%)
0 to 49           0.3           (10)           10.2           (54)          100%          (100%)
Duration of procurement is about five years.
WORKS (Excluding primary classroom construction)
Value         Number          Value         Number          Value         Number
500andabove             0.8             (1)            0.8            (1)           11%           (3%)
250 to 499           3.4           (I 1)           4.2            (12)          60%           (39)%
150 to 249           1.8           (10)            6.0           (22)           86%           (71%)
50 to 149           0.7             (5)           6.7           (27)           96%           (87%)
0 to 49           0.3            (4)            7.0           (31)          100%          (100%)
Duration of procurement is about five years.
Note:      Threshold selection corresponds to a desirable percentage coverage of contract value: (around 76%
for goods and 60% for works).



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(EDUCATION V)
Disbursement Profile
Disburaement PoflsFPro  CID Debowsmenta
Disbur6ements/             Profhb/
D e ouffsen4s              Pri                       100%                   |v-   General Education Project  a  Regional Sector Profile
IDA lisca yaa,                       ]               AOional
and quint.,.    By Ouarter  Curulative   Credit    Sector                90%
Annees                                          Socteu a
bu.get aks 104 of                                    I'ech/            I                                                                                                                                            00
OrYnestres  _    tA destre  Cum ubtit    ciedat ,wguOnae                                                                             58%
(tUSI nuilIon  tlS$ mrlio    (%1     (%1             t
1996        1              1.0       10        3%           0%         &   70%
2             1.0       2.0        6%          1%
3             1.5       3.5       10%          3%                 0%
s.o         4              1.!       5.0       1 4%         4%dO 
1997       1              1.6       6.1      19%           6%
2             1.6       8.2      23%           8%              50%
3             1.6      1o0       29%          11%
a.    8      4             1.6      11.8      34%          14%              40%  -
1998         1             1.6      13.6      39%          16%
2             1.6      15.4      44%          22% 
3             1.6      17.2      49%          26%              30%
7.3         4              1.0      19.1      66%          30%
1999        1              1.9      21.0      60%         35%               20%
2             1.6      22.6      a6%          40%
3             1.       24.6      70%         46%          5     o
7.3         4              1.8      26.4      76%          50%          )   10%
2000         1             1.6      27.9      80%         5                                         _5%
2             1.5      29.4      84%          59%               0%                                  i                       I   I   i
3             1.5      30.9      86%          64%                   vC                  rs                  tO                   n         
6.0            32 "I      :3 %        68%                    cn~~~~~~0           01                 01                  CD
6.0         4              1.5      324       93%          66%                   01                  01                  01                  0)
2001         1             1.4      33.8      97%         73%                    --                                                          _                                      r.
2.6         2              1.2      35.0     100%          78%                                                              Fiscal Year IExerdce)
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~I
oq  :3
OQ m
o  L-i
OtlS
I-



82                                Annex 14
Page 1 of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(EDUCATION V)
Key Documents in the Project File/
Selection de documents dans le dossier du projet
1.    Note Pr6paratoire: Projet Education V - Projet d'Appui a I'Enseignement General;
Promotion de la scolarisation f6minine
2.    Compte rendu de mission atelier sur l'education des filles au Sahel, mai 1994,
Washington, DC
3.    Journ6es de reflexion sur la revalorisation de la profession enseignante Rapport de
synthese, septembre 1993, Mauritanie
4.    Journees de reflexion sur la revalorisation de la profession enseignante Pour une
revalorisation de la profession enseignante, septembre 1993, Mauritanie
5.    Journees de reflexion sur la revalorisation de la profession enseignante: Politiques et
strategies du ministere de I'education nationale : Bilans et perspectives, septembre
1993, Mauritanie
6.    Constat de rentree 1993-1994, Mauritanie
7.    Systeme de gestion des ressources humaines et materielles: Etude de conception et
d'organisation, premiere partie, conception et planification de la solution retenue,
Agence tunisienne de cooperation technique (ATCT), mars 1994, Mauritanie
8.    Systeme de gestion des ressources humaines et materielles: Etude de conception et
d'organisation, deuxieme partie, conception et planification de la solution retenue,
Agence tunisienne de cooperation technique (ATCT), mars 1994
9.    Systeme de gestion des ressources humaines et materielles: Synthese des activites,
avril 1994 (ATCT)
10.   Horaires specifiques aux classes multigrades, aout 1994, Mauritanie
11.   Renforcement des capacites des structures de planification et de gestion en matiere
d'alphabetisation et a l'enseignement originel, juin 1994, Mauritanie
12.   Lettre No. 000154/MEN/DEF sur la construction DREF et IDEF, juin 1994,
Mauritanie
13.   Quantification des actions, mars 1994, Mauritanie
14.   Formation initiale ENI, mars 1994, Mauritanie



83                                  Annex 14
Page 2 of 3
15.    Formation au benefice des ENI et harmonisation des differents plans de formation,
mars 1994, Mauritanie
16.    Formation des directeurs d'ecole, mars 1994, Mauritanie
17.    Formation des maitres formateurs, mars 1994, Mauritanie
17.    Formation continue des instituteurs, juin 1994, Mauritanie
19.    Formation continue des inspecteurs, juin 1994, Mauritanie
20.    Referentiel de formation des inspecteurs de l'enseignement fondamental, mai 1994,
Mauritanie
21.    Ebauche d'un referentiel pour une formation modulaire des professeurs des ENI, mai
1994, Mauritanie
22.    Un plan d'action de formation pour le volet d'enseignement fondamental, mai 1994,
Mauritanie
23.    Document relatif A la progranimation et aux incidences de la formation initiale et
continue des professeurs de college, mai 1994, Mauritanie
24.    Mise en place de l'informatisation de la gestion du personnel, Mauritanie
25.    Composante DEF: Renforcement de: la Direction centrale de l1enseignement
fondamental; les Directions regionales de l'enseignement fondamental; les Inspections
departementales de l'enseignement fondamental
26.    Horaires de l'enseignement fondamental, 1991, Mauritanie
27.    Aide-memoire: enseignement prive, enseignement professionnel, Mauritanie
28.    Lettre no 00227/MP/M: Demande d'une avance pour la preparation d'un projet
d'appui A l'enseignement general.
29.    Enseignement Fondamental: Programmes de frangais, filiere arabe et filiere bilingue,
1989, Mauritanie
30.    Projet de restructuration du secteur education; I.D.A. Preparation du projet Education
IV, Travaux des commissions de reflexion, mise A jour le 26 juin 1993, Mauritanie
31.    Projet d'assistance technique pour le renforcement des systemes nationaux
d'information statistique pour l'education (SISED) dans l'Afrique subsaharienne, Plan
d'actions, janvier 1993, Mauritanie
32.    Prograrrmme d'actions 1994 relatif aux projets g6res par le Bureau de coordination des
projets. decembre 1993



84                                  Annex 14
Page 3 of 3
33.    Referentiel de 1'elve-instituteur, mars 1994, Mauritanie
34.    Composante DEF: Pr6paration du projet Education IV
35.    La distribution des manuels scolaires dans le systeme educatif Mauritanien: Situation
actuelle et perspectives de developpement
36.    Projet Education III: Enseignement Fondamental - Experimentation multigrade et
double flux - Rapport de mission, SODETEG 1993
37.    Version provisoire de la deuxieme partie de l'etude Profil de Pauvrete en Mauritanie
38.    Evaluation du systeme educatif mauritanien - Enseignement fondamental, Ministere de
la cooperation et du developpement, 1993, France
39.    Le systeme educatif mauritanien: Bilan et perspectives, juillet 1993, Centre
International d'Etudes Pedagogiques (CIEP)
40.    Evaluation du systeme educatif II - Enseignement secondaire: Evaluation des acquis
des eleves 3eme annee, Rapport, mars 1993, CIEP
41.    Situation de rentree 93-94 - Suivi du personnel et animation socio-educative
42.    Modele de simulation du systeme educatif mauritanien - Version provisoire, decembre
1993, Mauritanie
43.    Note portant e1lments de justification de l'appui a l'inspection de l'enseignement
fondamental, mai 1994, Mauritanie
44.    Evaluation statistique des classes-test en Mauritanie - Annee scolaire 1992-1993.



IBRD 26343
.4n^5pfi3-  \N        V-            i                      MAURITANIA
>                        ~~~MAURITANIE
CANARY ISLANDS                                         ,W ,;,2, ,,1i  \x  ,,;;>t-.   L                  GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(Spo7in)                                            t~qu'z    ,L                       4 t' ~Kier  J  fPROJET D'APPUI A  L'ENSEIGNEMENT
SE2e(7-~    -'t / Thun vJ    -  '         HGENERAL
-h_GOmeA\~,7> jj}r~  N>~                  ~                   ~  55 (EDUCATION  V
_-_ -MOROCCO  4                                                                           EDUCATION V
PRKORITY CLASSROOM CONSTRUCTION REGIONS
ALGERIA                         REGIONS PRIORITAIRES POUR LA CONSTRUCrION
DES SALLES DE CLA5SE
I N.                                    A *    PROFESSIONAL LYCEE
  5o lI 5o   200 25O                                                                                                      L LYCEE / COLLEGE D'ENSEIGNEMENT PROFESSIONNEL (LCEP)
KILO.ETERS                                                          J
r A   \   ^ COMMERCIAL LYCEE
,.          /i                                                            YCEE COMMERCIAL (LCo)
FORMER                                                        - ,  _                       HIGHER INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
SPANISH                       -- \  xfi,>CENTRE SUPERIEUR D'ENSEIGNEMENr TECHNIUE (CSET)
SAHARA          { (          ,                          z 
SAHARA                                            -,                        S ~~~~~rRI  yTRAINING RESOURCE CENTER
-2--                                                   !    t       X    rlr.s             ---s---i               24t              CENTRE DE RESSOSURCESET DE SUIVI (CRES)
_    i-           ZEMMOUR                      s                       0      VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND UPGRADING CENTER
CENTRE DE FORMATION ET PERFECTIONNEMENT
PROFESSIONNELLE (CFPR)
I------rcl ____~---    ,' /-'-/-3                                        PROFESSIONAL TECHNICAL COLLEGE
COLLEGE D'ENSEIGNEMENT TECHNIQUE (CETJ
3 /-, / 'PROFESSIONAL COLLEGE
COLLEGE D'ENSEIGNEMENT PROFESSIONNEL (CEP)
J  mm    oo   g _ /   //    /   @   MALI  +  NATIONAL MARITIME TRAINING SCHOOL
ECOLE NATIONALE D'ENSEIGNEMENT MARITIME ET
DE PECHE (ENEMP)
bch"g-,    ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~    I0                           REGIONAL VOCATIONAL TRAINING CENTERS
NOUADHIOU    INChIRI    KU 'T               A   0   R   A   R                    H /                                    CENTRE REGIONAL CE FORMATION POFESSIONNEUE ICFPR)
/   x Xr  S /  ECH                    PAVED ROADS
ROUTES REVETURES
7   \  /  X nDJIK JA   nch,l                                 _ CHARGUI   .  GRAVEL ROADS
T7 ><   AS  rA G A N r ,' S  /  \       lROUTES EN GRAWER
NOUAICI1OTA  t                   /                                                                                      TRACKS
NOUA.C;07 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.PI5TE5
*$ 5            0UtilsRZAl /                                                                                           =<ngoriFug 41*r( o} / \ i , , RAILROADS
CHEMIN DE FER
m  /    -7RAKNA    K    J  XJoneh KKOI    &      S                              r      AIRFIELDS
REGION CAPITALS
. x SZ -D I  HODH | ECH > I CAPIT ALES REGIONALES
KARDI AAbo.o S  ,        GHARBI 5 < ,' t        L               !                ti7   CNATIONAL CAPITALS
W  S, L-                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAPITA LES
______ _-REGION BOUNDARIES
GU/ 'MAKAw                                                                         U /-    -  L/MITES REGIONALES
I<...*)S  BIAB'-       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
DAKAR  '-1JEv                                                                         FRONTIERES NATIONALES
DAKAR93             SENEGAL                    Y                                   MALI                                __-   INDICATES THE TERRITORY OF THE FORMER SPANISH SAHARA
(WESTERN SAHARA)
SENEGAL                                                                       INDIQUE LE TERRITOIRE DE LANCIEN SAHARA ESPAGNOL
(SAHARA OCCIDENTAL)
CCTrOER 199Et












