                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 27290

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-27060 PPFI-P8730)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 23.8 MILLION (US$ 35.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                              THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA

                                                 FOR A

                                 GENERAL EDUCATION V PROJECT




                                           December 18, 2003




Human Developpement II
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective November 24, 2003)

                                        Currency Unit = OUGUIYA (UM)
                                            257.54UM = US$ 1
                                           US$ 0.0038 = 1 UM

                                               FISCAL YEAR
                                         January 1     December 1

                                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMEXTIPE   Mauritania Executing Agency                   Agence mauritanienne d'Exécution des
                                                         Travaux d'Intérêt Public pour l'Emploi
ASSEP      Association of Private Schools                Association des Ecoles Privées
BIEF       Education & Labor Enginnering                 Bureau d'Ingénierie en Education et Emploi
           Consulting Firm
CNE        National Evaluation Unit                      Cellule Nationale d'Evaluation
CTR        Regional Technical Committee                  Comité Technique Régional
DEF        Directorate of Basic Education                Direction de l'Enseignement Fondamental
DES        Directorate of Secondary Education            Durection de l'Enseignement Secondaire
DO         Development Objectives                        Objectifs de Développement
DP         Directorate of Personnel                      Direction du Personnel
DPC        Directorate of Planning & Cooperation         Direction de la Planification et de laCoopér.
DPE        Directoate of Educaation Projects             Direction des Projets Education
DREF       Regional Directorate of National Education    Direction Régionale de l'Enseign.Fondamental
ESDP       Education Sector Development Program          Programme de Dév. du Secteur de l'Education
EFA        Education for All                             Enseignement Universel
ENI        Secondary School Teachers' Training Institute Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs
ESW        Economic Sector Work                          Rapport Economique Sectoriel
GIRM       Gov. of the Islamic Republic of Mauretania    Gouv. de la Rép. Islamique de Mauritanie
GIS        Geograpbical Information System               Système d'information géographique
HIPIC      Highly Indebted Poor Countries                Pays Pauvres Très Endettés
IEC        Information, Education and Communication      Information, Education et Communication
IIEP       Intl. Institute of Education Planning         Institut Intl. de la Planification de l'Education
IPN        National Pedagogic Institute                  Institut Pédagogique National
IREDU      Development in Education Research Institute   Institut de Recherches en Ed.& Dév. Univer.,
ITA        International Technical Assistance            Assistance technique internationale
MDGs       Millenium Development Goals                   Objectifs de Développement du Millénaire
MEN        National Education Ministry                   Ministère de l'Education Nationale
NS INTER   Nouvelles Solidarités Intl. (Canadian NGO)    Nouvelles Solidarités Intl. (ONG Canadienne)
ONS        National Statistics Office                    Office National de la Statistique
PNDSE      Natl. Dev. Program of the Education Sector    Programme Natl. de Dév. du Secteur de l'Educ.
SSA        Sub-Saharan Africa                            Afrique au Sud du Sahara


                                      Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
                                    Country Director     A. David Craig
                                     Sector Manager      Alexandre Abrantes
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager              Cherif Diallo

                                        MAURITANIA
                                GENERAL EDUCATION V


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
Annex 8. Government Completion Report                                            34
Annex 9. Map                                                                     40

Project ID: P001857                                                  Project Name: GENERAL EDUCATION V
Team Leader: Cherif Diallo                                           TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 23, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: GENERAL EDUCATION V                                      L/C/TF Number: IDA-27060; PPFI-P8730
   Country/Department: MAURITANIA                                                         Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (53%); Central government administration
                            (19%); Secondary education (17%); Tertiary education (10%);
                            General education sector (1%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Gender
                            (P); Law reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/21/1993                                     Effective: 08/22/1995                08/22/1995
     Appraisal: 07/14/1994                                         MTR: 06/18/1998                  06/18/1998
      Approval: 04/18/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 03/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF MAURITANIA/MIN OF EDUCATION
                      Other Partners:      N/A

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Kim Jaycox
Country Director:               A. David Craig                                 Jean-Louis Sarbib
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Ok Pannenborg
Team Leader at ICR:             Mercy Tembon                                   Rosemary Bellew
ICR Primary Author:             Cherif Diallo


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

         The US$35 million IDA Credit was designed to assist the Government of Mauritania to implement
its education sector development program for the period 1993-2000, which aimed at : (i) boosting the gross
primary enrollment ratio from an estimated 77 percent in 1994-95 to 100 percent by 2000; (ii) doubling the
intake into lower secondary schools; (iii) improving the quality of education at all levels; and (iv) improving
the efficiency of resource mobilization and use in the sector. The key performance indicators were
integrated into the Government Letter of Sector Policy and are in Annex 1.

         The main objectives of the project were clear and essential for achieving the Government's overall
goal for the education sector. They were relevant and responsive to identified key sector issues at the time,
in accordance with the policy framework outlined in the Government Letter of Education Development
Policy. Project activities were based on the Government's priorities; therefore, the economic rational
underpinning the project was coherent with national realities. The project was consistent with the
Government's priority on human resources development, as outlined in the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy discussed on March 8, 1994. It responded to both Borrower's and Bank's demands for greater
attention to human resources development as a complement to macroeconomic reform, continued striving to
reduce poverty, promoted private-sector-led-growth, improved economic management and capacity
building in core Government services. The objective was to make the design of the education operation and
the macroeconomic reform mutually reinforcing. Its policy measures and associated investment program
were developed through extensive dialogue with the Mauritanian authorities, based on pre-investment
studies carried out before project appraisal.

         Even though development objectives were consistent with country needs and sector priorities, the
objective to provide access to primary education for all school-age children in a timely manner from
1994/1995 to year 1999/2000 was ambitious (see para 4.1.1).

         While the institutional framework in Mauritania appeared well understood by the World Bank
through project preparation, so were the country's shortcomings and lack of capacity. The project included
activities to build capacity in administrative divisions at central and local levels as well as technical
assistance to transfer skills to the Ministry of National Education (MEN) to effectively address some of its
most apparent institutional weaknesses.

         With regards to risk, three moderate risks of failure to achieve project goals were identified during
appraisal. The first risk was related to project management. For civil works components, this management
risk was addressed by transferring responsibility for implementing infrastructure construction for lower
secondary school construction from the Ministry to Amextipe (Mauritanian Executing Agency) and
communities themselves for primary school construction (see Section 3.3.1 below). Second, the risks
associated with the execution of innovative programs proposed under the project (in particular those geared
towards boosting girls' participation, and in-service teacher training) were addressed by detailed planning,
careful monitoring and annual reviews of progress. Third, it was thought that institutional and management
capacities might take longer than five years to improve. To mitigate this risk, a continued process of
capacity-building was initiated under the ongoing education project (Cr. 1943-MAU) with the expectation
that additional support would need to be provided under future projects.

3.2 Revised Objective:
         Not applicable.




                                                      - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:

          To achieve the original objectives, the project set out five components as detailed below. All
amounts indicated include Government's and community's contributions.

3.3.1 Expand Access to and Improve the Quality of Primary Education (US$25.4 million): This
component aimed at supporting the first Government's objectives to boost gross primary enrollment ratio
from an estimated 77 percent in 1994-95 to 100 percent by 2000, and to improve the quality and efficiency
of primary education through: (i) the construction of 1,430 new classrooms mostly in six educationally
underserved regions to raise the enrollment ratios in these regions from 60-70 percent to 80 percent and in
the high-growth peri-urban areas of Nouakchott to increase the enrollment slightly from 88 to 90 percent of
the school-aged population over the life of the project; (ii) special measures to boost girls' participation;
(iii) the development and distribution of textbooks and teachers' guides; and (iv) curricula development and
teacher training.

          The design of this component was directly related to the achievement of the first and third
development objectives, i.e. expanding access to and improving the quality of primary education. Priority
for school construction was given to the most disadvantaged regions and peri-urban areas to reduce the
geographical inequity. The main aspect in the design of this component was to transfer responsibility for
school construction from the Ministry to communities themselves, limiting the Government's role to
oversight and quality control; this strategy was tested during the ongoing education project (Cr.
1943-MAU). This transfer is the continuation of best practice of the Education III Project (see related
ICR). Accordingly, responsibility for managing the construction program (20 collèges of six classrooms
each) including site supervision and quality control and procurement of equipment and furniture was
delegated to Amextipe, under contract to the MEN, following procedures acceptable to IDA, while in
primary education, the management of community-assisted classroom construction was coordinated by the
Direction des Projets Education et Formation (DPE) and implemented by three Regional Technical Teams
(CTR). The CTRs were responsible for community mobilization, training local artisans and supervising
construction work. Implementation of special measures to boost girls' participation was directly linked to
the first development objective. It is a key incentive to impact on the parents' willingness to send their girls
to school in order to address the gender issue.

          The provision of books and teachers' guides as well as teachers' training were in line with the third
objective, which was the best way to improve quality in the education system. This ensures that school
children have access to pedagogical materials and that teachers know how to use these materials adequately
and efficiently. Overall, this component was essential in reaching the first and the third development
objectives of the project.

3.3.2     Increase Access to and Improve the Quality of Secondary Education (US$7.3 million): This
component aimed at increasing student intake into lower-secondary education (collège) from 9,000 in
1994/1995 to about 18,000 in 1999/2000, maintaining upper-secondary enrollments at current levels and
improving the content and quality of both lower and upper-secondary education (lycée) through: (i) a
construction program of 120 middle school classrooms (a maximum of 20 schools) and auxiliary facilities;
and (ii) improving the quality of science and language teaching.




                                                     - 3 -

          Planned activities were: (a) improving access to lower-secondary schools by building 20
classrooms (totaling 6,000 places); (b) improving instruction in core subjects (mathematics, science and
language) by providing 235,000 textbooks; 7,000 teachers' guides for collège students and 123,000
textbooks; 9,500 teachers, 30 science kits for lycée and by training 400 secondary teachers, 20 school
libraries and the provision of an initial stock of textbooks. These activities were well defined and aimed at
supporting the second development objective as it sought to ensure expanding access to and improving
quality of secondary education.

3.3.3     Improve the Quality and Management of Higher Education (US$1.8 million): This component
aimed at: (i) increasing the availability of learning materials and improving management in the short-run;
and (ii) supporting the preparation of a long-term development plan. The planned activities at           the
University of Nouakchott (UoN) were: (a) construction and/or renovation and equipment of academic
facilities and administrative offices of the faculty of arts and science; (b) rehabilitation and equipment of
the administrative offices of the rectorat; (c) provision of training to administrative staff and library
personnel, and staff responsible for developing the university restructuring plan; and (d) preparing a
long-term development plan for higher education.

          The objective of this component was to provide support for a new policy framework and
institutional capacity to help the Government reconfigure and streamline higher education in Mauritania.
The focus was to improve the quality and relevance of teaching at the UoN in the short-run and prepare a
master plan for higher education to guide the system's development. This component was correctly
designed and created conditions favorable to improving the quality and management of teaching and
resources use in the higher education sub-sector, thus leading to the achievement of the third and fourth
objectives.

3.3.4     Promote Private-Sector Provision of Education (US$0.3 million): This component supported the
Government's policy of increasing the private education sector provision by 10 percent of total enrollment
by 1999/2000 through: (i) modifying the existing legal framework to facilitate expansion; and (ii)
expanding opportunities for pre- and in-service teacher training of private school teachers. This component
aimed at: (a) enabling the private sector to have access to public land, obtain exoneration from customs
duties on imports of educational materials and supplies, and permit the retroceding of public schools to the
private sector; (b) providing access to Government-run pre-service and in-service training for teachers
employed under the private school system; and (c) establishing an office in the MEN to deal with private
school issues. The project also financed the construction and the equipment of a small pedagogical center
run by an association of private schools (Association des Ecoles privées-ASSEP).

          Improving access to education in Mauritania calls for the removal of barriers to the development of
the private education sector. A larger and more dynamic private sector can usually contribute to the
expansion of schooling. This component was within the Government's economic development policy to
promote private-sector-led growth.

3.3.5     Strengthen Sector Planning, Management and Resource Use (US$6.9 million): This component
was intended to: (a) strengthen education planning and management at all levels, particularly of personnel;
and (b) support pre-investment studies and project management and coordination:

          (a) Strengthen Education Planning, Management: This subcomponent aimed at strengthening
MEN's planning and management capacities by: (i) improving personnel management and removing excess
staff; (ii) conducting an audit of the MEN's structure and operation, and preparing and implementing a



                                                      - 4 -

reorganization program; (iii) supporting the decentralization of education management; and (iv)
strengthening the MEN directorates responsible for education planning, program management, research and
evaluation.

        This subcomponent was to contribute in building capacity in MEN's operational services,
personnel (DP), planning (DPC), personnel (DP), and the National Pedagogical Institute (IPN) to plan and
manage staff and resources rationally. These services can play a key role in the management of the over all
education system, if they have the capacity to produce key reliable and up-to-date education data and
financial information that can be used by managers and policy makers alike. Capacity was to be built at
the central and the local levels to allow for gradual devolution of management and administrative tasks.
Sector planning and personnel management are essential to achieve development objectives efficiently
within budgetary limits. This component was sound and essential to improve resources use in the system
and supported the achievement of the fourth development objective of the project.

        (b) Supporting project management and coordination. This subcomponent aimed at supporting
the directorate of education and training projects (Direction des Projets Education et Formation, DPEF)
of the Ministry of Plan, responsible for coordination and financial management of education and training
projects. This component financed: (i) the rehabilitation of offices and the provision of furniture, equipment
and vehicles; (ii) five full time consultants; (iii) 22 months of consultant services; (iv) 20 months of
training; and (v) operating costs for the project unit.

3.4 Revised Components:
        Not applicable.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

        Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory, because the project objective was clearly aligned with the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals at the time of appraisal and with the experience from earlier
projects in the sector of World Bank funding for education in Mauritania. The first two projects (Cr.
459-MAU, 1974-1983; Cr. 1214-MAU, 1982-1980) mainly financed vocational and maritime training,
teacher training and strengthening of planning capacities. The third operation (Cr. 1943-MAU, 1988-1995)
as supported the expansion of primary education (Cr. 2521-MAU, 1993-1998), as well as technical
education and vocational training. The relatively good results led to a free-standing General Education V
Project.

        The design of the project under review was sound to the extent that: (i) project objectives
responded to country needs and sector priorities; (ii) the project was consistent with the Government's
human resources development strategy; (iii) policy reforms were generally addressed up front; (iv) project
documentation was generally thorough with the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) containing a comprehensive
analysis of sector issues, lessons learned and major risks; (v) the project was built on lessons learned
through more that fifteen years of the World Bank funding for education in Mauritania; and (vi) a strong
complementary and integration with other donors' interventions in the education sector was sought during
project preparation and maintained during implementation.

        Project preparation was carried out by MEN staff, under the guidance of a project preparation
committee (PPC) composed of representatives of various units directly associated with the project. The
work of the PPC was financially supported by the ongoing project and through an advance from the project
preparation facility (PPF). Stakeholders' participation was embedded in several aspects of project
components and sub-components. The commitment of the Government and stakeholders was significant, as



                                                      - 5 -

a result of several seminars in which senior local authorities and stakeholders evaluated the impact of the
performance of policy measures introduced under the project. (community classroom construction,
multigrade teaching, improving girls' participation and textbook availability). The detailed working papers
that were prepared for all project components and the extensive dialogue with the Mauritanian authorities
had a direct impact on the poor and disadvantaged regions. Close contact was maintained with other
donors, in particular the Coopération Française, whose support for the education sector was taken into
consideration in the design of the project under review. The specific development objective of the project
was realistic, and alternative scenarios were analyzed.

         The SAR documented the project and the sector background particularly well. The SAR rightly
stressed that emphasis in primary education, particularly in rural areas, had been shown elsewhere to be
one of the most effective ways of tackling poverty issues. Likewise, the utmost need to sharply decrease
and then progressively eliminate gender gap and rural versus urban disparities in school enrollment became
a transversal issue in the SAR.

         Project design was technically sound, and implementation arrangements for procurement and
financial management were adequate. The choice of lending instrument used was appropriate, and there
was an adequate link between risk and sensitivity analyses.

         The institutional framework for project implementation by a project coordinating unit (PCU) was
based on the experience of the Directorate of Education and Training Project (Direction des Projets
Education et Formation, DPEF) in the Ministry of Development and Economic Affairs. The DPEF, which
was established in 1978 as a directorate of the Ministry of Plan to coordinate the implementation of all
donor-financed education and training project, provides professional and logistic support to the ministries
responsible for education and training projects. Therefore, despite the MEN's claim to host the PCU, the
Bank agreed with the Government's proposal to keep the current PCU in the Ministry of Economic Affairs
and Development (MAED), in view of the MEN's weak management capacity, and the satisfactory past
performance of the current set-up. This set-up was actually successful in maintaining freedom from
political interference (particularly for the school building program), but did not fully support the
capacity-building program to improve MEN's management capacity.

         Adequate arrangements were put in place for monitoring and evaluating progress in achieving
sectoral development objectives through clearly specified and measurable outcome and impact targets. The
SAR included a detailed list of 36 outcome and output indicators to be monitored. The link between
indicators and main project development objectives was well established both with outcome, output, and
input targets. Regarding the quality of primary education, the SAR included a set of indicators such as
rates for drop-outs, repetitions and transitions from primary to lower-secondary levels. The targets of 4
percent repetition and 2 percent drop-out rates in year 2000 were based on the assumption that better
trained teachers, adequate supply of textbooks, and improved school management would foster learning and
reduce repetition and drop-out. However, during project implementation, a major linguistic policy change
was introduced in the education system which impacted negatively the progress made in reducing repetition
and drop-out rates (see para 4.1.3). In addition, it is important to stress that there is a trade-off between
increasing access to and improving the quality of primary education, and that the impact of quality inputs
takes time to mature. Therefore, it is too early to evaluate the improvement of the quality of education.




                                                     - 6 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

         Overall achievement of the outcome objectives of the project was satisfactory (see Annex I for key
indicators). The project effectively contributed to improving access to primary education and to
lower-secondary education; enhancing quality of education and use of resources at all levels of education
as well as strengthening planning and management of the sector. As a result, the General Education V
Project actively contributed to the development of human capital resource which plays a key role in the
economic development and in poverty alleviation in Mauritania. A more detailed assessment of each
outcome objective follows.

4.1.1 Boost gross primary enrollment ratio from an estimated 77 percent in 1994/95 to 100 percent by
2000: Satisfactory: The project effectively contributed to providing access to primary education during the
implementation period, and gross enrollment rate (GER) reached 88.7 percent in 2001/2002 and 91.7 in
2002/2003. Total enrollment in primary education rose from 279,627 to 433,840 students, as compared to
the target of 440,000 students. It should be noted that, during project preparation, the demographic data
and forecasts provided by the Office National de la Statistique (ONS) underestimated the school-age
population (The 1965 census had suggested that population growth rate was at 1.7 percent between 1965
and 1977). This resulted in inaccurate projections and made the target of 100 percent look possible by year
2000. After the mid-term review, a new census data indicated that the school-age population was larger
than earlier projected (population growth had been estimated at 2.9 percent between 1977 and 1988). This
suggests that the enrollment target of 100 percent could not have been reached during the life of the project.
The achieved GER of 91.7 percent is based on adjusted current demographic data. However, if the
school-age population data used during project preparation had been applied to the 433,840 students, the
GER would had been 98 percent which is reasonably close to the target. In addition, providing access to
primary education for all school-age children when almost 92 percent GER is reached, would have meant
first covering the remaining most difficult and less populated areas, and then addressing the issues of
children with specific education needs, which were not included in the project. Although, the quantitative
target was not formally revised, it is our opinion that the project had performed satisfactorily.
Furthermore, the total enrollment for first grade was spectacular. The initial target of 64,000 students was
surpassed by 30.5 percent points, reaching 83,512 students in 2002/2003 and leading to a 110 percent
gross admission rate to first grade.

4.1.2 Double intake into lower-secondary school: Satisfactory: Set targets were exceeded, student intake
into lower-secondary education (collège) rose from 9,367 students in 1994/95 to 19,232 students in
2002/2003, higher than the targeted 18,000 students. As a result, total enrollment in lower-secondary
increased from 26,042 students in 1994/1995 to 56,972 students in 2002/2003 over the targeted number of
50,000 students. The transition rate from primary level to lower-secondary level increased from 33 percent
in 1994/1995 to 64 percent in 2002/2003.

4.1.3 Improving the quality of education at all levels of education: Satisfactory:
         (a) Quality at Primary Education: The quality of education in Mauritania did not deteriorate
during project implementation despite a sharp increase in enrollment, as had been the case in some
countries in the region. Improvement in proxy indicators such as textbooks, pedagogical materials, trained
teachers and class size, all point to the fact that improvement in the learning climate had been achieved. At
the start of the project, there was no capacity in students' learning achievements. The Project created this



                                                      - 7 -

capacity, and there is now a baseline data for the future. The retention rate increased from 55 to 56.9
percent between 1996/1999 and 2000/2001. The success rate for primary education certificate (Certificat
d'Etudes Primaires Elémentaires: CEPE) rose from 32.48 percent in 1992/1993 to 45.06 percent in
2002/2003. The transition rate from primary to lower-secondary increased from 33 to 64 percent. The
repetition rates that averaged 16 percent in grades 1 to 5 (1992/1993) and 34 percent in grade 6 declined to
13.4 percent in 2000/2001 and to 25.2 percent respectively.

         Even if the targets of 4 percent for repetition and 2 percent for drop-out were not reached, it is our
opinion that the performance remains satisfactory as compared with rates in other countries. The average
repetition for primary education in Mauritania of about 14 percent suggests that the country is on its way
to achieving the indicative EFA/TA target of 10 percent. However, the following two elements affected the
repetition and drop-out rates. First, through law number 99-012 of April 26, 1999, the GIRM decided to
undertake a broad-based reform which introduced, among others, major changes in the language of
instruction. This reform was not designed in the project, and, therefore, no remedies were planned ahead.
Prior to the reform, Mauritania had three parallel education streams using respectively Arabic, French and
national languages (Pular, Soninke and Wolof). The reform called for the merging of these different
streams into a bilingual one, where Arabic and French are the languages of instruction. Despite the major
disruption and short-term logistical and technical problems generated by this reform, it was supported by
IDA as well as all major donors, on the basis of its potential to facilitate Mauritania's integration into the
global economy and to facilitate the import and use of scientific and technical knowledge. The ongoing IDA
Credit, the Programme National de Développement du Secteur de l'Education (PNDSE), devotes
important resources to teachers retraining to create a critical mass of teachers who are proficient in both
Arabic and French. Nevertheless, in the first years of the reform, the insufficient number of bilingual
teachers was a determining factor in the project's inability to reach its objectives aimed at reducing
repetition and drop-out rates.

         Moreover, additional ESW undertaken in 1999 suggested that there was a correlation between
drop-out rate and the supply of schools with a complete primary cycle. Although schools exist in virtually
every village, they often do not offer a complete cycle (see map in the last Annex). Since 2001, an
important effort to complete the pedagogical cycle of all schools has been deployed and, in conjunction with
the provision of adequate teaching material, it is expected to induce a major reduction of drop-out rates
and an improvement of completion rates.

         (b) Quality of Secondary Education: The end-lower-secondary examination success rate (Brevet
d'Enseignement) rose from 30 percent in 19994/1995 to 46.4 percent in 2002/2003. Repetition rates
begun recently to bounce back (from 15.94 to 14.17 percent between 2001/2002 and 2002/2003 for
lower-secondary and from 18.63 to 16.93 percent for upper-secondary.

4.1.4 Improve the efficiency of resource mobilization and use in the sector: Satisfactory:
         (a) Primary education: To successfully improve the use of both physical and human resources in
primary school, the policy measures implemented were multigrade teaching in rural areas and double-shift
in urban areas as foreseen in the project design. As a result, the number of multigrade classrooms rose from
379 in 1994/1995 to 6,060 in 2002/2003 in rural areas, which represents more than its anticipated target
of 1,447 classrooms for an estimated number of students at 303,000. The number of double-shift
classrooms increased from 106 classrooms in 1994/1995 to 714 in 2002/2003 in urban areas without
reaching the objective of 829 classrooms as double-shift teaching had a negative impact on student learning
for an estimated number students of 35,700 (see Section 4.3). Given the limited resources for increased
demand in public education, about half of these children would not have been educated in the absence of
such measures.




                                                      - 8 -

         In addition, the Government promoted the private-sector provision of education by creating a
structure in charge of private education in MEN, updating the legal framework, and building and equipping
a private education resource center. These measures contributed to the increase of the number of private
classrooms from 60 in 1994 to about 400 in 1999/2003, and the share of private enrollment in total
primary enrollment which rose from 1.4 percent in 1994 to the targeted level of 8 percent by 2002/2003.

         (b) Secondary education: To improve the use of resources at the secondary education level, the
Government rationalized the use of human and physical resources by: (i) increasing secondary teacher
utilization rates which rose from 84 percent in 1994/1995 to 87 percent in 2002/2003; (ii) increasing
average time teaching from 18 to 23 hours per week; (iii) training in more than one subject; and (iv)
removing 250 teachers from administrative posts and redeploying them to schools for teaching purposes as
well as redeploying teachers with lower teaching hours from the upper- to the lower-secondary level.

         (c) Efficient use of Public Expenditure: As shown in Annex 1, the proportion of public
expenditure devoted to education as a percentage of Government budget increased significantly during
project implementation, as it went up from 21 percent in 1995 to 28 percent in 2003. Examining the
allocation of public expenditures within the education sector between 1995 and 2003, it is clear that: (i) the
primary school level benefited from favorable arbitrage since its proportion of current expenditures
increased from 42 percent to 56 percent over the period; (ii) this raise in the primary level was largely
obtained at the expense of other sub-sectors (higher and vocational education), as expenses for higher and
vocational training were reduced from 25 percent in 1995 to 11 percent in 2003 through the reduction of
students' subsidies; and (iii) the proportion of funds allocated to the secondary education level increased
slightly, as it went up from 32 percent in 1995 to 33 percent in 2003 (see Annex 1).

4.2 Outputs by components:


         All five components achieved and/or exceeded their output targets equivalent to 100 percent of
total project financing.




                                                    - 9 -

4.2.1 Expand Access to and Improve the Quality of Primary Education (US$25.4 million): Highly
Satisfactory: The project substantially exceeded its goals of expanding access to primary education and
improving the quality of primary education.

         (a) Financing Community-based Primary Classroom Construction (US$18.2 million):                    The
overall output of this subcomponent was highly satisfactory. The component produced more than its
anticipated outputs under IDA financing, with the construction of 1,430 classrooms. The project far
exceeded its output target for the construction of new classrooms: as a result of the devaluation of the
national currency in 1996, the General Education V Project supported the building of 2,230 classrooms
instead of the 1,430 originally planned in 7 regions (instead of the 6 regions initially targeted) considered as
disadvantaged in terms of education (see the output indicators in Annex 1). About 85,000 additional
students places were created. In terms of equity, the aim of providing sufficient capacity to raise enrollment
ratio in underserved regions from 60-70 percent in 1994/95 to 80 percent in 1999/2000 was reached. GER
in underserved regions (Gorgol, Assaba, Brakna, Hodh El Charbi, Hodh El Gharbi and Guidimagha)
increased from 64 percent in 1994/95 to 93 percent in 2002/03, leading to a significant reduction in
disparities between regions. It is important to report that, in 1994, only three regions had reached 100
percent intake rate (Inchiri, Tiris-Zemmour and Nouadhibou), and that, at the end of the project, three more
regions had reached 100 percent intake rate (Adrar, Tagant, and Nouakchott); furthermore, the number of
regions reaching 100 percent intake rate had doubled. This component also included important auxiliary
buildings (offices, stores and latrines). In terms of offices, the project built 181 offices instead of the 163
originally planned. Communities were fully responsible for carrying out the school construction program in
rural areas according to organizational arrangements similar to the IDA-financed Credit 1943-MAU, with
a country-wide uniform subsidy level of 70 percent by the project and 30 percent of beneficiary
contribution. The demand-driven community-based approach generated high community ownership on
schools and boosted demand. According to the technical audit of construction under the project, 95 percent
of the constructions by communities are rated "good" and "satisfactory" on the basis of a standard 25 years
durability criterion; 4 percent are rated "poor" and 1 percent "bad," requiring a complementary program.

         (b) Special Measures to boost girls' participation (US$1.7 million): The implementation of
special measures to boost girls' participation produced satisfactory results. Girlsr GER rose from 70
percent in 1994/1995 to 92.7 percent in 2002/2003. Their share in total primary school enrollment
increased from 45 percent in 1994/95 to 49,2 percent in 2002/03, against a target of 48 percent. For
post-primary education, the female share of admissions to lower-secondary increased from 38 percent to
44.8 percent (versus the target of 43 percent), and the female share in total lower-secondary enrollment
increased from 37 percent to 43 percent as compared to the 40 percent target. All planned activities were
implemented, and more than 10 information, education and communication (IEC) campaigns were held. In
addition, girls' retention in school was advocated to promote continuation from primary to secondary
school. Furthermore, five regional wilayas (Hodh El Gharbi, Hodh El Chargui, Gorgol, Guidimaka and
Brakna), where girls' enrollment was lagging the furthest behind that of boys, benefited from 227 pilot
interventions out of the 300 planned. As a result, gender gap in education is rapidly closing; access to
grade 1 is similar for both boys and girls, and is actually higher in rural than in urban areas. In 7 out of the
13 regions registered, girls' GER is higher than the national GER, and for six of them even above 100
percent.

         (c) Improving the Development and Provision of Textbooks (US$3.7 million): This subcomponent
is rated highly satisfactory. It succeeded in the areas of textbook development, production, distribution, and
capacity building, as well as in textbook publishing. In primary education, the project produced and
distributed about 3,050,000 textbooks and about 250,000 teachers' guides, far more than the one million
textbooks and 75,000 teachers' guides planned at appraisal. Selling at low-cost did not function as planned,



                                                     - 10 -

since many students, mainly in rural areas and among the poor, could not afford them. The distribution of
textbooks was not efficient, and textbooks were found on the market at a very high cost. To improve access
to textbooks to all students, and following discussions between the Bank and the Government, it was
decided to increase the supply of textbooks, to use more efficient distribution channel and to provide
textbooks free of charge to students. The project also helped in the distribution of textbooks, built storage
facilities all over the country (entrepôts régionaux), and managers of libraries were trained in textbooks
management. Consequently, all primary schools currently offer one textbook to two students, for the main
subject matters, as opposed to one to five in 1994/1995.

         (d) Improving Curricula and Teacher Training (US$1.8 million): The overall output of this
subcomponent is satisfactory. As planned, the project built the capacity of IPN's specialized Evaluation
Unit (Cellule Nationale d'Evaluation - CNE) to assess student learning outcomes in primary education,
gender bias, textbooks, teachers' guides in language and mathematics, and revise weak or problematic
materials as well as introduce revised teaching programs. An important international technical assistance
(ITA) was funded to train CNE staff and to support them in carrying out the assessments of student
achievement outcomes as well as of related studies. CNE developed a database of test items based upon a
careful study of the primary school curriculum. As a result, the assessment of student learning outcomes
was conducted successfully by the CNE, and new curricula for primary education and teacher training
colleges were developed and tested. In addition, yearly surveys on student acquisition were undertaken. IPN
was twinned with two external institutions: NS Inter and IREDU, which are specialized, respectively, in
curriculum development and evaluation. Study tours were organized, and logistical support was provided to
IPN. The project supported the development and implementation of training modules for teaching
double-shift and multigrade classes and improving girls' education. More than 2,363 teachers were trained
(42 percent more than planned) on how to use the new curricula in multigrade and double-shift classroom
teaching as well as on how to promote girls' education. As priority was given to curricula development as
well as to evaluation and teacher training, activities related to health and environmental issues were less
successful.

4.2.2 Expand Access to and Improve the Quality of Secondary Education (US$7.3 million): Highly
Satisfactory:

         (a) Expanding Access to lower-secondary Education (US$5.0 million): Highly satisfactory: The
project planned to finance building, furnishing and equipping of 20 colleges six classrooms (totaling 6,000
places) in small urban centers lacking similar facilities. Construction would include administrative offices,
water supplies, sanitary facilities and fencing. By project closing date, 30 secondary schools were
constructed, equipped and furnished (totaling 9,000 places), including the planned administrative offices,
water supplies, sanitary facilities and fencing. As regulatory measures to keep the number of new students
in upper-secondary at 5,000 per year were not part of the project, the number of students admitted in
upper-secondary reached 9,918 per year. However, this will not harm the education system, as more
teachers are required to expand the primary education level. Moreover, this will put pressure on higher
education down the road.

         (b) Improving Instruction in Core Subjects (US$2.3 million): Highly Satisfactory: The overall
achievement of this subcomponent was exceeded: (i) In lower-secondary (collège), 255,000 textbooks
instead of 235,000 textbooks, including languages, mathematics and science, and 7,050 teacher's guides
were distributed, representing more than the targeted number of 7,000 teacher's guides; in addition, 100
teachers benefited from in-service training (these 100 teachers were not targeted by the project). The new
30 collèges built under the project were equipped with libraries as well as with the initial stock of 22,985
textbooks; (ii) at the upper-secondary level(lycée), the project provided 45 science kits as well as spares



                                                    - 11 -

part and consumables for 40 kits to all secondary schools nationwide. In addition, 143,000 textbooks were
distributed. About 457, more than 400 upper-secondary science teachers, and teachers in training colleges
were trained in science as well as on how to use the science kit; 20 libraries were rehabilitated in existing
lycées, and an initial stock of 5,670 schools were supplied as planned. In addition to the original objective,
the project financed the connection to internet for five lycées and provided a teaching classroom for use of
the internet in each of the lycées.

4.2.3 Improve the Quality and Management of Higher Education (US$1.8 million): Satisfactory: The
overall output of this component was satisfactory, with most of its major anticipated outputs having been
produced. The academic and administrative facilities of the faculty of arts and science were built, and old
buildings were rehabilitated and furnished. Learning materials were available, and administrative offices of
the rectorat were rehabilitated. Academic programs were renovated, and academic infrastructures were put
in place as well as the policy to contain cost and students flow. The communications system INTERNET
was installed and focused on both internal and external communications. The staff of the Cellule de
pilotage as well as the administrative staff and library personnel were trained. As a result, a study on
higher education was completed, and the Government prepared a long-term development strategy and a
short-term plan of action for the sub-sector: both of them are based on the findings from the study which
led to the preparation of the ESDP higher education component in terms of quality improvement and of its
linkage to skills market needs.

4.2.4 Promote Private-Sector Provision of Education (US$0.3 million): Satisfactory: Regarding the
private education sector, the project achieved its output satisfactorily. Indeed, a new legal framework is in
place with an extremely high level of stakeholder awareness and acceptance, garnered through both national
consultations and institutional strategic-planning exercises. The legal framework authorized private schools
to have access to public land and obtain exoneration from custom duties on imported educational materials
and supplies; furthermore, the retroceding of public schools to the private sector was updated. Exoneration
from customs duties on imported educational materials and supplies is being applied, and the Government
provided an office in the Ministry of Education within the new organizational structure to cater to the needs
of private education. However, the shortage of classrooms in the public sector did not allow the
Government to retrocede public classrooms to the private sector. The construction of the private education
resource center was completed, and the center is equipped and operational.

4.2.5 Strengthen Sector Planning, Management and Resource use (US$6.9 million): Satisfactory:
         (a) Strengthening Education Planning and Management (US$ 3.8 million): All activities planned
under this sub-component were achieved (planning, budgeting, statistics, costs and financing of education
system). The objective to reinforce the Ministry of Education's capacity to rationally plan and manage staff
and resources was achieved. Activities aimed at improving personnel management and removing excess
staff were implemented successfully. An audit of the Ministry of Education's structure and operations was
conducted. A new organigramme of the MEN was prepared and adopted by the Government in 1999, and
is currently under implementation. Senior staff of the MEN were trained, while technical assistance and
logistical support for the MEN directorates of planning and Cooperation (DPC), Directorate of personnel
(DP) and to Institut National de Pédagogie (IPN) was provided (see Section 4.2.1, para. c) .

         By the end of the project, all sectoral studies planned under the project were carried out and found
useful in laying the foundation; and providing a knowledge-base for the sector. Thanks to the project,
yearly surveys on student learning would be undertaken, and a report on school program performance
would be also available. For school mapping, a contract between the Direction of Planning and the
International Institute of Education Planning (IIEP) was signed and implemented. Technicians were trained



                                                     - 12 -

to undertake school mapping and to use the Geographical Information System (GIS) for education
planning. Computerized data collection and analysis systems were put into place at the Ministry and in
each of the institutions, including hardware, software and in-service training. The result was the annual
production of a statistical yearbook containing relevant data on education, including not only statistics on
enrollment, but also on finance. Information systems in other administrative offices were installed, and
staff were trained to use them in support of both the financial and managerial objectives of the institutions.

          The project supported a program to decentralize the education management functions to regional
and departmental levels by financing the construction and equipment of offices for 7 regional inspectorates
(DREFs) and 10 departmental inspectorates (IDEFs) as well as the equipment and logistical support to the
directorates of primary education (DEF), secondary education (DES), personnel (DP), planning (DPC),
and IPN. Working conditions in the DREFs and IDEFs improved substantially, office equipment
(computers) was acquired, and regional and departmental staff were trained on how to use these computers.
In terms of human resources management, staff were redeployed.

          (b) Supporting project management and coordination (US$3.1 million): Satisfactory: Project
management and coordination were adequate. The project rehabilitated the Direction des Projects
Education (DPE) offices, and provided: (i) furniture, equipment and vehicles; (ii) fees for five senior DPE
staff; (iii) 22 months of consultant services, including a financial auditor and technical backstopping to the
construction coordinator; (iv) 20 months of training in procurement and disbursement for DPE staff; and
(v) operating costs for the DPE, including office equipment, consumables and maintenance.

          Staff were adequately trained on procurement and disbursement issues. Vehicles, office equipment,
furniture, supplies and other operating costs, including fees for the project manager, accounts clerk,
administrative secretary and junior support staff were paid for. Thus, the administrative and financial
management of the project unit was satisfactory, and project audits were up-to-date.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

          No attempt was made at appraisal to estimate net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return
(ERR); thus, there is no baseline against which to compare current estimates.

          The sector study conducted in May 2000 under the project financing (Le système éducatif
Mauritanien: éléments d'analyse pour instruire des politiques nouvelles) carried a number of
cost-effectiveness analyses that justify some of the policy measures implemented by the project. The report
of the study is in the file of the ongoing project. Annex 3 presents the benefits of the project.

          Analyzing the effect of class-size, student-teacher ratio, single/multigrade teaching and
double-shift, it appears that: (i) double-shift has a significant negative impact on the success rate of the
Primary Education Certificate; consequently, the project slowed down the implementation of double-shift
teaching, while the size and significance of multigrade teaching coefficient seem to indicate that this type
of school organization has no noticeable impact on school performance; (ii) both large class-sizes and
student-teacher ratios are associated to lower school performance. Finally, the examination of teaching and
learning material and school environment shows that the availability of more than 4 teaching and learning
materials have a positive effect on the results on the Primary Education Certificate. Many of these findings
support the strategies and policies on which General Education V was based, particularly the emphasis on
the provision of textbooks, in-service teachers' training, multigrade teaching, etc.




                                                      - 13 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:

         No financial rate of return was computed in the SAR. However, the question arises as to whether
the country has the capacity to continue financing the recurrent costs required to maintain activities and
investments in the sector. To this end, the Government of Mauritania prepared its 10-year education
program based on the simulation of key sets of policies and on the macro-economic framework. Available
public finance and recurrent cost needs are calculated based on 1998 key indicators data, a projection of
these indicators and the policy objectives for 2010.

         Following is a summary of the main results of the simulation and sensitivity analysis. The
Government scenario was based on the macro-financial framework and its projection and policy objective.
Sensitivity analysis was conducted with two different assumptions for key indicators. First, on the financial
side, sensitivity was analyzed with regards to the annual GDP growth rate and the percentage of education
budget in the public finance. The balance estimated is negligible, approximatively 140 million UM, i.e. less
than 1 percent of the Government revenue. In the second scenario with the GDP annual growth rate of 5
percent, the balance between revenue and the current cost would increase to 497 million UM (3 percent of
revenue).

         As the current annual GDP growth rate is estimated at 5.4 percent, one can conclude that the
country has the capacity to continue to finance the recurrent cost required to maintain activities in the
education sector.

         In addition to the commitment of the Government to increase the budget allocation to the education
sector (see Annexes 1 and 2), it is reasonable to expect a significant increase in total expenditure on
education, within the context of the EFA-FTI. The Government prepared a proposal to accelerate the
implementation of its national program in order to achieve education-related millennium development goals
by 2015. The proposal focuses on critical areas that will make such acceleration possible. These include:
(i) increasing the supply of school places (classrooms); (ii) strengthening decentralized educational
capacities (support to regional directorates of education for pedagogic and administrative management);
and (iii) increasing incentive measures to benefit the poorest communities (school feeding program).

         The proposal has benchmarked its cost parameters against those in the indicative framework. The
steps followed in estimating the financing gap for EFA-FTI funding include the following: (a) simulating
the total cost of achieving gender equity and universal primary completion by 2015 using the parameters of
the indicative framework; (b) projecting the country's own contribution towards the goal of EFA by 2015;
(c) compiling the external financing already committed by donors for primary education; and (d)
calculating the net financing gap for 2003-2008. The total financing gap for the next three years (2003 ­
2005) is estimated at US$ 23.7 million.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

         Moderate: The project contributed to improving the Ministry's capacity to manage, implement and
coordinate its program and staff. At the central level, some of the ministry's operational services were
directly responsible for implementing project activities. Their staff participated in training financed by the
project. For instance, the Direction de la Planification et de la Coopération (DPC), Direction du
Personnel (DP), the pedagogical institute and secondary education (DES), were adequately reinforced with
equipment, training and technical assistance.



                                                     - 14 -

         Thanks to the project, school construction by local communities is becoming a tradition in
Mauritania, and parents' associations are being more involved in school management. The implementation
of this program contributed substantially to developing the institutional capacity of the Ministry's Regional
Directorate of Education. Staff in these offices were trained, and working conditions were considerably
improved. All this contributed to making these services more effective and respond better to the demand for
schooling.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

There were no major factors that affected the implementation of the project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

          Through the life of the project, the Government implemented policy measures and was very keen
on ensuring a successful and timely implementation; it also provided counterpart funds for the project as
required. The management of contracts for the construction, equipment and furniture of 20 colleges was
contracted out to Amextipe, an Agency built in Mauritania on the Agetip model (see Section 3.1).
However, important delays occurred, mainly due to the following reasons:

         (a) Changes in the allocation of land needed for school construction impeded implementation.
These changes were often required as Governors allocated original sites to other beneficiaries. Land
management is the responsibility of the central Government despite decentralization regulations in place.
The lack of clear responsibility in land allocation made it difficult to secure school construction sites; as a
result, delays occurred in work execution.

         (b) Amextipe went through a difficult period and was slow to adapt its organization and redeploy
its staff to meet the challenges of an increased volume of activities. It first resisted the use of intermittent
consultants to reinforce its capacity during peak workloads as well as the recruitment of a quality control
engineer to help control quality and train both Amextipe staff and private consulting firms to improve the
quality of the studies and supervision. Cooperation between Amextipe and Project Unit was not always
good, with Bank supervision teams intervening very often to help solve conflicts; and

         (c) Amextipe is only contracting out studies, works, and supervision and had to rely on local firms,
given the size of investments. Both construction and engineering companies in Mauritania are small, lack
professionalism and have intermittent activities as well as a very weak financial standing and low turnover.
To remedy this situation, Amextipe earmarked some funds for the training of private consulting and
construction companies. These remedies were not commensurate with the extent of the problem with
respect to quality of works, and were only partially implemented.

         In answer to the later two weaknesses, corrective actions have since been implemented. Additional
staff were recruited, and Amextipe is currently benefiting from a long-term technical assistance program
aimed at improving the quality of its works and removing the main bottlenecks in the Mauritanian
construction industry (financed under Cr. 3574-MAU - Urban Development Program).

         As a consequence of these delays, part G - Civil Works was extended by 20 months to allow for a
full implementation of the classroom construction, equipment and furniture.



                                                     - 15 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

         The project benefited from the good performance of the project coordination unit, particularly in
the areas of financial management and procurement capacity. The 1996 audit signaled a problem related to
the mismanagement of some operating expenses under the Project Special Account. At that time, the
Government, on its own initiative, requested the freezing of the Special Account until completion of the
audits for 1997 and the first half of 1998. During that period, the PCU took appropriate remedies to keep
the project implementation going by: (i) using direct payments to suppliers; (ii) pre-financing project
operating costs by counterpart funds; and (iii) repaying funds which had been declared ineligible by the
Government. By June 1999, funds had been fully reimbursed; as a result, the disbursement freeze on the
Special Account was lifted, and implementation proceeded smoothly afterwards.

         The fact that the education and training directorate (DPE) responsible for the implementation of the
project was in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development did not allow development of
institutional capacity in terms of project management (see Section 3.5). By implementing a project and
taking full responsibility for it, operational services from the Ministry of Education built up their
institutional capacity. It is also important that the project's financial management system was integrated
into the regular accounting system of the sector, thus being in line with preparing the sector to a budgetary
support intervention. Experience suggests that improved ownership and more effective capacity-building
occur when implementation responsibilities are vested in the concerned ministerial departments (MEN)
rather than in a project implementation unit (PIU) in MAED. While there may have been some advantages
on the financial management side of the project, they do not outweigh developing ownership and
implementation capacity in the directorates (planning, primary education, secondary education, etc) which
benefit directly from the Credit proceeds. The capacity of line directorates is an important pre-condition for
programmatic lending, so Mauritania should work toward implementing the transfer of responsibilities
from MAED to the Education sector directorates within an agreed time-frame, identifying training needs,
with support from the Bank sector staff.

5.4 Costs and financing:


         The cost of the project was estimated at US$ 42.6 million. The IDA Credit financed US$ 35
million of total costs; Government and communities should have financed respectively US$ 3.3 million and
US$ 4.3 million. The project was implemented between August 22, 1995 and March 31, 2003. At
completion, 100 percent of IDA funds had been disbursed, while Government and communities had
contributed US$ 4.2 million (27 percent above of what had been planned) and US$ 5.3 million (23 percent
above what had been planned) respectively. The Government and communities' contribution increased to
cover the 20 months extension granted and the cost of additional classrooms construction by communities.
Two partial extensions for a period of 20 months were granted (Part G, civil Works) for categories 2 - 4-B
and 7-B of the project in order to allow the Government to complete civil works related to additional
classroom constructions and to provide equipment and furniture (see Section 5.2).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

         Prospects for the sustainability of project achievements are rated "likely" for several reasons. The
first one is the financial strategy of the education sector. The main feature of this strategy is that it favors
public investments in basic education while controlling the access to post-basic education and encouraging
cost-sharing with beneficiaries and private sector. Between 1995 and 2003: (i) the education budget in



                                                     - 16 -

percentage of the national budget increased from 21 to 28 percent (Mauritania assigned priority to basic
education, especially after reaching the completion point under the enhanced HIPC Initiative in 1999, and
reduced spending on higher education); and (ii) the primary school level benefited from favorable
reallocations and saw its portion increased from 42 percent to 56 percent. In addition, the Government
plans to continue its effort until all recurrent expenditures are financed by national resources, while
investment expenditures will continue to be shared by international financing partners, domestic partners,
particularly communities and private sector (see Annexes 1 and 3). These wise choices place Mauritania
among the SSA countries which are most likely to reach the education MDGs.

         Second, this project contributed substantially to the strengthening of the financial and institutional
foundations of the sector, through relevant and rational policies that were successfully implemented and
then institutionalized. The first of these policies concerns the classroom construction program, which is
based on community participation which was developed during project implementation. Classroom
construction is one of the most expensive investment items associated with the development of education.
Community participation contributed to significantly reduce unit costs and improve the quality of
construction. Currently, total community contributions amount to US$5.3 million, which is comparable to
the central Government contribution of US$4.2 million. This approach helped ensure better ownership of
schools by communities, and fostered better communication between parents and Government officials; it
also contributed to improving maintenance of the facilities. In addition, it became a major ingredient in the
planning tools used by the Ministry of Education, as it gives a direct appreciation of parents' commitment
and of the actual demand for education. At the macro-financial level, this strategy was key in keeping
public expenditures in the sector under control and in ensuring a more cost-effective maintenance of the
infrastructure and equipment. By developing a national publishing capacity, the program also managed to
reduce the cost of textbook production, and developed successful arrangements to distribute textbooks and
other learning materials.

         Third, there are other institutional measures that will help reinforce the system's sustainability
such as: (i) the adjustment measures that affected teachers (multigrade) teaching; (ii) increased teaching
hours and utilization rates of teachers; (iii) built-in capacity at the Ministry of National Education and
training institutions. The significant number of trained Mauritanian education instructors will remain an
important basis for the development of the system.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

        To consolidate project gains, the Government developed follow-up activities under a new lending
program, the Education Sector Development Program (ESDP), currently under implementation. It is a
10-year-plan education sector policy framework and a master plan, and its foundation was laid during the
project under review. ESDP is based on a conceptual sector framework that comprises all sub-sectors
ranging from early childhood through primary, secondary, technical and vocational training to higher
education. An APL provides support to the ESDP in 2 phases, lasting 4 and 5 years respectively. The
objectives of the ESDP include: (i) improving the quality and internal efficiency of education; (ii)
promoting access to and equity in education; (iii) improving the quality of technical, vocational and higher
education; and (iv) enhancing the administrative, and pedagogical management capacity in the education
sector.

         ESDP implementation arrangements drawn from this project are as follows: (i) community
approach to school construction to reduce cost of construction and promote local ownership of schools by
communities; (ii) improved use of resources in the sector through multi-section and double-shift
approaches; (iii) increase in budget allocation and private sector involvement in the sector; (iv) successful



                                                    - 17 -

arrangements to distribute textbooks and other learning materials free of charge; and (v) moderate
expansion of secondary and higher education while focusing on improving internal efficiency.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

         World Bank overall lending performance was satisfactory. Identification was consistent with the
Government priorities expressed in the 1994 CAS. Preparation had adequate design aspects and relied on:
(i) intensive dialogue with the Government's ministerial departments and the principal donors involved in
the education sector, (ii) ESW; and (iii) Bank/Government workshops supporting policy development.

         Design was based on previous Bank experiences and knowledge of the education sector, and was
technically and institutionally sound. The risk assessment of the project was adequately done. At that time,
it seemed likely that all project components would be implemented with little or no difficulty. The financial
package was appropriate in size and balance, and the implementation plan was realistic. (see Sections 3.1
and 3.5).

7.2 Supervision:

         Supervision and follow-up were regular and are judged satisfactory, with an average of two
missions per year. Bank supervision missions collaborated effectively with the national project management
team and Government authorities to facilitate implementation and resolve emerging issues. The skill
composition of supervision was appropriate, and suitable expertise was drawn in as required. Although the
project had five different task managers between appraisal and completion, continuity was maintained in
the composition of supervision missions during the period. This helped the dialogue remain productive and
flexible enough to address the challenges that arose.

         Reporting of implementation progress was adequate with: (i) an early detection of problems; (ii) a
realistic performance ratings in PSRs; (iii) sufficient attention to likely DO impact; (iv) good quality of
advice given to PCU; and (v) good follow-up on agreed actions.

         The most important aspects of project design were the central role of supervision and the flexibility
of Bank staff to partially extend the operation as needed and requested by the Government.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

         Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

         Borrower performance for preparation is satisfactory. There was a close collaboration at the time
of preparation with the Government. As mentioned earlier in Section 3.5, the Government established a
project preparation team which played an appropriate role in identifying project objectives. The project
team ensured that the objectives fitted within the overall strategy for economic development and the
Ministry of Education's strategy to address the enormous shortcomings and challenges that existed at the
conception of the General Education V project. The Government had a project preparation facility of
US$750,000 to cover preparation costs.



                                                     - 18 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:

         Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory. The Government demonstrated its
commitment to       project objectives by complying with all covenants, although in some cases with
considerable delays, especially in adopting and implementing the policy measures agreed within the
framework of the project (see Section 5.2). Effectiveness was on schedule, as the Government fulfilled
specified conditions in a timely fashion and provided counterpart funds for the project as required.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

         The project coordination unit's performance was satisfactory with regards to project management
and coordination of project activities. Timely reports of project achievements were prepared and submitted
to IDA as expected. Annual audits were on time, and there were no outstanding audits during project
implementation. Recommendations of the audit reports were used to improve project financial management.
There was a management problem related to the Special Account during the early years of implementation.
Appropriate measures were administered. Funds which had been declared ineligible were repaid (see
Section 5.3).

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
         Overall, borrower performance is satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

         The specific lesson that can be learned from this project is as follows:

         a) Project Design: Baseline Data: Accurate statistical data are important for setting targets and
objectives during project preparation. The program under review illustrates well these requirements,
regarding how baseline data can alter assessment towards reaching development objectives (see Section
4.1.1)

         b) Specific Education Interventions:Equity and Textbooks Production and Distribution:

         (i) Project intervention to restore equity in access to quality must be carefully targeted to the
    students most in need of assistance: those from lower income families usually have no access to
    necessary material, such as textbooks. Textbooks distribution policy in Mauritania was based on
    selling textbooks to students in the early stage of the project and was made free of charge as poor
    students were not able to pay for textbooks; and

         (ii) Capacity to produce textbooks could be created in the Ministry of Education (public sector);
    however, printing and distributing textbooks in a cost-effective manner are better suited to the private
    rather than to the public sector.




                                                    - 19 -

         Local Communities' Contribution to School Construction: Stakeholders' participation in all phases
of implementation is crucial for optimizing results. The project should ensure that there are mechanisms to
promote public awareness and nurturing community understanding of the project. It is also important that
communities (particularly in rural areas) be sensitized early on, so they have time to plan ways to make a
significant contribution.   Empowering measures and greater responsibility in activities such as daily
supervision of the construction work, and involvement in school maintenance are effective means of
increasing ownership. In the case of the General Education V Project, community participation in school
construction promoted local ownership, and encouraged community financing. This approach was one of
the main contributing factors to the wide presence of schools in almost all villages in Mauritania; it also
encouraged local communities to be involved in the decision-making and local management of schools (see
Annex 1).

         Commitment of high-level political authorities: The strong commitment by high-level political
authorities is a key factor in the successful implementation of project activities that lead to the attainment
of development objectives. The General Education V Project illustrates how much members of
Government, right up to the highest level were committed to encouraging girls' education and textbooks
availability at school, and made it a priority area, both in terms of sensitization activities and in resource
allocation. This led to high gender parity ratios, both at primary and secondary levels, and increased
availability of textbooks among the poorest students.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

         Below is a translation of the Government letter dated December 11, 2003, related to its
observations regarding the Implementation Completion Report of the General Education V Project.

Mr. Resident Representative,

         I have the honor to transmit to you the Government's observations with regards to the
Implementation Completion Report of the General Education V Project.

         I would like to take this opportunity to inform you that this project is the first in the education
sector which addresses all concerns related to the development of the sector as a whole. The objectives
and strategies were set up in accordance with your Institution as well as with other donors. The two
parties (Government and IDA) came to the same conclusion in terms of evaluating sectoral needs and
strategies in mobilizing necessary resources. Therefore, the General Education V Project was evaluated
and negotiated in keeping with the overall education sector strategy and development objectives defined
by the Government, which include the following goals: (i) boost the gross primary enrollment ratio from
an estimated 77 percent in 1994/1995 to 100 percent by 2000; (ii) double the intake into lower-secondary
schools; (iii) improve the quality of education at all levels; and (iv) improve the efficiency of resources
mobilization and use in the sector.

         The substantial progress made by the implementation of the project confirmed the idea that the
initial objectives of project had been reached and, in some cases, had even been exceeded.

         In terms of increasing school supply for primary education, the construction and equipment of
2,230 classrooms by local communities in the regions which were disadvantaged in terms of education
permitted to increase the gross enrollment rate by 14.7 points, as it went up from 77 in 1994/1995 to



                                                    - 20 -

91,7 percent in 2002/2003. The implementation of special measures to boost girls' participation makes it
possible to increase girls' percentage in gross enrollment rate from 70 percent in 1994/1995 to 92.7
percent in 2002/2003. The project supported the production and distribution of approximately 3,050,000
textbooks and 250,000 teachers' guides (far more than the 1,000,000 textbooks and 75,000 teachers'
guides planned at appraisal) as well as the revision of curricula and training of 2,363 teachers.

        Consequently, the project substantially helped the Government in improving the quality of
education at primary and secondary levels. At the sectoral level, the project also contributed to the
development of capacity as well as to the long-term development plan within the higher education
subsector.

        In view of the above, the Government of Mauritania completely endorses the content of the
Implementation Completion Report of the General Education V Project, and takes this opportunity to
express its satisfaction and recognition for the quality of the dialogue and partnership that prevailed
during the life of the project. Last but not least, the Government thanks the World Bank for the overall
support toward the economic and social development of Mauritania in general, and of its education
sector in particular.

        Sincerely yours,

        For the Minister of Economic Affairs and Development
        The Minister of Finance
        Mahfoudh Ould Mohamed Aly

(b) Cofinanciers:
        Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
        Not applicable.

10. Additional Information




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                          1
                Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
PRIMARY SCHOOL
Total primary enrollment                 440,000                                     433,840
Gross enrollment                         93%                                         91.70%
Girls' enrollment ratio                  84%                                         92%
Girls' share in enrollment               45%                                         49.2%
Primary multigrade teaching              From base year 379 classrooms mutigrade     Actual multigrade classrooms 6,060 all of
                                         100 percent rural                           them in rural areas
Double-shift teaching                    Number of classrooms 60                     Actual number of classrooms: 714 (all of
                                                                                     them in urban cities)
Ratio of students to teacher             From baseline data 50:1, in primary school  45. in primary school
SECONDARY SCHOOL
LOW SECONDARY
Number of admission                      18,000 students                             19,232 students
Access to lower secondary                33%                                         64%
Female share of enrollment (%)           37%                                         44.8%
Female share of admission (%)            38%                                         43%
Ratio of students to secondary teacher   25 students by teacher (from baseline data) students by teacher28.08
UPPER SECONDARY
Number of admissions                     5,255                                       9,918
Utilization rate of teachers             84 %                                        87 %
Students classrooms                      45 student per classroom                    50 students per classroom
EDUCATION BUDGET (million UM)
Primary Education Budget                 3,000 million UM Projected                  5,340 million UM actual
% of Education Budget                    49 % of Education Budget                    56 % of Education Budget
Secondary Education                      1,856 million UM projected                  3,115 million UM actual
% of Education Budget                    30 % of Education Budget                    33 % of Education Budget
Other: VAT and higher Education          1,300 million UM                            1,092 million UM
% of Education Budget                    21 % of Education Budget                    11% of Education Budget
% of Education Budget as % of National   23 % of National Budget                     28 %of National Budget




                                                           - 22 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
EXPAND ACCESS TO and IMPROVE                      NA
QUALITY OF PRIMARY SCHOOL                                                            2,230 classrooms were constructed in the
(i) Building 1,430 classrooms in the primary      1,909 classrooms                   primary level
level

(ii) Hiring and Training 1,668 teachers of        NA                                 2,363 were hired and trained of which
which
672 instituteurs and                                                                 1,268 instituteurs and
997 instituteurs adjoints                                                            1,772 instituteurs adjoints.
(iii) Textbooks, supplying 1,000,000              NA                                 3,050,000 textbooks were purchased
(iv) 75,000 teachers' guides                      NA                                 250,00 teachers' guides were distributed
(v) Financing 300 small projects to increase NA                                      The 277 small-scale projects were financed
admission and lower drop-out rates among
girls.
EXPANDING ACCESS TO and IMPROVE                   NA
QUALITY SECONDARY SCHOOL
(i) Building 20 colleges of six classrooms        NA                                 30 colleges of six classrooms were built and
                                                                                     equipped.
(ii) Training 400 secondary science teachers NA                                      557 secondary science teachers of which
                                                                                     100 in lower secondary and 457 in upper
                                                                                     secondary
(ii) Supplying 374,300 textbooks to the           NA                                 A total of 426655 textbooks were supplied of
secondary level                                                                      which 398,000 for distribution to students
                                                                                     and 28,655 for libraries. and 7050 teacher's
                                                                                     guides
(iii) Building and rehabilitating of 20 libraries NA                                  30 libraries were built and 20 were
in the secondary schools                                                             rehabilitated and equipped in the secondary
                                                                                     level
IMPROVING THE QUALITY AND                         NA
MANAGEMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION
*
(i) Construction/or rehabilitation of and         NA                                 The academic and administrative facilities
furnishing the academic and administrative                                           were constructed and equipped.
facilities
(ii) Preparation of long term development plan NA                                    Long term development plan was prepared
for higher education                                                                 and approved by the government
PROMOTE PRIVATE SECTOR OF                         NA
EDUCATION
Adapting the legal and fiscal regulations         NA                                 The new legal and fiscal regulatory of the
                                                                                     private sector is in place
 Construction of a private education center       NA                                 The construction of the private education
                                                                                     resource center was completed, equipped
                                                                                     and is operational.
STRENGTHEN SECTOR PLANNING,                       NA
MANAGEMENT AND RESOURCE USE
 Conduct an audit of the MENs structure,          NA                                 Audit was conducted and new organizational
functions processes staffing and budgeting                                           chart of the MEN is approved by Government

1End of project
* There were no output indicators for the following components: promote private sector of education and strengthening sector
planning and management as well as improving the quality and management of higher education.




                                                                  - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                          Appraisal          Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                           Estimate            Estimate             Appraisal
                             Component                                    US$ million         US$ million
1. Expand Access to and Improve the Quality of Primary
Education
(a) Financing a Community-based Primary Classroom                            18.70                  20.95                  120
Construction: Program
(b) Supporting special measures to boost girls' participation                  1.70                  1.21                   71
(c) Improving the development and distribution of                              3.70                  3.70                  100
textbooks and teachers' guides
(d) Improving curricula and teacher training                                   1.80                  1.95                  108
2. Expand Access to and Improve the Quality of Secondary
Education by :
(a) Constructing lower-secondary schools (collèges)                            5.00                  5.10                  102
(b) Improving instruction in core subjects                                     2.30                  2.15                   93
3. Improve the Quality and Management of Higher                                1.80                  1.89                  105
Education By :
4. Promote private-sector provision of education                               0.30                  0.35                  117
5. Strengthen Sector Planning, Management and Resource
Use
(a) Strengthening Education Planning and Management                            3.80                  3.50                   92
(b) Supporting project management and coordination                             3.10                  3.30                  106
PPF                                                                            0.40                  0.40                  100

Total Baseline Cost                                                          42.60                  44.50
                               Total Project Costs                           42.60                  44.50
                       Total Financing Required                              42.60                  44.50
The increase in the contribution to the community classroom construction represents the supplemental classrooms constructed
by communities; the targeted number was 1,430 classrooms in SAR, and the actual is 2,230 classrooms.




                                                           - 24 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                       Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                    2           N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.90               6.10              7.70              3.30             18.00
                                       (0.90)             (6.10)            (7.70)            (0.00)            (14.70)
2. Goods                                8.20               1.60              0.20              0.00             10.00
                                       (8.20)             (1.60)            (0.20)            (0.00)            (10.00)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              5.50              0.00              5.50
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (5.50)            (0.00)            (5.50)
4. Training                             0.00               0.00              1.00              0.00              1.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.00)            (0.00)            (1.00)
5. Pilots Operation                     0.00               0.00              1.50              0.00              1.50
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.50)            (0.00)            (1.50)
6.Operating Cost                        0.00               0.00              2.30              4.30              6.60
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.30)            (0.00)            (2.30)
   Total                                9.10               7.70              18.20             7.60             42.60
                                       (9.10)             (7.70)            (18.20)           (0.00)            (35.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.90               6.10             11.00             0.00              18.00
                                       (0.90)            (6.10)             (7.70)           (0.00)           (14.70)
2. Goods                                8.20               1.60              0.20             0.00              10.00
                                       (8.20)            (1.60)             (0.20)           (0.00)           (10.00)
3. Services                             0.00               0.20              4.40             0.00              4.60
                                       (0.00)            (0.20)             (4.40)           (0.00)            (4.60)
4. Training                             0.00               0.00              2.10             0.00              2.10
                                       (0.00)            (0.00)             (2.10)           (0.00)            (2.10)
5. Pilots Operation                     0.00               0.00              0.50             0.00              0.50
                                       (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.50)           (0.00)            (0.50)
6.Operating Cost                        0.00               0.00              7.40             0.00              7.40
                                       (0.00)            (0.00)             (3.10)           (0.00)            (3.10)
   Total                                9.10               7.90             25.60             0.00              42.60
                                       (9.10)            (7.90)            (18.00)           (0.00)           (35.00)

1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services of contracted staff of the
   project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 25 -

Project Financing by component by source (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                     Percentage of Appraisal
  component by source          Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                            Bank     Govt.       CoF.    Bank       Govt.       CoF.  Bank   Govt.   CoF.
1. Expand Access to and    18.30     3.30        4.30    18.30       4.30       5.30  100.0  130.3   123.3
Improve the Quality of
Primary Education
(a) Financing a            11.10     3.30        4.30    11.45       4.20       5.30  103.2  127.3   123.3
Community-based Primary
Classroom Construction:
Program
(b) Supporting special      1.70                          1.20                        70.6
measures to boost
girls'paraticipation
(c) Improving the           3.70                          3.70                        100.0
development and
distribution of texbooks
and teachers'guides
(d) Improving curricula     1.80                          1.95                        108.3
and teacher training
2. Expand Access to and     7.30                          7.25                        99.3
Improve the Quality of
Secondary Education by :
(a) Constructing            5.00                          5.10                        102.0
lower-secondary schools
(collèges)
(b) Improving instruction   2.30                          2.15                        93.5
in core subjects
3. Improve the Quality and  1.80                          1.90                        105.6
Management of Higher
Education By :
4. Promote private-sector   0.30                          0.35                        116.7
provision of education
5. Strengthen Sector        6.90                          6.80                        98.6
Planning, Management
and Resource Use
(a) Strengthening           3.80                          3.50                        92.1
Education Planning and
Management
(b) Supporting project      3.10                          3.30                        106.5
management and
coordination
Refunding of PPF            0.40                          0.40                        100.0




                                                  - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

         No attempt was made at appraisal to estimate the net present value (NPV) or economic rate of
return (ERR); thus, there is no baseline against which to compare current estimates. However, this section
will focus on the expected benefits identified in Section 5.1 of the SAR. Project benefits were widespread
and covered the following areas:

         (a) Increase in the number of school places through the school construction program mostly in
underserved areas: this project achieved important results in increasing access, bridging gender gap, and
improving efficiency and outcomes at a fairly low investment level. The investment of US$20.12 million on
school construction in rural areas provided 2,230 classrooms for the coverage of about 111,500 students
per year. Another strategy used by the project to increase the number of school places was the efficient use
of existing infrastructure for multigrade and double-shift classes. The number of multigrade classrooms
increased from 379 (for about 1,440 children in 1994/1995) to 6,060 classrooms (for about 303,000
children) in 2002/2003, while the number of double-shift classrooms rose from 51 in 1994/95 to 820
(about 35,700 children) in 2002/2003.

         (b) Increased demand for education: As a result of sensitization campaigns supported by the
project on the importance of schooling, the intake rate into grade one increased from 77 percent in 1994/95
percent to 91.7 percent in 2002/2003, representing one of the highest rates in West Africa. Another
important beneficial aspect of the project is that it raised enrollment ratios in underserved peri-urban areas
of Nouakchott and in six regions where access to primary education is lowest. In 1994/1995, only 3 regions
had reached 100 percent GER, and, at the end of the project, 3 more regions had reached 100 percent GER;
thus, the number of regions reaching 100 percent GER had doubled. Consequently, disparity between
regions diminished substantially.

         (c) Improvement of girls' participation in schooling: The project invested a modest amount of
US$660,000 to increase girls' participation and girls' continuation from primary to secondary school;
however, the outcome of this modest amount was very significant in terms of economic benefit. The gender
gap in education closed rapidly during the project, admission into grade 1 was at par for both boys and
girls, and was actually higher in rural than in urban areas. Consequently, the proportion of female
enrollment in total primary school enrollment reached 49.2 percent in 2002/2003, and girls' share in the
secondary rose from 45 percent to 48 percent during project implementation. Female share of admission in
lower secondary rose from 38 percent in 19993/94 to 44 percent in 1999/2000. Female share in scholarship
increased from 21 percent in 1994/95 to 44.87 percent in 2002/2003. Also, in 7 out of the 13 regions,
registered girls' GER is higher that the national GER, and for six of them above 100 percent. It is known
that better educated women are found to have substantially better habits with respect to weaning, food
preparation, reducing under-nutrition and infant mortality, and home hygiene practices. And educated
mothers have greater fertility control, enabling them to limit family size and space birth order to reflect
household economic circumstances. Although several activities could be considered economic costs in
addition to the US$660,00 spent on girls' education in the program, given that the fact that the five-year
General Education V Project met its targets related to female education, it seems reasonable to expect that
the program achieved a positive cost-benefit ratio;

         (d) Private sector provision of education: The General Education V Project also saw the
investment of a modest amount of US$140,000 to promote private sector development in the sector. As a
result, the number of private classrooms increased from 60 in 1994/1995 to about 600 in 2002/2003. The
share of private enrollments in total primary enrollments rose from 1.4 percent in 1994/1995 to 8 percent in
2002/2003;



                                                     - 27 -

        (e) Inequity: Inequities were addressed during implementation of the General Education V Project.
Therefore, benefits accrued from the project also included the protection of the poor. The provision of
school places and books increased access, in particular for children, in rural, poor, and disadvantaged
areas. In the early stage of project implementation, textbooks were sold at low cost; however, this approach
did not function, as many students, mainly in rural areas, could not afford to pay. As a result, textbooks
policy was changed and made free of charge to students. The introduction of the new policy contributed to
raise textbook/student ratio from 1/5 to ½. The utilization of textbooks increased, particularly by the poor.
Currently, the system is being maintained, and textbooks are available in all schools.

        Higher levels of primary enrollment rate from the General Education V Project will increase the
supply of primary educated labor into the economy. Primary and post-primary education also have a
strongly positive and statistically significant effect on female labor force participation. In addition, it will
increase the future supply of secondary, college and technically educated labor, as some of the primary
school children flow on to secondary education and above; and

        (f) Public Expenditure Patterns at Different Education Levels: The share of education in total
budget rose to provide required resources to meet the increase in demand for education. The proportion of
public expenditure devoted to education as a percentage of Government budget increased during the project
implementation period, as it went up from 21 percent in 1995 to 28 percent in 2003. The distribution of
expenditures reveals that: (i) the primary school level benefited from favorable arbitrages in that its
proportion of current expenditures increased from 38 percent to 56 percent over the period; (ii) this gain
was largely obtained at the expense of other sub-sectors (higher and vocational education), which
contracted from 31 percent in 1995 to 11 percent in 2003 over the same period; (iii) the Government
drastically reduced the allocation to higher education in Mauritania; and (iv) the proportion of funds
allocated to the secondary sector increased sensibly, as it went up from 31 percent in 1995 to 33 percent in
2003. In 1998, a major portion of education spending (85 percent) was allocated to wages and salaries out
of which 74 percent went toward salaries of teaching staff. 11 percent were spent on nonteaching salaries
and 8 percent on goods and services, while the share of transfer was 7 percent (see Annex 1).

        Under the HIPC initiative and EFA-Fast Tract initiative, considerable additional resources are
expected to bechanneled to the education sector. However, the Government has yet to take a decision on
what the appropriate level of the overall spending for education should be, and this will be crucial at all
levels.




                                                     - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/15/1993                4    Projects Of. (1); Educ. Sp. (3)       S               S
              07/21/1993                8    Projects Advisor (1), Impl. Sp.       S               S
                                             (2), Pedagocical Advisor (1),
                                             Textbooks Sp. (2), Op. Of. (1),
                                             Projects Of. (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/14/1994                8    Projects Advisor (1), Impl.           S               S
                                             Sp. (2), Pedagocical Advisor
                                             (1); Textbooks Sp. (2); Op.
                                             Of. (1); Projects Of. (1)

 Supervision
              03/30/1995                2    Planning Sp. (1); Educ. Sp.           S               S
                                             (1)
              11/02/1995                2    Educ. Planning Sp. (1), Impl.         S               S
                                             Sp .(1)
              11/16/1996                2    Sr. Educ. Sp. (1); Impl. Sp. (1)      S               S
              03/30/1997                2    Economist (1); Educ. Sp. (1)          S               S
              10/30/1997                3    Educ. Sp. (1); Textbooks Sp. (1);     S               S
                                             Architect (1)
              02/25/1999                3    Educ. Sp. (1); Impl. Sp. (1);         S               S
                                             Projects Of. (1)
              10/27/1999                2    Educ. Sp. (1), Op. Officer(1)         S               S
              08/01/2000                3    Educ. Sp. (1); Op. Officer (1);       S               S
                                             Fin..Mgt. Sp. (1)
              11/15/2001                3    Team Leader (1); Sr. Educ. Sp.        S               S
                                             (2)
              12/19/2002                3    Team Leader (1) , Sr. Op. Of.         S               S
                                             (1), Fin. Sp. (1)

 ICR
              12/07/2003                4     Team Leader (1) , Sr. Educ.          S               S
                                              Sp. (1), Proc. Sp. (1)., Fin.
                                              Sp. (1)




                                              - 29 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            31.4                            71
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 76.1                           160
  Supervision                        205.54                        186,227
  ICR                                      12                       20,000
  Total                              316.42                        206,458




                                            - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Staff Appraisal Report No 13569-MAU: General Education V Project
2. Report and recommendation of the President of IDA to the Executive Directors, March 10,
1995, Report No. P-6454-MAU
3. World Bank Mission Aide-memoire and Project PSRs (From PSR #1 on 04/21/1995 to PSR #17 on
06/18/98)
4. Education Sector Development Program: Staff Appraisal Report No 22529-MA, March 10, 1995
5. General Education Project V, Financial Audit: September 20, 2003
6. General Education Project V; Rapport d'Audit Comptable et Financier (Comptes de Clôture au 31
décembre 2002)
7. The World Bank. 1997 Mauritania Country Assistance Strategy, Paper Vol 1.
8. Direction de la Planification et de la Coopération (DPC) Statistiques Scolaires
9. Revue annuelle du Programme National du Dévelopment du Secteur de l'Education (PNDSE),
septembre 2003
11. ONS (projection de la population) statistiques démographiques
12. Le système Educatif mauritanien éléments d'analyse pour instruire des politiques nouvelles.2000
13. BIEF, Bureau d'Ingénierie en Education et en Emploi, Etude relative à la Restructuration du Secteur
de l'Enseignement Supérieur en Mauritanie, mai 1999
14. Islamic Republic of Mauritania 2001. Programme National de Développement du Secteur de
l'Education 2001/2010, Tome 1: Diagnostique et Stratégie
15. Islamic Republic of Mauritania 2000. Poverty Reduction Strategy paper




                                                   - 33 -

Additional Annex 8. Government Completion Report

                            REPUBLIQUE ISLAMIQUE DE MAURITANIE
                        Ministère des Affaires Economiques et du Développement
                           Direction des Projets Education /Formation (DPEF)

                         PROJET D'APPUI A L'ENSEIGNEMENT GENERAL
                                             (Projet Education -V)

                                        RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT

1.       Introduction

En vue d'améliorer la qualité et la pertinence de son système d'enseignement général, le Gouvernement de la
République Islamique de Mauritanie a négocié un Crédit de 23 800 000 DTS auprès de la Banque
Mondiale. C'est ainsi qu'un        Accord de Crédit a été signé le 26 mai 1995 entre le Gouvernement
mauritanien et la Banque mondiale pour le financement du Projet d'Appui à l'enseignement Général V, qui
avait comme objectifs : (i) porter le taux brut de scolarisation (TBS) de 77% selon les estimations, en
1994/1995 à 100 % en 2000 ; (ii) accroître l'accès au premier cycle du secondaire; (iii) améliorer la qualité
de l'éducation à tous les niveaux; et (iv) rendre la mobilisation et l'utilisation des ressources plus efficaces
dans le secteur. Le projet était structuré en 5 composantes :

A.       Enseignement fondamental (22,9 millions de dollars) qui visait l'élargissement de l'accès et
l'amélioration de la qualité, en appuyant les activités suivantes : i) la construction de salles de classes avec
l'appui des communautés, ii) le renforcement de la scolarisation des filles, iii) l'élaboration et la distribution
des manuels scolaires et guides des maîtres, et iv) l'amélioration des programmes d'études et la formation
des maîtres.
B.       Enseignement secondaire (6,5 millions de dollars) qui cherchait à élargir l'accès au premier cycle
et à améliorer la qualité de l'enseignement à travers : i) la construction de collèges et ii) l'amélioration de la
qualité de l'enseignement des matières de base.
C.       Enseignement supérieur (1,3 millions de dollars) qui avait pour but d'améliorer la qualité des
études et la gestion du sous-secteur par : i) le renforcement de la gestion et l'amélioration, à court terme, de
la qualité de l'enseignement ; et ii) la préparation d'un programme de développement à long terme.
D.       Enseignement privé (0,3 millions de dollars) qui visait le développement des écoles privées à
travers : i) la modification du cadre juridique les régissant, et ii) l'élargissement des possibilités de
formation initiale et continue de leurs personnels enseignants.
E.       Planification et gestion (7 millions de dollars) avait pour objectif de renforcer les capacités
nationales en matière de planification et de gestion du système dans son ensemble, en appuyant les activités
suivantes : i) renforcement de la capacité de planification et de gestion du personnel ; et ii) appui à la
gestion et à la coordination du projet.

2.       Résultats de la mise en oeuvre du Projet d'Appui à l'Enseignement Général V

L'exécution du projet a aidé le Gouvernement à élargir substantiellement l'accès à l'éducation fondamentale
et à l'éducation secondaire, l'amélioration de la qualité du système éducatif dans son ensemble, le
développement des capacités institutionnelles du secteur et une mobilisation et utilisation des ressources
plus efficaces dans le secteur.




                                                       - 34 -

A la clôture du Projet, les résultats de l'exécution des activités par composante et sous-composantes se
présentent comme suit :

2.1      Enseignement fondamental
(i) Elargissement de l'Accès au Fondamental :
Au niveau de la sous composante construction de salles de classe à base communautaire, le projet prévoyait
le financement de la construction et l'équipement de 1.430 salles de classe, des installations connexes
(bureaux, latrines), de l'amélioration à faible coût de l'approvisionnement en eau, ainsi que la coordination
et la supervision du programme. L'Etat devait prendre en charge les enseignants nécessaires (2.363 unités
dont 75% d'instituteurs adjoints) pour couvrir les besoins en enseignants du secteur tandis que les
communautés devaient, quant à elles, supporter 30% du coût de construction des salles de classe. La mise
en oeuvre de ce programme devait permettre de porter le taux de scolarisation de 77% en 1994/95 à 100%
en 1999/2000.

Le programme de construction a été exécuté de façon satisfaisante grâce au succès enregistré dans la mise
en oeuvre de l'approche communautaire, d'une part, et aux économies réalisées dans le cadre de la sous
composante d'autre part. Le Projet d'Appui à l'Enseignement Général Education V                   a appuyé la
construction de 2.230 salles de classe au lieu des 1.430 initialement prévues dans 7 régions considérées
comme étant défavorisées sur le plan de l'éducation. C'est ainsi que 85.000 places supplémentaires ont été
créées par le projet entre 1994/1995 et 2002/2003, 181 écoles ont bénéficié de bureaux de directeur et des
latrines ont été construites dans 129 écoles (65%). Le taux de scolarisation a connu une évolution favorable
au plan national sur la période du projet. En effet, le taux de scolarisation est passé de 77% en 94/95 à 91,7
en 2002/2003.

(ii) Scolarisation des filles.
S'agissant de la sous composante scolarisation des filles, le projet prévoyait de financer des campagnes
ciblées d'information et de communication ainsi qu'un fonds d'appui à des micro-projets dans des zones
ciblées. Le Gouvernement devait mettre en oeuvre les mesures de soutien à l'accès des filles comme
énoncées dans la lettre de politique sectorielle. La mise en oeuvre de ces activités devait permettre de réduire
de façon sensible les disparités entre garçons et filles dans le secteur éducatif.

Les activités programmées dans le cadre de la sous composante ont connu une exécution satisfaisante. Au
titre des campagnes IEC, le projet a financé les services de consultants nationaux et internationaux qui ont
élaboré une stratégie IEC et une étude sur les stéréotypes sexistes, l'organisation de plusieurs campagnes
dans les wilayas ciblées, des ateliers de formation au profit des enseignants, des voyages d'études pour des
responsables du programme, la distribution annuelle de prix aux filles lauréates. En ce qui concerne le
fonds d'appui à la scolarisation des filles (FAF), 277 petits projets sur les 300 prévus ont été financés dans
les 5 wilayas ciblées.

Les résultats enregistrés, au plan national, en matière de réduction des disparités entre genres sont très
satisfaisants. En effet, le taux brut de scolarisation des filles est passé de 70 pour cent en 1994/1995 à
92,7% en 2002/2003. La part des filles dans les effectifs représente près de 49,2% contre 44% en 1994/95.
La proportion d'admission des filles dans les collèges est passée de 38 pour cent à 44,8 %. Le Hodh El
Gharbi, l'Assaba et Nouakchott affichent actuellement des taux de scolarisation féminine supérieurs aux
garçons. Les deux premières wilayas suivent depuis plusieurs années une tendance de différence positive
entre les deux taux en faveur des filles. Cette différence est d'ailleurs très importante au Hodh El Gharbi
(plus de 10 points de différence depuis 97/98, 17 points en 02/03). Ces deux wilayas enregistrent aussi des
taux de participation féminine supérieurs à 50%. Dans l'ensemble, 7 wilayas sur 13 ont des taux de
scolarisation pour les filles en 2002/03, dépassant la moyenne nationale ; parmi celles-ci, 6 ont des taux
supérieurs à 100%.




                                                      - 35 -

(iii) Elaboration et distribution des manuels et guides des maîtres.
Au titre de la sous composante manuels scolaires, le projet devrait financer l'impression et la distribution de
manuels de l'élève (1.000.000 d'exemplaires) et de guides de maîtres (75.000 exemplaires) pour les
matières de base (lecture, mathématiques et étude du milieu), les aménagements de l'entrepôt de l'IPN,
l'installation d'étagères dans les entrepôts régionaux, l'achat des cantines pour le transport et l'entreposage
des livres dans les écoles, la formation du personnel de l'IPN dans les domaines de l'élaboration des
manuels, l'assistance technique à court terme et une campagne de sensibilisation du public sur les manuels.

Les manuels ont été fournis en quantité trois fois supérieure à celle qui est prévue initialement, soit
3.050.000 unités au lieu de 1.000.000 unités et 250.000 guides des maîtres au lieu de 75.000. 1200
cantines ont été acquises pour le transport et l'entreposage des livres. S'agissant de la campagne de
sensibilisation, des pages publicitaires ont été publiées dans les journaux nationaux à grande diffusion.

(iv) Amélioration des programmes d'études et formation des maîtres.
Pour la sous composante amélioration des programmes d'études et de la formation des maîtres, le projet
devrait appuyer (i) au titre de l'amélioration des programmes scolaires : l'évaluation des programmes, des
manuels et guides correspondants ainsi que la révision des matériels didactiques; une refonte du programme
de l'étude du milieu pour intégrer les questions de santé et d'environnement ; le renforcement des capacités
en matière de révision des programmes (16 mois d'assistance technique, jumelage avec une institution
extérieure compétente, voyages d'études et soutien logistique) ; et ii) au titre de la formation initiale et
continue des enseignants : l'équipement de l'ENI d'Aioun ; le financement de 20 mois d'assistance
technique à court terme ; l'organisation d'ateliers de formation pour 1.100 enseignants de classes
multigrades, 1.500 enseignants de classes à double flux et 1.200 enseignants chargés de la promotion de
l'éducation des filles ; le financement d'un programme pilote pour la formation continue des enseignants
dans les IDEP des zones d'accès difficile ; et la rénovation et l'équipement de l'ENI de Nouakchott.

Les activités prévues au titre de cette sous composante ont été entièrement réalisées. Les programmes et les
manuels ont été évalués. Tous ces programmes ont été révisés et réécrits suivant l'approche par compétence
; ceux de la 1ère et de la 4ème année ont d'ailleurs été expérimentés dans le cadre du projet. En matière de
renforcement de capacité, l'IPN a bénéficié de deux contrats de jumelage avec des institutions extérieures,
l'un en matière de pédagogie des grands groupes (multigrades, double flux, scolarisation des filles) avec
NSINTER et dans le domaine de l'évaluation avec l'IREDU. Plusieurs voyages d'études ont été organisés
dans ce cadre et les structures concernées ont bénéficié d'un appui logistique approprié.

En matière de formation initiale et continue, l'ENI d'Aioun a été équipée, l'ENI de Nouakchott a bénéficié
de travaux de réhabilitation et d'extension ainsi que des équipements, plus de 2.363 enseignants ont
bénéficié des formations ciblées dans les domaines de l'enseignement des classes multigrades, de
l'enseignement dans les classes double flux, de la scolarisation des filles et sur les nouveaux programmes
conçus suivant l'approche par compétence.

Ces deux dernières sous composantes visaient à améliorer la qualité et l'efficacité interne de l'enseignement.
Quatre indicateurs étaient fixés pour mesurer les objectifs atteints dans ce cadre. Il s'agit de la provision en
manuels scolaires, du nombre de maîtres bénéficiant d'une formation continue, du taux de redoublants et du
taux d'abandons. Les deux premiers indicateurs ont connu des évolutions satisfaisantes.




                                                      - 36 -

2.2 Enseignement secondaire
(i)      Construction de collèges et élargissement de l'accès au premier cycle du secondaire :
Au titre de la sous composante élargissement de l'accès au 1er cycle secondaire, le projet prévoyait la
construction et l'équipement de 20 collèges de six classes chacun (6.000 places) dans les petits centres
urbains dépourvus d'offre scolaire au niveau du secondaire.

Le programme de construction des collèges a été confié à AMEXTIPE. Il a enregistré des résultats
satisfaisants, grâce aux économies réalisées et à la prolongation de la durée du projet. En effet, en plus des
20 collèges du programme initial, un programme complémentaire de 10 collèges à Nouakchott a été réalisé.
Ces 30 collèges ont été construits et équipés conformément aux caractéristiques fixées.

Les résultats atteints en matière de scolarisation au 1ier cycle sont satisfaisants. En effet, l'effectif des
nouveaux entrants en première année du collège (9.000 en 93/94) a progressé de façon continue pour
atteindre 19.232 étudiants en 2002/2003, Le taux de transition est passé de 33% en 93/94 à 64% en
2002/2003. L'effectif de nouveaux entrants fixé à 5.000 étudiants a continué à progresser pour atteindre
9.918 en 2001/2002, soit un taux de transition de 80% au second cycle du secondaire.

Concernant l'équité entre genres, la part des filles dans le 1er cycle a évolué: 34% en 96/97 et à 44,8% en
2002/2003 soit 4.8 points de plus que le taux prévu en fin de projet (40%).

S'agissant de l'efficacité dans l'utilisation des ressources, le taux d'utilisation des professeurs qui devait
être en fin de projet de 88% pour le 1er cycle et de 90% pour le second cycle a connu une évolution
irrégulière. Pour les deux cycles réunis, ce taux a atteint 87% en 99/2000. Le ratio élève/professeur s'est
stabilisé pour les deux cycles réunis autour de 29 de 97/98 à 2000/2002, pour se situer autour de 27 élèves
par professeurs 2002/2003.

(ii)     Amélioration de l'enseignement au second cycle du secondaire.
Au niveau de la sous composante amélioration de la qualité de l'enseignement des matières de base, le
projet devrait financer : i) l'achat de manuels scolaires (235.000 pour les collèges et 123.000 pour les
lycées) et de guides du professeurs (7.000 pour les collèges et 9.500 pour les lycées), ii) l'acquisition de kits
scientifiques pour 30 lycées ainsi que des pièces détachées et du matériel sur quatre ans pour 70 kits, iii) la
formation de quelque 400 professeurs sur l'utilisation de ces kits, iv) une évaluation de l'apprentissage des
sciences dans les laboratoires et les classes utilisant ces kits, et v) la construction et ou la rénovation de 20
bibliothèques scolaires et la fourniture d'un fonds documentaire.

L'achat de manuels et guides a concerné 255.000 unités au lieu des 235.000 livres initialement prévus. Le
fond documentaire a été acquis et les 20 bibliothèques programmées ont été réalisées (12 construites et 8
réhabilitées), et ce, en plus de la dotation de chacun des 30 collèges construits d'une bibliothèque équipée.
Parallèlement au programme initialement prévu, le projet a permis la connexion de 5 lycées au réseau
Internet par la réhabilitation et l'équipement d'une salle d'Internet dans chacun des 5 établissements
concernés.

2.2      Enseignement supérieur
Au niveau de cette composante le projet devrait financer, au titre du volet renforcement de la gestion de
l'éducation et l'amélioration, à court terme, de la qualité de l'enseignement, la construction ou la
rénovation ainsi que l'équipement d'installations académiques et administratives des trois facultés de
l'université de Nouakchott, la rénovation et l'équipement des bureaux administratifs du rectorat ainsi que la
formation du personnel de l'administration et de la bibliothèque.


                                                      - 37 -

(ii)     Concernant le volet préparation d'un programme de développement à long terme, il est prévu
également de financer la formation du personnel responsable du plan de restructuration proposé,
l'élaboration d'un plan de développement à long terme pour l'enseignement supérieur, l'équipement et le
matériel de bureau pour la cellule de pilotage, des services de consultants locaux ou étrangers pour
développer le plan de restructuration, des visites d'études dans des universités à l'étranger, et autres frais
d'études connexes.

Toutes les activités prévues sous les deux volets de cette composante ont été réalisées, avec, en plus du
programme initial, la construction et l'équipement d'un local Internet pour l'université de Nouakchott.
Les résultats de l'étude sur la restructuration de l'enseignement supérieur, réalisée par le BIEF, ont été mis
en application. C'est ce qui a permis la conception du plan de développement de l'enseignement supérieur
que la Banque mondiale se propose de supporter.

2.3      Enseignement privé

     Les activités prévues sous cette composante comprennent : (a) au titre des mesures à prendre par le
Gouvernement : i) la modification du cadre juridique régissant l'enseignement privé en vue de le faire
bénéficier d'avantages fiscaux ainsi que des possibilités d'attribution de terrains et de rétrocession d'écoles,
ii) l'ouverture, au profit des enseignants du privé, des programmes de formation initiale et continue
organisés par le MEN, et iii) la création au niveau centrale d'une structure chargée de l'enseignement privé
; (b) au titre de l'appui aux écoles privés : i) le financement de la construction et de l'équipement d'un
centre de ressources pédagogiques pour l'enseignement privé, et ii) l'acquisition de fournitures et d'un
véhicule pour la structure chargée de l'enseignement privé.

Au titre des mesures, un texte modifiant le cadre juridique a été promulgué. Des enseignants du secteur
privé ont été formés dans les écoles publiques, conformément à un protocole d'accord signé entre
l'association des écoles privées et le MEN. Le MEN a créé, dans le cadre de son nouvel organigramme
adopté suite aux conclusions de l'audit du ministère, une direction centrale chargée de l'enseignement privé.
Concernant le volet appui aux écoles privées, toutes les activités prévues ont été réalisées, et le Projet a
financé la construction et l'équipement d'un centre pédagogique de l'enseignement privé.

2.4      Planification et gestion
(i)      Au niveau de la sous composante renforcement de la planification de l'éducation et des
capacités de gestion, le projet devrait financer i) la construction et l'équipement de 7 DREF et de 10
inspections départementales ; ii) l'équipement et le soutien logistique de la DEF, la DES, la DPC et l'IPN ;
iii) des services de spécialistes en statistiques scolaires ; iv) des séminaires locaux au profit des inspecteurs
sur la collecte et la vérification des données ; v) 28 mois de services de spécialistes pour la réalisation
d'études relatives à l'évaluation du niveau des élèves du fondamental, aux stéréotypes sexistes dans les
manuels et à la révision des programmes d'études, et ce, grâce à un jumelage avec une institution
internationale compétente ; et vi) la réalisation d'un audit technique du MEN par un auditeur indépendant.

Toutes les activités prévues au titre de cette composante ont été réalisées. De plus, un centre des examens a
été construit en complément de ce programme initial. Les résultats enregistrés dans ce cadre sont
importants. Un réel processus de décentralisation des services de l'éducation a été amorcé par la création de
directions régionales de l'éducation nationale (DREN). Celles-ci disposent, désormais, d'un cadre de travail
qui a été amélioré par le projet.




                                                       - 38 -

Une capacité opérationnelle en matière d'évaluation et de recherche pédagogiques a été mise en place à
l'IPN, à travers une cellule spécialisée. Celle-ci dispose d'un personnel formé à la tâche et a conduit avec
succès plusieurs études et évaluations dans le cadre du projet en partenariat avec des institutions
internationales compétentes.

3.       Etat de décaissement

Sur le plan financier le projet a décaissé la totalité du Crédit, et les contributions financières des
communautés et du Gouvernement ont été dépassées pour couvrir les extensions des dates de clôtures du
Crédit et les constructions de classes additionnelles. En ce qui concerne le financement IDA, les
décaissements, à la clôture du Crédit au 30 mars 2003, se présentent comme indiqué au tableau ci-dessous.

4.       Conclusions

La mise en oeuvre du projet d'Appui à l'Enseignement Général a aidé considérablement le Gouvernement à
améliorer substantiellement son système éducatif. En effet tous les indicateurs du secteur se sont nettement
améliorés, et des programmes de formations ont été mis en oeuvre pour un renforcement substantiel des
capacités institutionnelles. Les services clés du Département de l'éducation tant au niveau central qu'au
niveau décentralisé ont bénéficié des équipements indispensables à leur bon fonctionnement, ce qui a permis
d'accroître leur efficacité pour répondre à la demande croissante en matière d'éducation,




                                                     - 39 -

Additional Annex 9. Map




                           - 40 -

- 41 -

