Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2706 MAU
Project Agreement
(General Education V Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGENCE MAURITANIENNE D'EXECUTION DES TRAVAUX D'INTERET PUBLIC POUR L’EMPLOI (AMEXTIPE)
Dated September 27, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2706 MAU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 27, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and AGENCE MAURITANIENNE D'EXECUTION DES TRAVAUX 
D'INTERET PUBLIC POUR L’EMPLOI (AMEXTIPE).
WHEREAS by a Development Credit Agreement, (General Education V Project), signed 
on May 26, 1995, between Islamic Republic of Mauritania (the Borrower) and the 
Association, (Credit No. 2706-MAU) (the Development Credit Agreement) as amended of 
even date herewith (the Amendment), amending and restating the Development Credit 
Agreement, the Association has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twenty-three million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 23,800,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development 
Credit Agreement, upon Amendment only on condition that AMEXTIPE agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Association, as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS AMEXTIPE, in consideration of the Association's having entered into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement , the Preamble to this Agreement and in the 
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. AMEXTIPE declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part G of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, education management and architectural 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. AMEXTIPE shall: 
(a)
exercise its rights under the AMEXTIPE Project Agreement in such a manner 
as to: (i) protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association and AMEXTIPE; (ii) 
comply with its obligations under this Agreement, and the Convention, and (iii) 
achieve the purposes of Part G of the Project; and
(b)
duly perform all its obligations under the Convention.  Except as the 
Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, AMEXTIPE shall not take or concur 
in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating, or 
waiving the Convention, as the case may be, or any material provision thereof.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part G of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. AMEXTIPE shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, and 9.06 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, respectively) in respect 
of Part G of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) AMEXTIPE shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part G of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement, under the Convention.
(b)
AMEXTIPE shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the implementation of Part G 
of the Project, or the performance by AMEXTIPE of its obligations under this 
Agreement, or under the Convention, as the case may be.
(c)
Without limitation to the generality of the foregoing, AMEXTIPE shall 
participate in the Annual Reviews and the Midterm review referred to in paragraphs (3) 
and (4), respectively, of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this 
end, shall: (i) furnish to the Borrower and the Association such reports as may be 
required for that purpose, and in such detail as the Borrower or the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the progress and status of Part G of the Project; and (ii) 
following each such review, promptly take any corrective action deemed necessary to 
remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of Part G of the Project, or to 
implement such other measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in 
furtherance of the implementation of Part G of the Project.
(d)
Not later than March 31 of each year during which Part G of the Project 
is carried out, furnish to the Borrower and the Association, for its review and 
comment, a report, in such form and detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, on the implementation of Part G of the Project and, promptly upon having 
received the comments of the Association on said report, take all measures deemed 
Page  3
necessary to improve performance in furtherance of the implementation of Part G of the 
Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of AMEXTIPE
Section 3.01. (a) AMEXTIPE shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with appropriate administrative, financial, education management and 
architectural practices, and under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b)
AMEXTIPE shall ensure that the positions of its director general, 
technical director and financial director shall be filled at all times by persons with 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.02. AMEXTIPE shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property and, from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound financial and technical practices.
Section 3.03. AMEXTIPE shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) AMEXTIPE shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition, and the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to finance 
the carrying out of Part G of the Project.
(b)
AMEXTIPE shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements, as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02.(a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
AMEXTIPE thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Page  4
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, DC
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For AMEXTIPE:
Agence Mauritanienne d'Exécution des Travaux
d'Intérêt Public pour l’Emploi
BP 5234
Nouakchott, République Islamique de Mauritanie
Facsimile:
(222) -2- 575 13
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of AMEXTIPE, or 
by AMEXTIPE on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be 
taken or executed by the Director General of AMEXTIPE, or such other person or persons 
as the Director General shall designate in writing, and AMEXTIPE shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Hasan Tuluy 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
Page  5
AGENCE MAURITANIENNE D'EXECUTION DES
TRAVAUX D'INTERET PUBLIC POUR L’EMPLOI
By /s/ Bilal Ould Werzeg 
Authorized Representative
