Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                      CREDIT NUMBER 2706 MAU
                                                      CREDIT NUMBER 2706 MAU
                            Development Credit Agreement
                           (General Education V Project)
                                      between
                          ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
                                        and
                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             Dated May 26, 1995
                                                     CREDIT NUMBER 2706 MAU
                                                      CREDIT NUMBER 2706 MAU
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
        AGREEMENT, dated May 26, 1995, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
MAURITANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
        WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
        WHEREAS (B) the Association has received a letter dated
November 6, 1994 from the Borrower describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to improve the
Borrower's education system (the Program) and declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; and
        WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
        NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                     General Conditions; Definitions
        Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
        Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
        (a)      "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
        (b)      "MEN" means Ministere de l'Education Nationale, the
ministry of the Borrower responsible for Education;
        (c)      "CTR" means Coordinateur Technique Regional, a
regional construction coordinator;
        (d)      "FAF" means Fonds d'Appui aux Filles, a fund to
promote female school enrollment to be established under the
Project pursuant to paragraph (1) (i) of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
        (e)      "MH" means Ministere de l'Hydraulique, the ministry
of the Borrower responsible for water distribution;
        (f)      "MF" means Ministere des Finances, the ministry of the
Borrower responsible for finance;
        (g)      "IEC" means Information, Education and Communication;
        (h)      "IPN" means Institut Pedagogique National, the
national pedagogical institute;
        (i)      "ENI" means Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs, a primary
teacher training institute;
        (j)      "DREF" means Direction Regionale de l'Enseignement
Fondamental, a regional department of MEN responsible for
primary education;
        (k)      "IDEF" means Inspection Departementale de
l'Enseignement Fondamental, the Departmental Inspectorate
responsible for primary education;
        (l)      "DEF" means Direction de l'Enseignement Fondamental,
a department of MEN responsible for primary education;
        (m)      "DES" means Direction de l'Enseignement Secondaire,
a department of MEN responsible for secondary education;
        (n)      "DP" means Direction du Personnel, a department of MEN
responsible for personnel;
        (o)      "DPC" means Direction de la Planification et de la
Cooperation, a department of MEN responsible for planning and
cooperation;
        (p)      "DPEF" means Direction des Projets Education et
Formation, a department of the Borrower's Ministry of Plan,
responsible for the coordination of education and training
projects;
Page  3
        (q)      "AET" means Agence d'Execution des Travaux, a local
construction management company;
        (r)      "ouguiya" and "UM" means the currency of the Borrower;
        (s)      "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower
which starts January 1, and ends on December 31 of each year;
and
        (t)      "Project Preparation Advance" means the advance
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated May 20, 1994 and June 4, 1994 between
the Borrower and the Association.
                           ARTICLE II
                           The Credit
        Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-three million eight hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 23,800,000).
        Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
        (b)      The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in ouguiyas a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
        (c)      Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
        Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
        Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
        (b)      The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual
date or at such other rates as may be set from time to time
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of
June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (c)      The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
Page  4
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of
that Section.
        Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
        Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
        Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each June 15 and December 15
commencing June 15, 2005 and ending December 15, 2034. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on December
15, 2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
        (b)      Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of
the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring
the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have
been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all
of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment
of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under
the above-mentioned repayment modification.
        (c)      If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly,
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
        Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                          ARTICLE III
                   Execution of the Project
        Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, education management and
architectural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
        (b)      Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the
Page  5
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
        Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (a) submit to the
Association, for its approval, an action plan, for: (i)
finalizing MEN's staff listing, including a list of staff
identified on MF's payroll as being included in MEN's budget but
not actually working for MEN; (ii) removal of staff not working
for MEN from MEN's budget; and (b) upon the approval of the
Association thereof, proceed thereafter to implement such action
plan in accordance with the timetable and modalities set out in
such action plan.
        Section 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall agree otherwise, procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
        Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
        (a)      prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association
a plan designed to preserve the achievements of the Project.
        (b)      afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
        (c)      thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking
into account the Association's comments thereon.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
        Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
        (b)      The Borrower shall:
                 (i)     have the records and accounts referred to in
                         paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                         for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                         audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                         principles consistently applied, by independent
                         auditors acceptable to the Association;
                (ii)     furnish to the Association, as soon as
                         available, but in any case not later than six
                         (6) months after the end of each such year, a
                         certified copy of the report of such audit by
                         said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                         as the Association shall have reasonably
                         requested; and
                (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                         information concerning said records, accounts
                         and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                         from time to time reasonably request.
        (c)      For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
                 (i)     maintain, or cause to be maintained, in
                         accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                         records and accounts reflecting such
                         expenditures;
                (ii)     retain, until at least one year after the
                         Association has received the audit for the
                         fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                         the Credit Account was made, all records
                         (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                         and other documents) evidencing such
                         expenditures;
                (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                         examine such records; and
                 (iv)    ensure that: (A) such records and accounts are
                         audited semian-nually according to the
                         procedures referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                         Section, (B) a certified copy of the auditor's
                         report be submitted to the Association within
                         six (6) months after the end of such semiannual
                         audit report; and (C) the report of such audit
                         contains a separate opinion by said auditors as
                         to whether the statements of expenditure
                         submitted during such auditing period, together
                         with the procedures and internal controls
                         involved in their preparation, may be relied
                         upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                   ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Association
        Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                                  ARTICLE VI
                           Effective Date; Termination
        Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
        (a)      the Borrower has employed the staff referred to in
paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement;
        (b)      the Borrower has submitted to the Association the
action plan referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement.
        Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
        Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  7
        Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
        For the Borrower:
                 Ministere du Plan
                 BP 238
                 Nouakchott
                 Mauritania
                 Cable address:                           Telex:
                         MP                                 540 MTN
                         Nouakchott
        For the Association:
                 International Development Association
                 1818 H Street, N.W.
                 Washington, D.C. 20433
                 United States of America
                 Cable address:                           Telex:
                         INDEVAS                             197688 (TRT),
                         Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA),
                                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                                              82987 (FTCC)
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                         ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
                         By /s/ Ismail Ould Yahi
                                                  Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                    Regional Vice President
                                                                     Africa
                             SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.      The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Credit Allocated                  % of
                                 (Expressed in                Expenditures
Category                        SDR Equivalent)             to be Financed
(1)  (a) Civil works               4,700,000                70%
          for Part A
Page  8
          (1) of the
          Project
     (b)  Other civil             4,450,000                 100%
          works and
          related equipment
(2)  Goods                        3,500,000                 100%
(3)  Textbooks                    2,500,000                 100%
(4)  Consultants'                 3,450,000                 100%
     services
(5)  Training                       550,000                 100%
(6)  Pilot operations               350,000                 100%
(7)  Operating costs              1,350,000                 100%
(8)  Refunding of                   600,000                 Amount due pur-
     Project Pre-                                           suant to Section
     paration Advance                                       2.02 (c) of this
                                                            Agreement
(9)  Unallocated                 2,350,000
                                ----------
           TOTAL                23,800,000
                                ==========
2.      For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating
costs" means the incremental costs arising under the Project on
account of salaries for contractual staff, office supplies,
fuel, vehicle maintenance, travel and subsistence expenses
during travel.
3.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.      It is understood that the percentages in the table in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule have been calculated on the basis
of the provisions in Ordonnance No 80-323 of December 10, 1980,
of the laws of the Borrower, which exempt the goods and works to
be financed from taxes and customs duties levied by the
Borrower. If any change is made to said Ordonnances which has
the effect of levying taxes or customs duties on such goods or
works, the percentages referred to above shall be decreased in
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
Conditions.
5.      The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures made for: (a) civil works, goods training,
textbooks, pilot operations and operating cost under contracts
not exceeding $150,000 equivalent; (b) for consulting firms
under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (c) for
individual consultants' services under contracts not exceeding
$50,000 equivalent; under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                              SCHEDULE 2
                      Description of the Project
        The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
implementing its 1995-2000 educational sector development
program through: (a) expanding access to primary and secondary
education in general, and for girls in particular; (b) improving
the quality and efficiency of education at all levels; and (c)
strengthening sector planning, management and resource use.
Page  9
Part A:   Primary Education
1.      Construction and Equipment
        (a)      Construction of about 1,430 new primary school
                 classrooms in underserved rural regions and periurban
                 areas of Nouakchott;
        (b)      construction of auxiliary buildings and improvement
                 of water supply for about 200 schools; and
        (c)      supply of furniture and equipment for the new
                 classrooms referred to under subparagraph (a).
2.      Textbook Supply
        (a)      Improvement of student access to textbooks through
strengthening of the existing system, acquisition of about one
million textbooks, and evaluation of the said system's
performance.
        (b)      Training of IPN staff in textbook development and publishing.
3.      Curriculum Improvement and Teacher Training
        (a)      Support in curriculum development through: (i) a
program to evaluate curricula and textbooks; (ii) a revision of
the social environmental studies program; and (iii) capacity
building in curriculum development.
        (b)      Support in teacher training through: (i)
rehabilitation of ENI in Nouakchott to improve pre-service
training; (ii) development of a pilot program to improve in-
service teacher training; and (iii) development and
implementation of training modules for double-shift and
multigrade classroom teaching.
Part B:    Secondary Education
1.      Construction
        Construction of about 120 classrooms for colleges, with
accessory facilities, in small urban centers without existing
facilities.
2.      Improvement of Instruction in Core Subjects
        (a)      Supply of educational aids through the acquisition of:
(i) approximately 240,000 textbook and teachers' guides in
mathematics, science and language and strengthening of the
existing book distribution system; (ii) science kits and the
corresponding training for teachers.
        (b)      Evaluation of the cost effectiveness of science
teaching between classes using kits and those using laboratory
teaching;
        (c)      Rehabilitation or construction of approximately twenty
school libraries and supply of the initial book stock for such
libraries.
Part C:    Private Schools
1.      Establishment of a unit in MEN to promote private
schooling.
2.      Construction of, and supply of equipment to, a pedagogical
center in Nouakchott.
Part D:    Higher Education
1.      Rehabilitation and/or construction of buildings for the
Page  10
University of Nouakchott's two faculties of art and science and
its rectorate, and acquisition of equipment.
2.      Training of suitable staff of said University in
administrative, librarian and planning skills.
3.      Preparation of a long term development plan for higher
education.
Part E:    Improving Female Participation in Education
1.      Adoption of policies and administrative regulations apt to
promote female participation in, and access to, post-primary
education.
2.      Carrying out: (a) a teacher information and education
campaigns; (b) a pedagogical improvement program; and (c) an
awareness campaign directed at parents in targeted areas
relating to the importance of girls' education.
3.      Carrying out pilot interventions and instituting FAF in
five selected administrative Regions.
Part F:    Strengthening Sector Planning and Management
1.      MEN
        (a)      Improvement of facilities through: (i) construction
of offices for seven DREFs and ten IDEFs; (ii) acquisition of
equipment for the offices referred to under subparagraph (i) and
for the offices of DEF; DES; DP; DPC and IPN; and (iii)
logistical support to the directorates enumerated under
subparagraph (ii).
        (b)      Improvement of educational statistics and
corresponding staff training.
        (c)      Carrying out a technical audit to analyze the
organization and resources of MEN and preparation of an action
plan, acceptable to the Association, to improve, inter alia: (i)
the sector's resource management; (ii) the elaboration of a
curriculum; and (iii) the implementation of in-service teacher
training.
2.      IPN
        Assistance from institutions, acceptable to the
Association, technically qualified in the development of
evaluation skills relative to: (i) student achievement in
primary school; (ii) gender bias in textbooks; and (iii)
efficiency of revised teaching programs.
3.      DPEF
        Strengthening of DPEF through:
        (a)      Rehabilitation of the DPEF office and provision of
furniture, equipment and vehicles;
        (b)      Provision of five senior DPEF staff to coordinate
implementation activities.
                            *   *   *
        The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
                               SCHEDULE 3
                  Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  11
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
1.      Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and
in accordance with the following additional procedures:
        (a)      When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Association's prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part E.2 (a) of this
Section, the Association's prior approval will be required for:
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period
of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
        (b)      For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide
that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be
increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken
into account in the bid evaluation.
        (c)      In the procurement of goods and works in accordance
with this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for
the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.      To the extent practicable, contracts for works and goods
shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of: (i) $250,000 or more for works; and (ii) $150,000
or more for goods.
3.      All goods shall be exempt from pre-shipment price
inspection by a third party inspection firm.
Part B:    Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
        In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
the Islamic Republic of Mauritania may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:    Preference for Domestic Contractors
        In the procurement of works in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant
a margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:    Other Procurement Procedures
Page  12
1.      Subject to paragraph 2 hereof, civil works other than under
Part A.1 of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $6,100,000, and items or groups of items of goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,700,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.      (a)      Civil works under Part A.1 of the Project estimated
to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $7,700,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least two suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
        (b)      Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.      Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
        (a)      With respect to each contract for: (i) works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more; and (ii) goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d), shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
        (b)      With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract, together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant
to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
        (c)      The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.      The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
Page  13
in August 1981. For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by
the Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to contracts
for the employment of consulting firms and individual
consultants, estimated to cost each less than $100,000
equivalent and $50,000 equivalent, respectively. However, said
exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a)
the terms of reference for such contracts or the employment of
individuals; (b) single source selection of firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Association; or (d) amendments to contracts raising the contract
value to above the aforementioned prior review thresholds.
                              SCHEDULE 4
                         Implementation Program
1.      The Borrower shall:
        (a)       maintain DPEF, which shall be responsible for Project
Coordination and shall assist MEN in preparing reports and
documentation required by the Association under this Agreement;
appoint professionals whose qualifications and experience shall
be acceptable to the Association as: (i) Director, (ii)
Administrator, (iii) Project Manager; (iv) Architect/
Implementation Specialist, and (v) Accountant for DPEF and
adequate support staff in sufficient numbers throughout Project
implementation unless otherwise mutually agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association.
        (b)       appoint and maintain throughout Project
implementation, unless otherwise mutually agreed upon between
the Borrower and the Association, three suitably qualified and
experienced CTRs responsible for community mobilization,
training of local artisans and primary school construction
supervision;
        (c)       throughout Project implementation, maintain a
suitably qualified and experienced auditor to carry out the
audits referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement;
        (d)      prepare draft regulations, acceptable to the
Association, to facilitate the establishment of private schools
and their administration through, inter alia: (i) access to
public land; (ii) exoneration from customs duties on necessary
imported educational materials and supplies;
        (e)      establish and maintain during Project implementation
an adequately staffed private school unit in MEN headed by a
qualified officer in MEN, to promote private education;
        (f)      take all necessary action to: (i) meet the monitoring
indicators for Project performance as set forth in the
Attachment to the Program; and (ii) comply with the
Implementation Plan.
        (g)      maintain the agreement No. 855 signed on October 31,
1994 between MEN and MH for the provision of services for the
primary school water supply program acceptable to the
Association, and ensure that such agreement shall not be
assigned, amended, abrogated or waived without prior approval of
the Association;
Page  14
        (h)      adopt policies and administrative regulations to
encourage female enrollment in, and completion of, the primary
education cycle and access to post-primary education;
        (i)      establish and maintain the FAF, in accordance with a
procedural manual acceptable to the Association, with the
objective of promoting female primary education enrollment in
the selected Regions and undertake not to assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the stipulations in such procedural manual
without the prior approval of the Association;
        (j)      for purposes of Part D.3 of the Project, implement the
preparation of a long term development plan for higher
education, acceptable to the Association;
        (k)      sign a management contract with AET acceptable to the
Association, for the management of all construction works under
the Project other than under Part A.1 of the Project; and
undertake thereafter to comply with, and enforce its contractual
rights under, the said management contract, and not to assign,
amend, abrogate or waive such contract without prior approval of
the Association;
        (l)      carry out the audit referred to in Part F.1 (c) of the
Project within 12 months after the Effective Date, submit the
findings thereof to the Association and, based on said findings,
establish and implement an action plan satisfactory to the
Association; and
        (m)      process procurement operations under International
Competitive Bidding Conditions and Local Competitive Bidding
Conditions, respectively, as set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement with due diligence and, in particular: (A) within four
(4) weeks from bid opening, transmit to the Association
documentation as set forth in paragraph (2) (b) of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
(B) within four (4) weeks from the receipt of the Association's
non-objection to the proposed contract, have said contract
signed.
2.      (a)      The Borrower and the Association shall jointly
undertake, not later than November 30 of each year, an in-depth
review of Project implementation (hereinafter referred to as
annual review or, in the case of the review to be held not later
than November 30, 1997, midterm review), and in the course of
which they shall exchange views on all matters related to the
progress of the Project, the Program and the performance by the
Borrower of its obligations under this Agreement, including, but
not limited to: (i) status of monitoring indicators for Project
performance; (ii) progress in implementation of policy measures
and their impact on staffing, cost and efficiency of the
educational system, including double-shift teaching in urban
schools and multi-class teaching in rural schools, lowering
repetition rate in primary schools, recruitment, classroom
presence and training of teachers, and the effectiveness of the
primary school textbook procurement and distribution system;
(iii) efficiency of primary school construction and parents'
ability to contribute to financing; (iv) results of the pilot
program to improve female schooling and the performance of FAF;
(v) progress in expansion of operating private schools and
efficiency of the private school unit in MEN; (vi) progress in
capacity building in curriculum development; (vii) efficiency of
science teaching; (viii) progress in the preparation of a long
term development plan for higher education; (ix) the progress
reports and expenditure statements of the current year referred
to under subparagraph (d) of this paragraph; and (x) the DPEF
work program and budget for the following year.
        (b)      Not later than two months prior to the midterm review,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its comments,
a report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
Page  15
request, on the progress and status of the Project and the
Program, and giving details, in particular, of the matters to be
addressed at the midterm review and referred to in subparagraph
(a) of this paragraph, including proposals, if any, to improve
the effectiveness of Project implementation.
        (c)      Following the midterm review, the Borrower undertakes
to promptly and diligently take any corrective action deemed
necessary to remedy any shortcomings noted in the implementation
of the Project, or to implement such other measures as may have
been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association in
furtherance of the objectives of the Project and the Program.
        (d)       Without limitation to Section 9.06 of the General
Conditions and to the preceding subparagraphs (a), (b) and (c)
of this paragraph, the Borrower shall, throughout the period of
implementation of the Project, furnish to the Association for
its review and comments, not later than April 30 and October 30
during Project implementation, semiannual reports on the
progress and implementation of the Project, including: (i)status of Project 
implementation indicators; (ii) summary of
implementation progress of each Project component enumerated in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (iii) financial statements of
Project expenditures; (iv) updated procurement and
implementation schedules; and (v) status of contract
advertising, bidding awards and completion dates.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                             Special Account
1.      For the purposes of this Schedule:
        (a)      the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
        (b)      the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
        (c)      the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $700,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals (from the Credit Account plus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions) shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR
1,500,000.
2.      Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.      After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
        (a)      For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits into the Special Account which do not
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Page  16
Borrower shall have requested.
        (b)       (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                         Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                         requests for deposits into the Special Account
                         at such intervals as the Association shall
                         specify.
                 (ii)    Prior to, or at the time of each such request,
                         the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                         the documents and other evidence required
                         pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                         payment or payments in respect of which
                         replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                         such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                         of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                         Account and deposit into the Special Account
                         such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                         and as shall have been shown by said documents
                         and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                         Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.      For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
        (a)      if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
        (b)      if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01
(b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special
Account; or
        (c)      if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
        (d)      once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Page  17
6.      (a)      If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
        (b)      If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
        (c)      The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
        (d)      Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
