CREDIT NUMBER 2706 MAU
Agreement Providing for
Amendment and
Restatement of
Development Credit Agreement
(General Education V Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 26, 1995
As Amended and Restated on  2  1996


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2706 MAU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                , 1996, between ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA (the Borrower), and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower and the Association have agreed to amend the
Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association, dated May 26,
1995 (the Development Credit Agreement), in the manner hereinafter set forth
(Amendment);
(B)    the Association and the Agence Mauritanienne d'Ex6cution des Travaux
d'Inter6t Public pour l'Emploi (AMEXTIPE) have agreed to enter into a Project Agreement
of even date herewith;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated
in its entirety so as to read as set forth in the Annex hereto.
Section 1.02. This Agreement shall become effective upon receipt by the
Association of a legal opinion within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions asserting that the AMEXTIPE Project Agreement has been duly signed by
AMEXTIPE and is legally binding upon AMEXTIPE in accordance with its terms.


﻿-2-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿ANNEX
to Agreement providing
for Amendment and
Restatement of Develop-
ment Credit Agreement
dated May 26, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2706 MAU
Development Credit Agreement
(General Education V Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 26, 1995
As Amended and Restated on           21 , 1996


﻿Annex
Page 1
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 26, 1995, as amended by Agreement (the Amendment)
and Restatement on  +l   z    /   2 Z          , 1996 between Islamic Republic of
Mauritania (the Borrower) and International Development Association (the Association).
WIIEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)    the Association has received a letter dated November 6, 1994 from the
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve the
Borrower's education system (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to
the execution of the Program;
(C)    Part of the Project will be carried out by Agence Mauritanienne
d'Execution des Travaux d'Inter6t Public pour l'Emploi (AMEXTIPE) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to AMEXTIPE
part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(D)    the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement
and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
AMEXTIPE;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Developnent Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:


﻿Annex
Page 2
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the
territories of any country which is not a member of the Association or for
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for
the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)    "AMEXTIPE Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and AMEXTIPE of even date with the Amendment, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
AMEXTIPE Project Agreement;
(b)    "By-laws" means the internal regulations of AMEXTIPE;
(c)    "Convention" means the Agreement, signed on December 9, 1992, between the
Borrower and AMEXTIPE, as amended pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement and
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes the Manual of
Procedures and all annexes, schedules and attachments thereto and to the Convention;
(d)    "CTR" means Coordinateur Technique R6gional, a regional construction
coordinator;
(e)    "DEF" means Direction de l'Enseignement Fondamental, a department of MEN
responsible for primary education;
(f)    "DES" means Direction de l'Enseignement Secondaire, a department of MEN
responsible for secondary education;
(g)    "DP" means Direction du Personnel, a department of MEN responsible for
personnel;


﻿Annex
Page 3
(h)    "DPC" means Direction de la Planification et de la Coop6ration, a department of
MEN responsible for planning and cooperation;
(i)    "DPEF" means Direction des Projets Education et Formation, a department of the
Borrower's Ministry of Plan, responsible for the coordination of education and training
projects;
(j)    "DREF" means Direction Rgionale de l'Enseignement Fondamental, a regional
department of MEN responsible for primary education;
(k)    "ENI" means Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs, a primary teacher training institute;
(1)    "FAF" means Fonds d'Appui aux Filles, a fund to promote female school
enrollment to be established under the Project pursuant to paragraph (1) (i) of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement;
(m)     "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower which starts January 1 and
ends on December 31 of each year;
(n)    "IDEF" means Inspection D6partementale de l'Enseignement Fondamental, the
Departmental Inspectorate responsible for primary education;
(0)     "IEC" means Information, Education and Communication;
(p)     "IPN" means Institut P6dagogique National, the national pedagogical institute;
(q)     "Manual of Procedures" means the Manuel de Procedures used by AMEXTIPE to
govern its operations with third parties, which Manuel is annexed to the Convention, as the
same may be amended from time to time by AMEXTIPE, and such term includes all
annexes, schedules and attachments supplemental to the Manual of Procedures;
(r)     "MEN" means Minist6re de l'Education Nationale, the ministry of the Borrower
responsible for Education;
(s)     "MH" means Minist6re de l'Hydraulique, the ministry of the Borrower responsible
for water distribution;
(t)    "MF" means Minist6re des Finances, the ministry of the Borrower responsible for
finance;


﻿Annex
Page 4
(u)    "Ouguiya" and "UM" means the currency of the Bonower;
(v)    "Project Preparation Advance" means the advance granted by the Association to
the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated May 20, 1994 and June 4, 1994
between the Borrower and the Association.
(x)    "Special Account" means any one of the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement; and
(y)    "Statuts" means the Articles of Agreement of AMEXTIPE;
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty-three million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 23,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A, B, C, D, E and F of the
Project, open and maintain in Ouguiya a special deposit account (Special Account A); and
for the purposes of Part G of the Project open and maintain in Ouguiya a special deposit
account (Special Account B); both in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay
the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of


﻿Annex
Page 5
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such
later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as
of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on
June 15 and December 15 each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall repay
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15 and
December 15, commencing December 15, 2005 and ending December 15, 2034. Each
installment to, and including the installment payable on December 15, 2014 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.


﻿Annex
Page 6
(b)    Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid.
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include,
in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of
interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-
mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project and Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, education management and architectural practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph(a) of this Section and
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry


﻿Annex
Page 7
out Parts A, B, C, D, E and F of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) cause AMEXTIPE to carry out Part G of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and to perform, in accordance with the provisions
of the AMEXTIPE Project Agreement, all the obligations of AMEXTIPE therein set forth;
and (ii) take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources necessary or appropriate to enable AMEXTIPE to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) submit to the Association, for its approval, an
action plan, for: (i) finalizing MEN's staff listing, including a list of staff identified on MF's
payroll as being included in MEN's budget but not actually working for MEN; (ii) removal
of staff not working for MEN from MEN's budget; and (b) upon the approval of the
Association thereof, proceed thereafter to implement such action plan in accordance with
the timetable and modalities set out in such action plan.
Section 3.04. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services for the Project, and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Association and the Borrower hereby agree that:
(a)    the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, et 9.05, of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, respectively) shall be carried out by AMEXTIPE in respect to Part G of the
Project; and
(b)    the obligations set forth in Sections 9.07 and- 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by the Borrower in respect to all Parts of the Project.
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:


﻿Annex
Page 8
(a)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the Association, and
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Program's objectives; and
(b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section including those for the Special Accounts A and B for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association;
(ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:


﻿Annex
Page 9
(i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures;
(ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the
audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such records;
and
(iv)   ensure that: (A) such records and    accounts are audited
semiannually according to the procedures referred to in paragraph
(b) of this Section, (B) a certified copy of the auditor's report be
submitted to the Association within six (6) months after the end of
such semiannual audit report; and (C) the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted during such auditing period,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, may be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the following
additional events are specified:
(a)    a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, cr a
significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)    as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement,
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that AMEXTIPE or the Borrower will
be able to perform their obligations under the Convention;


﻿Annex
Page 10
(c)    the Convention has been amended, suspended, abrogated, or waived so as
to affect materially and adversely the ability of AMEXTIPE to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement, or the Convention, as the case may be;
(d)    the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction have taken any
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of AMEXTIPE, or for the suspension of its
operations;
(e)    AMEXTIPE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement;
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the following
additional events are specified:
(a)    the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower, and
(b)    any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)    the Borrower has employed the staff referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3
to this Agreement;
(b)    the Borrower has submitted to the Association the action plan referred to in
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿Annex
Page 11
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for planning is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6re du Plan
BP 238
Nouakchott
Mauritania
Cable address:             Telex:
MP                          540 MTN
Nouakchott
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United' States of America
Cable address:             Telex:
INDEVAS                      197688 (TRT),
Washington, DC               248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿Annex
Page 12
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
By                    /l
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                        /*
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿Annex
Page 13
SCIEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) (a) Civil works                  4,700,000                70%
for Part A (1)
of the Project
(b) Civil works and             4,800,000                 100%
supervision for
Part (G) of the Project
(c) Civil works for               100,000                 100%
Part F (3) of the Project
(2) Goods                            2,800,000                 100%
(a) Goods for Part                700,000                 100%
G of the Project
(3) Textbooks                        2,500,000                 100%
(4) Consultants'                     2,800,000                 100%
services
(a) Consultant's services         200,000                 100%
for Part G of the Project
(5) Training                          600,000                  100%


﻿Annex
Page 14
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Categoy                     SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(6) Pilot operations                 350,000                  100%
(7) Operating costs                 1,400,000                100%
(a) Operating costs for          400,000                 100%
Part G of the Project
(8) Refunding of                      600,000         Amount due pur-
Project Pre-                                      suant to Section
paration Advance                                  2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(9) Unallocated                     1,850,000
TOTAL                      23,800,000
2.     (a)  For the purposes of Category 7 (a) of this Schedule, the term "operating
costs" means the incremental costs arising under the Project on account of salaries for
contractual staff, office supplies, fuel, vehicle maintenance, travel and subsistence expenses
during travel; and
(b)  for the purposes of Category 7 (b) of this Schedule, the term "operating
costs" means the incremental overhead costs of AMEXTIPE.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.     It is understood that the percentages in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule
have been calculated on the basis of the provisions in Ordonnance No 80-323 of December
10, 1980, of the laws of the Borrower, which exempt the goods and works to be financed
from taxes and customs duties levied by the Borrower. If any change is made to said
Ordonnances which has the effect of levying taxes or customs duties on such goods or


﻿Annex
Page 15
works, the percentages referred to above shall be decreased in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions.
5.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures made for: (a) civil works, goods
training, textbooks, pilot operations and operating cost under contracts not exceeding
$150,000 equivalent; (b) for consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000
equivalent; and (c) for individual consultants' services under contracts not exceeding
$50,000 equivalent; under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.


﻿Annex
Page 16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in implementing its 1995-
2000 educational sector development program through: (a) expanding access to primary
and secondary education in general, and for girls in particular; (b) improving the quality and
efficiency of education at all levels; and (c) strengthening sector planning, management and
resource use.
Part A: Primary Education
1.     Construction and Equipment
(a)    Construction of about 1,430 new   primary school classrooms in
underserved rural regions and periurban areas of Nouakchott;
(b)    construction of auxiliary buildings and improvement of water supply for
about 200 schools; and
(c)    supply of furniture and equipment for the new classrooms referred to under
subparagraph (a).
2.     Textbook Supply
(a)    Improvement of student access to textbooks through strengthening of the
existing system, acquisition of about one million textbooks, and evaluation of the said
system's performance.
(b)    Training of IPN staff in textbook development and publishing.
3.     Curriculum Improvement and Teacher Training
(a)    Support in curriculum development through: (i) a program to evaluate
curricula and textbooks; (ii) a revision of the social environmental studies program; and (iii)
capacity building in curriculum development.
(b)    Support in teacher training through: (i) rehabilitation of ENI in Nouakchott
to improve pre-service training; (ii) development of a pilot program to improve in-service


﻿Annex
Page 17
teacher training; and (iii) development and implementation of training modules for double-
shift and multigrade classroom teaching.
Part B: Secondary Education
1.     Supply of educational aids through the acquisition of: (i) approximately 240,000
textbook and teachers' guides in mathematics, science and language and strengthening of
the existing book distribution system; (ii) science kits and the corresponding training for
teachers; and (iii) the initial book stock for approximately twenty rehabilitated or
constructed libraries under Part G of the Project, as the case may be.
2.     Evaluation of the cost effectiveness of science teaching between classes using kits
and those using laboratory teaching;
Part C: Private Schools
Establishment of a unit in MEN to promote private schooling.
Part D: Higher Education
1.     Training of suitable staff of said University in administrative, librarian and
planning skills.
2.     Preparation of a long-term development plan for higher education.
Part E: Improving Female Participation in Education
1.     Adoption of policies and administrative regulations apt to promote female
participation in, and access to, post-primary education.
2.     Carrying out: (a) a teacher information and education campaigns; (b) a pedagogical
improvement program; and (c) an awareness campaign directed at parents in targeted areas
relating to the importance of girls' education.
3.     Carrying out pilot interventions and instituting FAF in five selected administrative
Regions.


﻿Annex
Page 18
Part F: Strengthening Sector Planning and Management
1.     MEN
(a)    Improvement of facilities through, inter alia: (i) acquisition of equipment
for the offices for seven DREFs and ten IDEFs for which offices are constructed under Part
G of the Project; and for the offices of DEF; DES; DP; DPC and IPN; and (ii) logistical
support to the directorates enumerated under subparagraph (i).
(b)    Improvement of educational statistics and corresponding staff training.
(c)    Carrying out a technical audit to analyze the organization and resources of
MEN and preparation of an action plan, acceptable to the Association, to improve, inter
alia: (i) the sector's resource management; (ii) the elaboration of a curriculum; and (iii)the
implementation of in-service teacher training.
2.     IPN
Assistance from institutions, acceptable to the Association, technically qualified in
the development of evaluation skills relative to: (i) student achievement in primary school;
(ii) gender bias in textbooks; and (iii) efficiency of revised teaching programs.
3.     DPEF
Strengthening of DPEF through:
(a)    Rehabilitation of the DPEF office and provision of furniture, equipment
and vehicles;
(b)    Provision of five senior DPEF staff to coordinate implementation
activities.
Part G: Construction of Secondary, and Higher Educational, Facilities
1.     Construction of 20 colleges (with a total of about 120 classrooms), with accessory
facilities, (such as administrative offices, sanitary installations, bordering walls and housing
for guards) in small urban centers without such facilities.


﻿Annex
Page 19
2.     Rehabilitation of 15 college school libraries and construction of 5 such college
school libraries.
3.     Rehabilitation of ENI at Nouakchott and its examination center.
4.      Construction of a documentation center (Centre de Ressources) for the private
school sector in Nouakchott.
5.     Construction of seven (7) DREFs and ten (10) IDEFs.
6.     Rehabilitation and/or construction, as the case may be, of buildings for the
University of Nouakchott's two faculties of art and science and its rectorate, and acquisition
of equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.


﻿Annex
Page 20
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.    Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:       International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
1.     Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections
I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the following additional
procedures:
(a)    When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period,
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete the
evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The bid
validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the request
for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in
the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid
price shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With respect to each contract
made subject to the Association's prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part E.2
(a) of this Section, the Association's prior approval will be required for: (i) a first extension
of the bid validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any
subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
(b)    For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13
of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by
two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
(c)    In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the


﻿Annex
Page 21
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.     To the extent practicable, contracts for works and goods shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of: (i) $250,000 or more for works; and (ii)
$150,000 or more for goods.
3.     All goods shall be exempt from pre-shipment price inspection by a third party
inspection firm.
Part B: Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Islamic Republic of Mauritania may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C: Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part
A. 1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D: Other Procurement Procedures
1.     Subject to paragraph 2 hereof, civil works other than under Part A. 1 of the Project
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $6,100,000, and items or groups of items of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $150,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$1,700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.     (a)    Civil works under Part A. 1 of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent
of $10,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $7,700,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least two suppliers eligible under the Guidelines in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.


﻿Annex
Page 22
(b)    Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)    With respect to each contract for: (i) works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $250,000 or more; and (ii) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d), shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in riespect of such contract.
(b)    With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract,
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)    The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.     The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix I to
the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the


﻿Annex
Page 23
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard
form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section, the provisions of the
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall
not apply to contracts for the employment of consulting firms and individual consultants,
estimated to cost each less than $100,000 equivalent and $50,000 equivalent, respectively.
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts or the employment of individuals; (b) single source selection of
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Association; or
(d) amendments to contracts raising the contract value to above the aforementioned prior
review thresholds.


﻿Annex
Page 24
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.     The Borrower shall:
(a)    maintain DPEF, which shall be responsible for Project Coordination and
shall assist MEN in preparing reports and documentation required by the Association under
this Agreement; appoint professionals whose qualifications and experience shall be
acceptable to the Association as: (i) Director, (ii) Administrator, (iii) Project Manager; (iv)
Architect/ Implementation Specialist, and (v) Accountant for DPEF and adequate support
staff in sufficient numbers throughout Project implementation unless otherwise mutually
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)    appoint and maintain throughout Project implementation, unless otherwise
mutually agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association, three suitably qualified
and experienced CTRs responsible for community mobilization, training of local artisans
and primary school construction supervision;
(c)    throughout Project implementation, maintain a suitably qualified and
experienced auditor to carry out the audits referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)    prepare draft regulations, acceptable to the Association, to facilitate the
establishment of private schools and their administration through, inter alia: (i) access to
public land; (ii) exoneration from customs duties on necessary imported educational
materials and supplies;
(e)    establish and maintain during Project implementation an adequately staffed
private school unit in MEN headed by a qualified officer in MEN, to promote private
education;
(f)    apply the policies, procedures and arrangements specified in the Project
Implementation Plan, and 'shall not amend said Plan, or any part thereof, in a manner
which, in the opinion of the Association, would materially and adversely affect the
implementation of the Project; and maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable
MEN to monitor and evaluate, on an ongoing basis, and in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the Association, the carrying out of Parts A, C, E and F of the Project and
the achievement of the objectives thereof;


﻿Annex
Page 25
(g)    maintain the agreement No. 855 signed on October 31, 1994 between
MEN and MH for the provision of services for the primary school water supply program
acceptable to the Association, and ensure that such agreement shall not be assigned,
amended, abrogated or waived without prior approval of the Association;
(h)    adopt policies and administrative regulations to encourage female
enrollment in, and completion of, the primary education cycle and access to post-primary
education;
(i)    establish and maintain the FAF, in accordance with a procedural manual
acceptable to the Association, with the objective of promoting female primary education
enrollment in the selected Regions and undertake not to assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the stipulations in such procedural manual without the prior approval of the Association;
(j)    for purposes of Part D I of the Project, implement the preparation of a long
term development plan for higher education, acceptable to the Association;
(k)    carry out the audit referred to in Part F 1 (c) of the Project within 12
months after the Effective Date, submit the findings thereof to the Association and, based
on said findings, establish and implement an action plan satisfactory to the Association; and
(1)    with respect to goods and works to be procured under international or
local competitive bidding conditions, as the case may be: (i) within four (4) weeks from bid
opening, transmit to the Association documentation as set forth in paragraph (2) (b) of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) within
four (4) weeks from the receipt of the Association'- non-objection to the proposed contract,
have said contract signed.
2.     (a)    The Borrower, AMEXTIPE and the Association shall jointly undertake,
not later than November 30 of each year, an in-depth review of Project implementation
(hereinafter referred to as Annual Review or, in the case of the review to be held not later
than November 30, 1997, Midterm review), and in the course of which they shall exchange
views on all matters related to the progress of the Project, the Program and the performance
by the Borrower of its obligations under this Agreement, including, but not limited to: (i)
status of monitoring indicators for Project performance; (ii) progress in implementation of
policy measures and their impact on staffing, cost and efficiency of the educational system,
including double-shift teaching in urban schools and multi-class teaching in rural schools,
lowering repetition rate in primary schools, recruitment, classroom presence and training of
teachers, and the effectiveness of the primary school textbook procurement and distribution


﻿Annex
Page 26
system; (iii) efficiency of primary school construction and parents' ability to contribute to
financing; (iv) results of the pilot program to improve female schooling and the
performance of FAF; (v) progress in expansion of operating private schools and efficiency
of the private school unit in MEN; ; (vi) AMEXTIPE's management, notably, its adherence
to its Statuts, its By-laws, and its Manual of Procedures, and AMEXTIPE's fee structure;
(vii) the performance by AMEXTIPE and the Borrower of their respective obligations
under the Convention; the performance of AMEXTIPE shall be measured in terms of
performance indicators set forth in the Manual of Procedures; (viii) progress in capacity
building in curriculum development; (ix) efficiency of science teaching; (x) progress in the
preparation of a long term development plan for higher education; (xi) the progress reports
and expenditure statements of the current year referred to under subparagraph (d) of this
paragraph; and (xii) the DPEF work program and budget for the following year.
(b)    Not later than two months prior to the Midterm review, the Borrower shall,
jointly with AMEXTIPE, furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, a report,
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress and status of the
Project and the Program, and giving details, in particular, of the matters to be addressed at
the Midterm review and referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, including
proposals, if any, to improve the effectiveness of Project implementation.
(c)    Following said Midterm review, the Borrower shall undertake, and cause
AMEXTIPE to undertake promptly and diligently any corrective action deemed necessary
to remedy any shortcomings noted in the implementation of the Project, or to implement
such other measures as may have been agreed upon between the Borrower, AMEXTIPE
and the Association in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
(d)    Without limitation to Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and to the
preceding subparagraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this paragraph, the Borrower shall, throughout
the period of implementation of the Project, furnish to the Association, and cause
AMEXTIPE to furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, not later than
April 30 and October 30, semiannual reports on the progress and implementation of the
Project, including: (i) status of Project implementation indicators; (ii) summary of
implementation progress of each Project component enumerated in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement; (iii) financial statements of Project expenditures; (iv) updated procurement and
implementation schedules; and (v) status of contract advertising, bidding awards and
completion dates.


﻿Annex
Page 27
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) (a) and (c); ((2) (a);
(3) (4) (a); (5); (6); and (7) (a) with respect to Special Account A; and Categories (1) (b),
(2) (b), (4) (b), and (7) (b) with respect to Special Account B, set forth in the table in
paragraph I of Schedule I to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term  "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,300,000 in respect to Special Account A, and an amount equivalent to $700,000 in
respect to Special Account B, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into
the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule provided, however, that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to
an amount equivalent to $700,000 in respect to Special Account A, and an amount
equivalent to $400,000 in respect to Special Account B, until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals (from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions) shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 500,000 for expenditures
under Part G of the Project, and SDR 1,000,000 for all other expenditures.
2.     Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as
follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits into the respective Special
Account which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the


﻿Annex
Page 28
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)     (i)   For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Association
shall specify.
(ii)  Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special
Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports


﻿Annex
Page 29
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of
the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible
Categories for the respective special Account, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation for each Special Account.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.    (a)     If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the respective Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.


﻿Annex
Page 30
(d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FO SECRETARY


