Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9177
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EUDCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1318-BD)
DECEMBER 5, 1990
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
BMDC        Bangladesh Management Development Center
BMET        Business Management Education and Training Project
CRC         Curriculum Review Committee
DCA         Development Credit Agreement
EDP         Executive Development Program
FNC         Fellowship Nominating Committee
GOB         Government of Bangladesh
IBA         Institute of Business Administration
IDA         International Development Agency
MA          Master of Arts
MBA         Master of Business Administration
MCom        Master of Commerce Degree
MUCIA       Midwest Universities Consortium for International Activities
PSC         Project Steering Committee
RCSC        Research and Case Studies Committee
SFYP        Second Five-Year Plan
UGC         University Grants Commission
Fiscal Year (FY) of Borrower
July 1 - June 30



THE WORLD BANK                FOR omCL USZ ONLY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of DOectqw-G.erI
Opatmw% Ivaluatinn
December 5, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report:  BANGLADESIJ - Business Management
Education and Training Proiect - (Credit 1318-BD)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Bangladesh - Business Management Education
and Training Project (Credit 1318-BD)" prepared by the Asia Regional
Office, with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No
audit of this project has !,en made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1318-BD)
Table of Contents
Paae No.
Preface        ...................................... .....................
Evaluation Summary .................................                                 iii
PART I        PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity .....  ................. .. ..............              1
Project Background ...................                                   1
Project Objectives and Descriptions ...................                  2
Project Design and Organization ................... ... .                2
Project Implementation ......          .....................             3
Major Results of the Project ........... . ..............                5
Project Sustainability ......           ..........................       6
IDA Performance .............          *.........................        7
Borrower Performance ...... ............. ..............                 7
Project Relationship ......           ............................       8
Consulting Services ......           .............................       8
Project Documentation and Data              ........................     8
PART II       PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER PERSPECTIVE
Introduction            ..........................................       9
Project Background ....................................                  9
Structure of the Project .............................                  11
The Development Credit Agreement .....................                  13
The UGC/MUCIA Contract              ................................    17
The Project Proforma of the Five Institutions .........                 23
Significant Accomplishments of the Project .......   o ....             36
Summary of Problems, Rationale and Lessons
to be Learned .......        ...............................         37
PART III      STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Credits .        .     ......................  .           47
Project Timetable .... o          ................................      47
Credit DA bursements ............ ....         ...................      48
Project Implementation ......           ..........................      49
Project Costs and Financing .....           ......................      50
Project Results                     .........  52
Status of Credit Covenants .....           .......................      52
Use of Bank Resources . . ...............          .......              54
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (contd.)
ANNEXES
1.  Project Inputs and Goals for Chittagong University  .....     55
2.  Project Inputs and Goals for Rajshahi University   .......    58
3.  Project Inputs and Goals for Dhaka University ..........      61
4.  Project Inputs and Goals for BMDC ....    ..................  63
5.  Project Inputs and Goals for IBA ....    ...................  65



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1318-BD)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Business
Management Education and Training Project in Bangladesh, for which Credit
1318-BD in the amount of SDR 7.3 million (US$7.8 million equivalent) was
approved on January 18, 1983. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1989, one
year and a half behind schedule. The Credit was 81% disbursed and the last
disbursement was on May 2, 1990. The balance of SDR 2.0 million (US$2.6
million equivalent) was cancelled on May 2, 1990.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Population and Human Resources
Division of the Asia Country Department I, Asia Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during IDA's final supervision
mission of the project during July 1989, and is based, inter alia, on the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); the Development Credit Agreement (DCA);
supervision reports; correspondence between IDA and the Borrower; interviews
with management and staff of the participating institutions; and internal IDA
memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1318-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Proiect Obiettives (para. 21 The objectives of the Project were to:
(a) improve the quality, content and relevance of existing (i) graduats and
post-graduate level business management education, and (ii) post-experience
business management training programs; (b) promote linkage and interaction
between management educators and researchers; (c) foster development of
business management literature and teaching materials reflecting Bangladesh's
institutional and environmental settings; and (d) increase the overall supply
of graduate, postgraduate and trained business management personnel.
2.    Implementation Experience (Section E)  Implementation was significantly
affected by: (a) initial construction delays; (b) slow start of the
fellowship program; (c) inadequate quality and utilization of consultants by
the participating educational institutions; (d) delays and lack of preparation
of annual proposals for research and case studies; (e) lack of annual
internships program reports; (f) lack of authority of the University Grants
Commission (UGC) to effect changes at participating institutions and, finally
(g) non-return of overseas trained faculty.
3.    Results (Section F)  The project fell short of its stated objectives.
The first objective, related to the improvement of the quality, content and
relevance of graduate and post-graduate level business management education
and post-experience business management training programs was not met due to:
(a) the non-return of 53% of the overseas trained faculty, (b) partial changes
in the curricula, (c) insufficient improvement of the teaching facilities and
(d) the problems surrounding the consultancy program. The objective of
promoting linkages and interaction between management educators, researchers
and business, was only partially achieved due to difficulties with the
industrial internships. The objective of developing business management
literature and teaching materials reflecting Bangladeshi issues and concerns
was achieved, even though the number of case studies and research projects
was below SAR targets. Overall, the supply of graduate, post-graduate and
trained business management personnel has not been significantly affected by
the project as some of the programs in the five participating institutions
have had increased enrollments while other programs have not expanded as
planned.
4.    Sustainabilitv (Section G)  The two major benefits expected from the
project relate to the improvements in the quality of management education and
training and to the increase in the physical capacity of the managewent



- iv -
education and training institutions to help meet the critical shortfalls of
properly trained managerial manpower in Bangladesh. This project will
contribute to improving the education of business and management graduates who
are being employed by the Bangladeshi public sector and are increasingly being
sought after by new private businesses, multinational firms and international
organizations. Despite its accomplishments, the project did not fully achieve
its objectives and it has therefore contributed only partially to the
attainment of the stated benefits. The participating institutions still lack
a group of strong and qualified teaching staff, improved curricula, sufficient
up-to-date teaching materials, improved teaching equipment and an overall
capacity to produce an expansion in the business management programs.
5.    Findinas and Lessons Learned  The major findings and lessons learned are
three:
(a)   Time spent in involving project participants during project
preparation is a necessary, if not sufficient condition for
effective implementation. The late decision to add the Faculties
of Commerce and the BMDC to the project precluded obtaining
recommendations from a wide range of faculty ranks affecting the
type and length of their fellowship placements, appropriate
inducements for their participation in case study and research
activities, and the development of equipment lists more
appropriate to their real needs.  Additional preparation time with
faculty of these institutions would almost certainly have reduced
the problems the project authorities experienced;
(b)   When faculty are being given fellowships for degree related
education in academic subjects that can result in high paying jobs
overseas, financial and social sanctions alone are not effective
in reducing "brain drain." Project officers should investigate
the merit of requiring return to in-country academic institutions
after completion of PhD coursework. The MBA program could have an
overseas coursework component, but in both the MBA and PhD
programs, the degree would be issued by the in-country university;
and
(C)   Voluntary coordination of autonomous institutions is not a
sufficient condition to achieve the cooperation necessary for the
achievement of project goals. If there cannot be direct
supervisory authority in a project (in this case, because of the
autonomous nature of the academic institutions) then the project
design should include a careful assessment of the reward
structures within the project design. Care needs to be taken to
better assure that the rewards for compliance with project
objectives are strong enough to provide a reasonable chance that
actions will be taken in a timely manner.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
(Credit 1318-BD)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE
A. Proiect Identitv
- Project Name:   Business Management Education and Training
Project
- Credit No.:     1318-BD
- RVP Unit:       Asia Regional Office, Country Department I
- Country:        Bangladesh
- Sector:         Education
- Subsector:      Business Management Education and Training
B.  Proiect Background
1.          After Bangladesh achieved its independence, the Government
nationalized most of the commercial and industrial enterprises that had been
owned and managed by non-Bangladeshis. The new 3vernment also created
additional enterprises. Therefore, the managemel: of the productive and
services sectors as well as most financial intermediaries in Bangladesh became
largely the responsibility of the public sector, with the private sector
gradually increasing its participation. As the Government was not able to
attract and retain the best qualified, ineffective managementI of these
enterprises turned out to be one of the critical factors inhibiting these
areas of development activities. The consequences were seen in the low
productivity and low capacity utilization in industrial enterprises,
operationally and financially inefficient public delivery of services, delays
in program implementation, and poor allocation of available resources.
Management improvement therefore, became a matter of increased priority for
the Bangladesh authorities and the external donor agencies. The Second Five-
Year Plan (SFYP) emphasized the importance of bringing about qualitative and
quantitative improvements in the management aspects and proposed the
development of an institutional base that would foster the growth of effective
education, training and research programs in (a) public administration and (b)
management of business and industrial enterprises. The Business Management
Education *-d Training Project (BMET) was designed to provide integrated
support for all levels of business management education and training programs
1 Defined as the lack of capabilities and efforts of organizations to
fulfill their tasks in an efficient, effective and responsible manner.



in Bangladesh in order to overcome some of the weaknesses noted.
Additionally, a separate Pub'Lic Administration Project (Credit 1349-BD)
designed to improve public administration training became effective in
November 1983 and is scheduled to close in December 1990.
C. Pro1ect Obiectives and Descrintions
2.          Project Objectives.  The project was designed to assist the
Government of Bangladesh (GOB) in effecting qualitative and quantitative
improvements in the country's business management capabilities by overcoming
some of the basic weaknesses and constraints in business management education
and training programs. Accordingly, the project objectives were to: (a)
improve the quality, content and relevance of existing (i) graduate and post-
graduate level business management education, and (ii) post-experience
business management training programs; (b) promote linkage and interaction
between management educators and researchers; (c) foster development of
business management literature and teaching materials reflecting Bangladeshi
institutional and environmental setcings; and (d) increase the overall supply
of graduate, postgraduate and trained business management persornel.
3.          Proiect Components.  Specific project components were:
(a)   Assistance to the IBA including a faculty development program;
technical assistance for curricula, instructional methods and
materials review; research and case development; library
development; equipment and civil works.
(b)   Development of the faculties of Commerce at the Dhaka, Chittagong
and Rajshahi Universities with the following elements: faculty
development and advanced training consisting of overseas degree
training and short-term industrial attachment; curriculum
development; research and case development; books, periodicals,
equipment and furniture; summer seminars for teachers; and post-
experience training programs.
(c)   Development of the Bangladesh Management Development Center (BMDC)
with the following assistance: staff development; curriculum
development; furniture and equipment; library development and
research and case development.
(d)   Implementation assistance to the University Grants Commission
(UCG) to assist in the planning, implementation and monitoring of
the above programs.
D.  Proiect Desian and Organization
4.          The project was first identified in broad terms in 1978 by an IDA
Education and Training Sector Review Mission. Following othAr review missions
and recommendations to the Government of Bangladesh (GOB), a revised Project
Brief was issued on February 24, 1981. The project was appraised during March
1981 and approved by the Board on January 18, 1983. To achieve the sectoral
and institutional upgrading objectives the project was designed to assist



-3-
selected institutions in upgrading the qualification and training of their
faculties, making changes in their curricula, course content, teaching methods
and pedagogy, and expanding and improving a few physical facilities. In
addition, the project provided for (a) an increase in the availability of
equipment, textbooks, journals and other instructional materials, (b)
strengthening of faculty research and faculty and (C) students' exposure to
problems of industry. Nearly 70% of the investments planned were for staff
development, curriculum changes, textbooks, research and overall pedagogical
improvements, while about 23% was allocated for expansion of physical
facilities at the Institute of Business Administration (IBA).
5.          The project was well prepared and a number of potential risks were
foreseen. The first related to the administrative authority of the
implementina agency. UGC did not bave the necessary authority to persuade the
participating institutions to, inter alia, supply the needed detailed program3
for research and case development for better coordination and programming, or,
to change their curriculum according to the full recommendations. Another
project risk was the need for close professional iuidance and supervision for
the proposed staff development and program improvement activities. To
minimize this risk, provision was made for a collaborative arrangement between
Bangladeshi and overseas institutions and UGC entered into the contract with
MUCIA to assist in the project implementation. Another foreseen potential
risk was the non-return of overseas trained faculty to their respective
institutions. As noted in Part II this was anticipated to be one of the major
problems of the project.
6.          The UGC was in charge of implementing the project and created a
Project Steering Committee (PSC) and appointed a Project Coordinator. The
Curriculum Review Committee (CRC), the Fellowship Nominating Committee (FNC)
and the Research and Case Studies Committee (RCSC) were also created to assist
the UGC in the project implementation. A Resident Coordinator appointed by
MUCIA, which provided the management of the fellowships program and the
consultants, assisted the Project Coordinator in the implementation of the
fellowship and technical assistance portions of the project. However, UGC
faced a number of implementation difficulties as the constituent educational
institutions had their own agendas, sometimes in conflict with those of the
UGC project coordinator. Management procedures were subsequently strengthened
as recommended by IDA with better reporting and project coordination.
7.          In hindsight, the project design should have taken into account
the need to provide for a number of foreseable problems, such as the fellows'
constraints to admission into graduate programs, the scheduling of the
expatriate consultants and the lack of a re-entry program for the faculty sent
abroad.
E. Proiect Implementation
8.          Credit Effectiveness.  The Credit was signed on March, 28, 1983
but did not become effective until September 16, 1983 when UGC had entered
into a contract with MUCIA and GOB had approved the PPs prepared by the five
participating institutions.



9.          Implementation schedule.  The original Credit closing date was
June 30, 1988, but this was extended twice to December 31, 1989, to allow
completion of construction work at IBA. The delays were due to design changes
in the construction and budget increases that in turn delayed the Planning
Commission final approval of the IBA PP. Initial problems in the
implementation of the project and disbursement lags were related to
construction delays and the slow start of the fellowship program. Civil works
at IBA were initially delayed but were eventually completed before the credit
closing date. Problems were encountered with the fellowship program and the
placements for overseas training and education in a wide variety of
institutions in the USA and other countries. The problems of delays in the
fellowship program were due in part to recruitment and placement difficulties
resulting from GOB age restrictions limiting overseas graduate work to those
under 35 years of age and poor placement test scores (GMATs). The quality and
utilization of consultants within the Bangladeshi educational institutions was
also inadequate. In light of this, the promotion of linkages and interactions
between management educators and researchers (Objective b) and the closer
institutional ties would not develop fully as had been expected.
10.         Initially, the case study and research program, the textbook
development activities and the curriculum review process did not encounter
major problems at the beginning. However, they needed extensive consultant
assistance and time to be completed. By the end of the project, 171 research
projects had been completed out of the SAR target of 190 (90% of the target).
Out of 850 case studies to be completed, 227 were finalized and the best of
these were published by the UGC in five volumes of case studies, namely:
(1) Accounting, Finance and Banking; (2) Business Management; (3) Marketing;
(4) General Management, Personnel, Production and marketing; and
(5) Accounting, Finance and Bank Management. The amounts paid for each case
were double or treble original estimates and the number of cases was
accordingly reduced to remain within the budgetary limits set by the Project
Proformas (PPs). Also, six management textbooks have been translated into
Bengali.
11.         The Project Coordinator at UGC did not have administrative
authority to effect timely production and submission of research and
fellowship proposals. As a result, the participating institutions did not
prepare and submit annual proposals for research and case studies by March
31st, contravening Section 3.09 of the DCA. Also, the Commerce Faculties did
not submit annual reports indicating plans for industrial and commercial
inte=nships by January 31, contravening Section 3.12 of the DCA.
12.         The fellowships program suffered from a slow start-up, but met its
planned targets by June 1989. The MUCIA-sponsored degree programs were
successful and the faculty that returned had a positive impact on the
campuses. However a significant number of the faculty (53%) sent on
fellowships did not return to Bangladesh. The consultancy program also faced
a number of difficulties, first in the recruitment of consultants with the
appropriate skills; later in relation to the consultants scheduling problems;
and finally through the impact of the increased campus disruptions due to the
political disturbances in Bangladesh.



-5-
13.         Disbursements.  Of the total Credit of SDR 7.3 million (US$7.8
million equivalent) 81% was disbursed in US dollar terms. The
underutilization resulted from the depreciation of the Taka vis-a-vis the US
dollar and, in Taka terms total expenditure exceeded the original SAR targets.
F. Maior Results of the Proiect
15.         Proiect Objectives.  In spite of the project accomplishments in
staff development, curriculum change, and recearch and case studies, as well
as the completion of physical facilities and provision of equipment,
furniture, vehicles and library books and journals, the project fell short of
reaching its educational objectives as noted below.
16.         The SAR noted that any attempt to improve the quality of
management education must start with rigorous and high quality advanced formal
academic training of selected faculty in relevant courses and in approriate
inbtitutions. liowever, only 47% of the faculty selected for overseas programs
returned to Bangladesh. In this regard, IBA has suffered the most, with 85%
of the faculty sent for study failing to return: three persons sent for PhD
programs have asked for extensions and of the faculty sent for MBA study,
three have requested leave to continue in PhD programs, two have returned to
IBA and 11 have been terminated. Most of the IBA faculty were former IBA
graduates who were hired to coincide with the fellowships program. Therefore
it is possible that they did not feel obligated to return to IBA. Moreover,
one of the returned faculty has not yet been absorbed by the University in its
normal cadre.
17.         Of the ten teachers sent by BMDC, eight have returned and are
currently teaching at BMDC. Within the three Commerce Faculties the results
of the fellowship program are mixed. All persons sent from Rajshahi
University have returned; at Dhaka University, seven out of 14 have not
returned and at Chittagong University, seven out of 11 have not returned.
However, only two faculty have been terminated while the other five are
expected to return. Even though these institutions require their overseas
fellows to return, it is not clear what methods will be utilized to accomplish
this. Thus the considerable "brain drain" from the country offset any major
quality improvements. In the case of non-degree trainees, all have returned
to their institutions.
18.         In the area of curriculum improvement, changes recommended by the
CRC resulted in some improvement at Chittagong, Dhaka and Rajshaji
Universities and at ISA, but none at BMDC. The reasons for this partial
implementation are, inter alia, the lack of authority on the part of UGC and
the CRC to cause the participating agencies to change the curriculum, the
difficulties with the changes by the respective faculties and, in the case of
BMDC, the lack of interest of the BMDC authorities.
19.         Teaching facilities such as equipment and library acquisitions
were either not sufficient or inappropriate. IBA did obtain a large number of
computers and their library acquisitions have been significant. However, the
single computer provided to each of the Faculties of Commerce soon became
obsolete and of no value. The teachers trained overseas were unable to teach



what they have learned on their management information systems courses. Other
equipment, such as overhead projectors and video systems, has not been used
for lack of complementary equipment, spare parts or space to install it.
20.         Research and case studies.   The targets set in the SAR were not
completely achieved even though this was a valuable part of the project. The
main problems related to the unrealistic expectations regarding the financial
incentives set up to reimburse the faculty for the cost involved in the
production of case studies and preparation of research projects. Other
reasons were the lack of a research tradition and interest among the faculty,
who are not held accountable for the quality of their courses, with no rewards
or punishments by the universities authorities.
21.         Closer links of business and academics to improve relevance was to
be achieved by the short-term industrial internship program for the faculty.
This was a difficult goal to accomplish because in most cases, companies would
not allow the faculty to fully become interns. The teachers eided up visiting
the companies only to gather data for their case studies.
22.         The improvements in curriculum, teaching materials and overall
environment were to be supported by advisory services from experienced, high
calibre management educators, trainers and researchers from centers of
excellence overseas. MUCIA consultants had the responsibility of reviewing
curricula and training materials, assisting in research and case writing and
providing advice as subject specialists. However, most MUCIA consultants came
to Bangladesh for short periods of time while the participating educational
institutions felt that a minimum stay of three months would have been more
beneficial. In this respect, it is hard to find academics who are able to get
away for more than six weeks and less than 6 months or a year from their
university jobs. The most appreciated results are related to the consultants'
help in the production and editing of case studies.
23.         Civil works.  Without the component for the expansion of the IBA
building, it would have been impossible to achieve the improvement of the
physical facilities, and the potential larger program that can be housed.
G. Proiect Sustainability
24.         The two major tenefits expected from the project were (a) the
improvements in the quality of management education and training and (b) the
increase in the Physical capacitv of the management education and training
institutions to help meet the critical shortfalls of properly trained
managerial manpower in Bangladesh. Quantitative expansion combined with
qualitative improvements would raise the standards of management in
Bangladesh, thereby alleviating a basic development constraint and providing
long term benefits for the economy. Since the project did not fully achieve
these objectives, it has contributed only partially to the attainment of the
expected benefits. The participating institutions still lack a group of
strong, qualified teaching staff, improved modern and relevant curricula,
up-to-date teaching materia.s and research development activities, improved
teaching equipment and better links with industry and commerce.



- 7 -
25.         As far as the quantitative expansion in terms of the physical
capacity of the institutions is concerned, IBA was expected to have the
capacity to produce about 240 MBAs and provide in-service training for about
900 high level managers in their Executive Development Programs(EDPs) annually
by 1986. Instead, in 1987-88 its MBA graduates totalled 63 and the EDP
participants totalled 539. Similarly, BMDC was supposed to provide in-
service training to over 2,300 mid-level and supervisory personnel annually by
1986 and also increase the number of trainees in Diploma Courses to 95 yearly.
Actual enrollment in BMDC short courses has decreased to 1,350 and enrollment
in Diploma Courses increased to 111 in 1988-90. EDP programs at Chittagong
University have not increased as expected. Rajshahi University held only one
EDP and none has been held at Dacca University.
H. IDA Performance
26.         originally, the project was prepared to support only IBA's
management education program and comprised proposals for construction work,
additional faculty, overseas fellowships and equipment. Subsequently, the
project was expanded to include the improvement and expansion of the
management training programs in the other government and semi-government
institutions (BMDC and the Faculties of Commerce). Although the SAR provided
substantive information and analysis on the issues confronted, it did not
appropriately provide detailed costings of the programs for the new
institutions included. There was also excessive emphasis on staff
development through the overseas fellowships component while the domestic
improvements, such as research and local internships, were not given enough
attention.
27.         Other design issues such as the selection, re-entry and retention
of the overseas graduates; the difficulties of getting the teachers placed in
MBA programs in American universities and the improvement of curricula and
teaching by the returned overseas fellows were not anticipated and planned for
in the project documents.
28.         IDA fielded eight supervision missions during the disbursement
period issuing aide memoires and following up on civil works and project
components. The Resident Mission in Bangladesh provided support and follow-
up for project supervision.
I. Borrower Performance
29.         The UGC was the implementing agency on behalf of GOB.  A Project
Steering Committee was created by UGC and a Project Coordinator was appointed
to coordinate and oversee the implementation of the project. In addition, UGC
and the MUCIA Resident Coordinator in Bangladesh worked together to facilitate
project implementation. Other committees were formed to facilitate curriculum
revision, nominations for fellowships and research and case studies. Although
different staff have served in these organizational units throughout the life
of tile project, project implementation was satisfactorily achieved. Some
problems existed, however, from the begining. The authority of UGC to cause
participating agencies to implement changes was weak, as most of the approvals
for the recommended changes had to follow university procedures. This



* a -
"theoretical authority" was also apparent with the difficulties UGC had in
requesting and obtaining agreed proposals and annual reports. In this regard,
covenants were partially fullfilled as seen in Table 9.
30.         The selection of MUCIA as UGC's partner or center of excellence,
versus the alternative of one single university overseas to look after the
improvement programs, resulted in a dispersal of efforts and logistical
difficulties with fellows attending 31 different universities in the USA,
United Kingdom and Australia. This dispersal was due to the slow start of the
NUCIA fellowship program. The tough entry requirements at American
universities and the "self-enrollment" of some trainees in Australian and
British program also contributed to the these results.
J. Proiect RelationshiD
31.         IDA relationship with the GOB and the UGC were good.  The UGC
relationships with the five participating agencies were difficult and
demanding. Persuasion was attempted in every instance.
K. Consultina Services
32.         Consultants played a major role in this project.  MUCIA entered
into an agrement with UGC to manage the overseas fellowships and provide
individual consultants for technical assistance. They appointed a Resident
Coordinator to help UGC in the prrject implementation tasks. They also
organized a Campus Coordination Office at the University of Illinois. MUCIA's
collaboration has had mixed reviews because:
(a)   some of the trainees have complained about MUCIA's lack of strong
logistical support during their placement and arrival, specially
within the United Kingdom;
(b)   some of the participating institutions believe MUCIA's role in the
provision of consultants with inappropriate skills and
insufficient time and committment to assist them, was inadequate.
Some of the visits by the subject specialists were no longer than
3-5 days per institution.
33.         On the other hand, many of the MUCIA consultants' recommendations
were not carried out. Overall, a longer term attachment of fewer consultants
would have been more successfull.
L. Proiect Documentation and Data
34.         Apart from the SAR, DCA and other legal documents, documentation
for this project was scarce. Recent supervision reports were helpful and
complete. The PCR mission was able to interview more than 40 authorities and
faculty involved from all participating institutions. The completion of Part
II of this Project Completion Report and the provision of project data were
timely and complete.



PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER PERSPECTIVE
A. Introduction
35.         In March 28, 1983 the International Development Association (IDA)
entered into a Development Credit Agreement (DCA) with the Government of
Bangladesh, represented by the University Grants Commission (UGC). Among the
pre-conditions for this agreement to go into effect were that the UGC would
have entered into a contract with an academic or management institution
overseas which would provide assistance in managing a fellowship program and
providing consultants for the five Bangladesh management training institutions
which are the recipient institutions of this credit agreement. In
satisfaction of this pre-condition, on July 25, 1983 the UGC entered into a
contract with the Midwest Universities Consortium for International Activities
(MUCIA).A second pre-condition was that the Government would have approved the
Project Proforma prepared by the five recipient institutions. These Project
Proforma were completed and approved in June 1983.
36.         This project evaluation report is to serve two purposes.  The
first is to be a final report, to the UGC, under the terms of the UGC/MUCIA
contract, to evaluate the performance of MUCIA in following the provisions and
achieving the goals of that contract. The second purpose of this report is to
serve as a final report by the UGC, to the IDA, in compliance with the terms
of the Development Credit Agreement. It will constitute Part II of the
Project Completion Report, Parts I and III to be prepared by the IDA.
37.         This report will first provide a brief background to the project
(Part B) to serve as a context to appreciate the project design, and then
describe the organizational structure of the project, to better understand its
implementation (Part C). The DCA will then be reviewed (Part D) and an
analysis made as to the degree to which the UGC met its responsibilities, and
problems encountered in dealing with the recipient institutions, with other
Government agencies and with the IDA. It will also comment on the performance
of IDA in administering the project. The UGC/MUCIA contract will then be
analyzed (Part E), including an evaluation as to the degree to which MUCIA
adhered to the contract pros icns and achieved its objectives, and a
discussion of the problems a icou tered. The Project Proforma of the five
recipient institutions will then be discussed (Part P), including an
evaluation of the degree to which each institution achieved its goals. Part G
will be a summary of the significant accomplishments of the project. Part H
will be a retrospective assessment of the project, summarizing its problems,
the reasons for those problems, and the lessons to be learned.
B. Proiect Background
38.         Prior to the time when Bangladesh achieved its independence, most
of the commercial and industrial enterprises were owned and managed by non-
Bengalis. During the war of independence most of these owners and managers
left the country. In the several years following independence the government



- 10 -
nationalized all of these companies and also began to create new, government-
owned enterprises. All of these had to be managed by individuals with little
or no experience or training in management. As a consequence, during the
'S?O's productivity of the government enterprises suffered, but also few new
privately-owned enterprises were created.
39.         The World Bank recoanized that this lack of trained managers was
an impediment to development in general and to project implementation in
particular. Consequently, during the 1970's several Bank projects had some
management-related training written into them.
40.         The forerunner of this project was identified in 1978 for possible
inclusion as part of another longer but non-related project. It was decided
that a management education project was not a logical fit with a primary
education project and so it was finally not included. The project at that
time, was at the initiative of IBA and included assistance only to the IBA.
In July and August of 1980 a project identification team prepared a plan for a
management education project which would include not only the IBA, but also
the three Faculties of Commerce, the BMDC, the BSCIC and the three major
public sector corporations (Jute Mills Corp., Textile Corporation, and the
Agricultural Development corp.). The Bank's appraisal mission, in March 1981,
eliminated assistance to the BSCIC and the three public sector corporations
and refined the details of the assistarnce to the IBA, BMDC and the three
Faculties of Commerce.
41.         In February 1982 the Bank issued its Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
for the project--the Business Management Education and Training (BMET)
project. Finally, as noted in the Introduction to this report, on March 28,
1983, IDA and the UGC signed the Development Credit Agreement to fund the
project.
42.         The need for management education was exemplified in the SAR by
noting that there were, in 1978, about 9,000 existing managers (above
supervisory level) who needed training through management development
programs, and that by 1990 an additional 13,000 managers would be needed.
43.         Meanwhile, the IBA, while producing high quality MBA's, was only
producing 40 or 50 per year and training about 500 managers per year in its
short courses. Its faculty of 23 were well trained (all but three had foreign
degrees and s;x had PhD's), but it was too small to be a significant factor.
It had to expand capacity and also find a way to increase output.
44.         The BMDC had 42 faculty members, but only six had foreign degrees.
On average, about 500 participants, mostly existing managers and supervisors,
were taking BMDC courses each year. This number had increased to nearly 1,200
per year, during the several years in the late 1970's that ILO experts were
teaching at the center, but subsequently decreased to the previous level of
about 500. The need for BMDC's type of training was very great and so the
staff and facilities needed increasing and the staff needed additional
training.



- 11 -
45.         The three Faculties of Commerce (at Dhaka University, Chittagong
University and Rajahahi University) were producing a large number of MCom
graduates each year (500 from DU; 300 from CU, and 350 from RU). However, the
reputation of their graduates was not very good and many had difficulty
getting jobs at graduation. There were high student-to-faculty ratios (22 to
1 at DU and CU; 29 to 1 at RU). A small percentage of the faculty members had
foreign degrees (12% in the Faculties of Commerce, compared to 32% university-
wide). Also, there was a shortage of teaching materials, classroom equipment,
and library holdings. As to curriculum and faculty structure, only DU had
shifted to a semester system, but its curriculum was still fairly traditional
and each department operated independently, teaching all courses to its
students. Meanwhile, CU and RU were still operating along the lines of
traditional Faculties of Commerce, with year-long papers and with subsidiary
papers taught by outside departments. Finally, it should be noted that, of
the three Faculties of Commerce, only DU had an active program of organizing
in-service training courses, and these enrolled about 500 managers per year.
C. Structure of the Proiect
46.         Figure 1 shows an organization chart of the project, the basis for
the DCA between IDA and the UGC. The UGC created a Project Steering Committee
(PSC) made up of the Chairman of the UGC plus the Directors and Deans of the
five recipient institutions and a representative each from the Ministry of
Industry, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Finance, and the External
Resources Division of the Planning Commission. The Chairman of the UGC
appointed a Project Coordinator in April 1983 to coordinate and oversee the
implementation of the project.
47.         To include the project as part of the GOB planning process, eac..
of the five recipient institutions had to prepare Project Proformas, which
were approved by the Planning Commission.
48.         A contract between the UGC and MUCIA gave the latter
responsibility for managing the fellowship portion of the project and for
providing the technical assistance (short-term consultants). MUCIA also
appointed a Resident Coordinator, to work with the Project Coordinator to
facilitate implementation of the fellowship and technical assistance portions
of the project.
49.         The curriculum revision objective of the project was coordinated
by the Curriculum Review Committee, having the same membership as the PSC plus
representatives from the business community.
50.         The PSC also created a Fellowship Nominating Committee to screen
the candidates who had been nominated by the five institutions. Its
membership consisted of the Chairman of UGC, the Project Coordinator, the
MUCIA Resident Coordinator, plus representatives from the Ministry of
Education and the Ministry of Finance. The PSC also created a Research and
Case Study Committee to review and approve requests for funding. Its
membership was the Project Coordinator, the MUCIA Resident Coordinator, the



FICURE I
PROJECT OSGANIZATIOIW STRUCTURE
-             ~~~~~~~-------------------
| -                                        -   -   - *-I  J
miHlli St Cyof     > _            
Finance                                                UCJContract                                                  |   (        51           \ 
~~flC*~~~   _              I
Hlsslatry of| 
< Education
UCIAect                         I   J  tSof *1
t~~~~~~ lsls y #  -trJctIariaoJ|                                                                                                                          1
- -                                                                                                                      - _
(  1  )F( lUOC  p               R*  M (cofCa_o



- 13 -
Dean of the Faculty of Commerce at Dhaka University, and the Directors of the
IBA and the BMDC.
51.         To make payments to the five institutions, or for the  UGC's BMET
project expenditures, IDA deposited funds in the Bangladesh Bank. These were
transferred, as needed, to a BMET Project checking account in the Sonali Bank.
The Project Coordinator then wrote checks against this account and requested
IDA to replenish the advance in the Bangladesh Bank. To reimburse MUCIA for
its expenditures, IDA opened a letter of credit, payable to MUCIA, in the
First National Bank of Chicago. MUCIA drew on that account on a quarterly
basis upon the presentation of vouchers for the expenses incurred. Finally,
BMDC and IBA came under the Ministry of Industry and received their Taka funds
from that Ministry, whereas the three Commerce Faculties received their Taka
funding from the Ministry of Edvzation, via the UGC.
D. The Development Credit Agreement
52.         This part of the report reviews the provisions of the DCA and
examines the extent to which the GOB, via the UGC, carried out those
provisions. It then comments briefly on the performance of IDA in
administering the agreement.
1.    The DCA specified that the following were pre-conditions for the
agreement becoming effective:
a.    UGC to establish a Project Steering Committee;
b.    UGC to appoint a Project Coordinator;
c.    UGC to enter into a contract with a foreign institution to
take responsibility for the fellowship and technical
assistance portions of this agreements;
d.    GOB to approve the Project Proforma of the five recipient
institutions.
The above four pre-conditions were fulfilled, as noted in the preceding
Part C.
2.    The five institutions maintained adequate records to monitor
progress and expenditures and to identify items purchased.
3.    Also, UGC did give IDA audited accounts within six months after
the end of each year.
4.    However, the five institutions failed to provide the UGC, by March
31 of each year, with a detailed program for research and case
development to be undertaken during the following year.
5.    Also, the three Faculties of Commerce failed to prepare, by
December 31 of each year, a detailed proposal for faculty members



- 14 -
to go on industrial internsh4ps during the following year.
6.    UGC did create a Curriculum Review Committee, which reviewed the
recommendations of the Curriculum Consultant, made changes in them
and then made specific detailed recommendations to the five
institutions. The DCA says that "this Committee is to cause the
implementing agencies to carry out the recommendations.,,
Unfortunately neither that Committee nor the UGC itself had the
authority to cause these institutions to change their curriculum,
which must be carried out by vote of the faculty members.
Consequently, as noted in Part F,only a few of the recommendations
were carried out.
7.    The IBA housing and dormitory facilities are being used
exclusively by IBA faculty, students, and management trainees.
However, the DU Engineering Department has responsibility to
maintain these buildings; not the IBA itself. It was noted that
the maintenance of the buildings is poor.
8.    The only change in the DCA was to extend the termination date from
30/6/88 to 30/6/89.
9.    The budget in the DCA specified certain funds for the UGC to add
three staff, to purchase equipment, furniture, and a vehicle, and
to pay for visits to the U.S. by the Project Coordinator and the
Deans and Directors of the five institutions. Table I shows UGC's
performance on these items.
TASE I
Prnie-ct irwuts to i.a.
Planned vs. Achie
1. Statf tincrents     1. Three persa          1. Tw follawiiq thre paremu wer
hired for ttm peoject:
Three persons for                               a. Ptoject <dintor
Tk 2.a Lac                                      b. Aistant ftojaot Coordhintor
c. Tpwist
The uC turnWid thn othet
peruaw (driver. peom wd perut-t
ant** tno its cwn ftsit.
2. Im latter thn will go bh to
thm tUOC attar the tirkstian ot
the project: the typist will be
absoed by the uW; thm Project
oodinstor ard the Aftistin
Project ordimtor will retire.
2. Equipent, furniture  typewiters (33   Tc.0.94 laoc
and vehicle for Project   photo cp maching (1) 0.6S lc
ottice in Lkc:      aciM bus (1)     4.20 lac
Tk 5 lac            furniture        082 lac
Ibtal           6.81 lac
3. Visits overns by Down   zero                   It    didd U_t thme Ad
dwuld not be utilird, base it
mild be very dittimalt to got an0
perimiamieaeh tim thet a trip
was R. aMmp.itly this type
ot travel ws finanid mit of the
funs for MUUA Cm  Office
Coordination eq4uui.



- 15 -
10.   The following items were indicated as the "Purposes" of the BMET
project. Accompanying each item is a brief comment regarding the
extent of accomplishment.
a.    Expand the physical facilities of the IBA.  This has been
accomplished, although there have been major revisions in
the plans and significant increases in cost. Also, the
contractor was late and the work was completed in December
1989.
b.    Provide furniture, equipment, vehicles, library materials,
and teaching aids. This has been essentially accomplished
for all institutions, except that the BMDC is still awaiting
the arrival of two vehicles and the IBA is awaitii.g a
significant amount of equipment and books.
c.    Provide technical assistance.  This item was reduced, as
agreed by all parties, and the funds redirected to
fellowships, as noted in Part Ee of this report. All
consultants requested were provided except for two
(agribusiness and quantitative analysis).
d.    Recruit faculty for IBA and BMDC, and staff for UGC.  The
IBA added 24 staff as specified and the UGC added three, as
specified. However, the BMDC added only 17 rather than 21.
Unfortunately, IBA has terminated 11 of the 24 due to their
failure to return from fellowship training.
e.    Provide fellowships.  The mix of PhD, MBA and short-term
fellowships had to be changed to meet the needs and
conditions, but the number of man-months of fellowships was
kept constant and was fully fulfilled. Unfortunately, as
noted in Parts H and F whereas all 28 of the short-term
fellows returned, none of the three PhD candidates has
returned and only 33 of the 63 masters candidates had
returned at the end of their study programs and up to August
1989.
f.    Provide industrial irternships and summer seminars for
Commerce faculty members. As planned, approximately two-
thirds of the members of the three Commerce faculties
undertook industrial internships. Also, each of the three
Commerce faculties organized a seminar each summer for five
summers, for 25-30 commerce teachers from the affiliated
colleges.
g.    Preparation of case studies and research project%.  The
amount to be paid for each case study and research project
had to be increased, resulting in a reduced and more
realistic goal for the number of cases and research
projects. The revised goals were nearly realized (171 out



- 16 -
of 190 research projects, and 227 out of 250 case studies).
11.   The DCA refers to the above seven items as the "purposes" of the
project. They should be thought of as the "means" to achieve the
real purpose. The real purpose should be "the improvement of
management education." As noted in Problem #14 in Part H this
purpose or goal has been achieved to only a very limited extent,
even though the seven purposes given above were essentially
accomplished.
12.   In summary, with the exception noted in 14 immediately below, it
is found that, where the UGC had the necessary authority, it
carried out its responsibilities well. Where the responsibilities
rested with the five institutions, the UGC (the Project
Coordinator) attempted to use persuasion, but this was often
inadequate, particularly as the IBA comes under the authority of
the Ministry of Industry and hence the UGC has no power
whatsoever.
13.   In April 1987, a workshop was organized, at the University of
Illinois for all of the consultants who had been involved in the
project plus the BMET project staff from MUCIA and UGC. They
reviewed the project objectives and what had been accomplished,
and identified what still needed to be done. The report of the
workshop contained 18 recommendations. They were all important
actions needed to help to accomplish the fundamental purpose of
this project. All of them required action by the UGC Project
Steering Committee and follow through by the various institutions.
Only three of the 18 recommendations were carried out.
14.   There is no reason to criticize the performance of IDA in
administering the project, with two exceptions as noted below.
Mr. Thomas C. Schmidt (from IDA/Washington) and Mr. Mir Bashir
Ahmed (from IDA/Dhaka) visited the project on a quarterly basis
and issued an aide-memoire summarizing their findings. IDA's
civil engineer visited the project every six months to review
progress on the civil work. The bank issued a Continuous
Reporting of Project Status (CROPS) report monthly, to indicate
progress and shortcomings. Deposits were made promptly in the
MUCIA account and in the Bangladesh Bank, upon presentation o.
invoices of funds expended.
15.   It is preferable, in general, for IDA via the Program Officer in
the Dhaka Office, to review the bidding process on contracts and
to review contracts, but an IDA review of faculty proposals for
research projects and case studies was unnecessary bureaucracy and
was sometimes a cause of delay.
16.   Also, as noted in Problem #13 of Part H, the CROPS reports are
misleading to the extent that they show project progress using the
indication of the percent of SDR's spent out of each budget line,



- 17 -
whereas MUCIA's expenditures are based on dollars and the five
institutions' PP's are based on Taka, calculated at the 1983
exchange rates.
E. The UGC/MUCIA Contract
53.         The contract between MUCIA and the UGC became effective as of 25
July, 1983 and was to run for five years. However, in early 1988 it was
amended to run for an additional year and terminate on June 30, 1989. There
were other modifications to the original contract, agreed upon by the two
parties and approved by the IDA, as will be noted below.
54.   As seen in Part C of this report MUCIA had:
a.    to manage the fellowship portion of the project;
b.    to provide the short-term consultants to respond to the technical
assistance portion of the project;
C.    to provide a Resident Coordinator, attached to the office of the
Project Coordinator, to assist in the implementation of the
fellowships and technical assistance; and
d.    to create a campus coordination unit at one of the MUCIA
universities to manage the contract implementation for WUCIA.
55.         Start-UP.  During the negotiations between MUCIA and UGC, it was
agreed that a letter of credit would be opened, to the account of MUCIA, by
IDA. However, after the contract was signed, IDA objected to the use of a
letter of credit, even though it was one of their approved methods of payment.
The letter of credit was finally opened on November 28, 1983.
56.         MUCIA entered into a sub-contract with the University of Illinois
on August 30, 1983 to set up a Campus Coordination Office to manage the
contract. However, as no funds had been made available to MUCIA, the
University of Illinois used its own funds to engage a campus Coordinator
(Project Director) and a Secretary, but they could not do any substantive work
or hire any consultants until the IDA had opened a letter of credit in favor
of MUCIA, which, as noted above, did not occur until November 28, 1983. Thus,
nearly four months were lost because of the delay in IDA opening the letter of
credit. The University of Illinois office then consisted of the Campus
'cordinator, a Training Coordinator, an Accountant and a Secretary.
57.         On December 17, 1983, the Campus Coordinator and a consultant went
to Bangladesh to develop the five-year operating plan. This plan, which was
the "inception report" required by the UGC/MUCIA contract, was agreed by UGC
and IDA in the Spring of 1984.
58.         MUCIA should have appointed a Resident Coordinator, to be located
in the UGC Project Coordinator's office in Dhaka, as soon as the contract was
signed. This also, could not be done because of the delay in IDA's letter of



- 18 -
credit. During the December 1983 visit to Bangladesh by the MUCIA Campus
Coordinator, three candidates for the post of Resident Coordinator were
interviewed. The one selected and proposed to the UGC in early 1984 was
vetoed by the UGC. This resulted in a further delay. Finally, MUCIA and the
UGC reached agreement on a Resident Coordinator and he was appointed on
September 1, 1984. This delayed appointment was one significant factor in the
delay of getting the fellowship program underway.
59.         The UGC finally organized its team visit to MUCIA and several
MUCIA universities in late November 1984. This team consisted of the
Deans/Directors of the five institutions. This visit was supposed to have
taken place in early Fall of 1983 and should have been a major input to the
inception report.
60.         The Fellowship Program.  Because of the delayed visit by the UGC
team, there were misconceptions by the UGC and by the heads of the five
institutions regardin.g the placement of faculty members in graduate programs.
There was a feeling that the MUCIA office could "place" individuals in
graduate programs regardless of the usual admissions policies and procedures.
The faculty members were reluctant to submit themselves to taking GMAT and
TOEFL tests. Most of those who did had very low scores on the GMAT.
61.         There were delays within the five recipient institutions in
nominating candidates for fellowships. Attempts were made to nominate persons
over the age of 35, even though the government had a policy against that.
There was also a misconception that teachers with an M Com from a Bangladeshi
University could be admitted directly into a PhD program in a U.S. university.
Only after the visit of the UGC team was it possible to remove all these
misconceptions.
62.         Meanwhile, because of the low GMAT scores or lack of GMAT scores,
some candidates applied directly to business schools in the U.K. and
Australia. When they gained admission, because of the pressures from the UGC
and IDA to speed up placement, MUCIA reluctantly agreed, even though most of
those MBA programs were structured quite differently from U.S. business
schools. MUCIA subsequently (May 1985) stated a policy against further
admissions in the U.K. and Australia.
63.         Regardless of the above problems, by the end of 1984 the UGC had
identified 50 degree candidates and MUCIA had written to the deans of over 200
business schools to inform them of the project and ask that, if possible,
special consideration be given to the admission of candidates from Bangladesh
when those applications were received.   From the beginning, MUCIA followed a
policy, of submitting five applications for each candidate: two to MUCIA
business schools and three to non-MUCIA schools. If all five resulted in
denials, more applications were sent to weaker, non-MUCIA schools. Thus, by
June 1985, 14 persons had started degree training; six more had been admitted
to begin in Fall 1985; 16 applications were pending at five or more schools;
and 15 candidates had submitted incomplete files (usually without GMAT
scores).



- 19 -
64.         Low GMAT scores continued to be a problem for placement.
Consequently, MUCIA took the initiative to have its Resident Coordinator
organize GMAT preparation workshops for candidates. These proved to be
beneficial. Examples of the benefit are shown by the following scores--
before and after taking the preparatory workshops:
Before          After            Before           Alter
230             250              280              400
230              320             370              430
240             270              290              410
250             290              420              540
260             310
65.         In summary. '_.a final GMAT scores of the participants were as
follows:
a.    Of the 16 who -tudied in the U.K. and Australia, six had not taken
the GMAT; the 'ther 10 had GMAT scores ranging from 280 to 380.
b.    For those admi'-ttd to AACSB accredited business schools in the
U.S., 11 had sco:-as over 500; 19 had scores between 400 and 500;
and 13 had scorer between 300 and 400.
c.    Only four persons went to non-accredited 6chools in the U.S.  They
self-applied and MUCIA agreed, because they had low GMAT scores.
66.         It should be noteL that it is generally very difficult for foreign
students to gain admission into one of the top 25 business schools (which,
includes the MUCIA schools) with a GMAT under 525, and very difficult to get
into any accredited school with a GMAT of less than 400.
67.        E'everal of the problems discussed above resulted in a need to
modify the fellowship portion of the UGC/MUCIA contract. As U.S. universities
would not accept a Bangladeshi MCom directly into their PhD program, the funds
allocated to PhD studies were decreased, permitting an increase in the number
of MBA and short-term fellowships. Thus, whereas the contract anticipated 15
Ph.D's, 58 MBA's and 6 ST fellowships for a total of 140 man-years, the
revised numbers were 3 Ph.D's, 59 MBA's and 32 ST for a total of 135 man-
years. These changes are shown in Table II.
68.         Of all the participants sent on degree fellowships, two MBA
candidates returned early (after three or four months) because of illness and
so did not complete their programs.  The-e were no academic failures.
69.         Of the 32 short-term fellowships, only 10 were sent to existing
programs. A special program for 12 participants was organized by MUCIA at
George W%shington University, in May-August, 1987. Another one-month special
program i'or 10 participants was organized by MUCIA, at various MUCIA
universit:'es, in the Spring of 1989.



- 20 -
TAME I I
Fel lhig;: Txketed vs. Actual
Relsion
Aftar
Oriairal JCIA Oontract  Revised 12/2/86  h  250.000  Acl
No. of  Fellowship                      No. ot
m           n/Yezs       ea
f F. D Ptum
4-year Pr-ar        4         16        11          11      3         11.3
3-year Proram       1          3
2-year Pruram      10        20
2-ye Prram          17        17                   105     50        105.7
105
1-year Proram       41       82                     10      9         10.1
Short-tenr Pmiram
1-4 Month Progam             i2        12          1J.
79       140       128         138     94        13S.3
70.         One of the criticisms of MUCIA's management of the fellowship
program was that it was not prepared to support participants in the U.K.
Checks initially arrived one or two months late and were difficult to cash.
Eventually arrangements were made to wire transfer funds. Also, amounts for
monthly allowances should have been set in pounds rather than in dollars so
that the varying exchange rate would not result in a varying monthly allowance
for the participant. This was eventually accommodated by changing the amount
of dollars transferred.
71.         Up to July 1986, MUCIA was not sending end-of-semester progress
reports to UGC. Also, MUCIA and UGC did not undertake to have study plans of
degree candidates prepared at the end of the first semester so that progress
could be checked against the plan. The participants' home institution could
not ascertain whether they were using electives appropriately.
72.         MUCIA submitted semi-annual status reports on fellowships and
consultancy services. Also, MUCIA was to make arrangements, where
appropriate, for participants to have practical training with business firms
in the U.S. This would have required an extension of every fellowship. It
was never discussed between MUCIA and the UGC Project Coordinator after the.
contract was signed, and was not implemented by MUCIA.
73.         Providina Consultants.  The other major responsibility of MUCIA
was to provide consultants to the five recipient institutions. MUCIA's
consultants were to: review the curriculum, pedagogy, and teaching materials;
assist in faculty research, case writing, and internships; and review IBA's
student recruitment methods and recommend methods to increase through-put.
All of these were done, but some to a very limited extent because of the
reduced time made available for consultancies.



- 21 -
74.         Note the following quotation from the June 1988 IDA Aide-Memoire,
regarding the MJCIA efforts to provide the consultants needed: "The
consultancy program has faced a number of difficulties. In the early years of
the project there were difficulties in recruiting consultants with the
appropriate skills to work in the varied conditions of the five constituent
institutions. In time this problem was solved, only to be replaced by severe
scheduling problems. As the expatriate consultants are drawn from full-time
university assignments to the MUCIA-related institutions, they have on.-ly the
longer between-term breaks in which to provide their services to the project.
In recent years the increased disruption of campus routine due to political
disturbances in Bangladesh has eroded the capacity of the constituent
institutions to make use of the consultants' available time. In fact, the
last consultant to visit the campuses was able to be effective only by living
on or near the campuses and holding meetings in his quarters to avoid the
political disturbances. In light of these difficulties, where the number of
planned consultancies will. be below that estimated at the time of the SAR, the
mission is satisfied that every reasonable effort is being made by MUCIA, the
UGC and the constituent institutions to make the best of the program under the
circumstances."
75.         The experiences referred to in the above paragraph led to the
decision to reduce the time allocated to short-term consultants from 35
man/months (m/m) to 22.6 m/m.  At the same time, it was recognized that,
because of the delayed appointment of the Resident coordinator, only 36 m/m
(out of the budgeted 48 m/m) of his services would be required.  This
permitted the shifting of $237,267 from consultancies to fellowships. The man-
months for consultants was not only reduced; it was also reallocated. Table
III shows the consultancies anticipated by the UGC/MUCIA contract, the revised
list contained in the five-year plan (inception report), and the actual. We
see that consultants for textbook editing had not been budgeted in the
contract nor in the five-year plan, but was added late in the project to meet
the need. Consultants for Agribusiness and QBA/OR were not in the contract
and were added by the five-year plan. Eventually they were not provided
because, either the consultants identified and submitted by MUCIA were not
acceptable to the Project Steering Committee, or the recipient institutions
could not agree on a time table that was acceptable to the consultants. With
those two exceptions, all consultancies were fulfilled by MUCIA.
76.         Table IV shows the dates, names, universities and subjects of all
of the consultancies. As will be seen in Part F of this report, the
consultancies most appreciated by the UGC and the recipient institutions were
those for curriculum revision, case writing, and research. However, among the
responsibilities of the consultants in general were that they would help to
develop programs to foster systematic exchanges and interfaces between the
recipient institutions, and between them and the business community. A review
of the work of the consultants shows that:
a.    MUCIA consultants recommended the creation of a Case Clearing
House in either the IBA or the Bureau of Business Research of
Dhaka University. This was not done.



- 22 -
TABLE SII
Allocation for MJCIA Cbrfu1tants
(PersonrHoths)
ALLOCATION                                 EVISED APIL 1987       ACTUAL
original:  in               Revised:  in 1983
oCntract                   in five-year plan
nhaka Coordination  48.0    ahaka COordination  48.0           36.0               36.0
(oesident)
Ou-riculum Review    5.0
Curriculum
Case Study           2.5     Developnent          4.0           2.0                 1.15
Research                     Case Stulies
Evaluation           2.5    and Research          6.0           6.0                7.57
Organization &               E.D.P.               2.0            3.0                2.93
M anageent           4.5
Mawnqe-nt            4.0           2.0                2.27
Marketing            4.5
Aocontirng           4.0           1.0                1.17
Finance              4.5
Finance              4.0           1.0                1.20
Crupter Science      6.0
Marketinq            4.0           1.0                1.23
Evaluation           1.0
M.I.S.               2.5           1.0                1.17
83.0
International
-Asiness             1.5           1.0                 .93
Entrepreneurship     1.0           1.0                 .07
Agri. Business       1.0           1.0                 -
QBA/OR               1.0           2.0  -
Textbook F'itityl     -             -                 1.31
t'valwLstion         _2.0-                            2.0
83.0          58.0               58.9
TAMLE TV
Short-wTeaoasllt
Dates                 Naea                          Subject                   Univeraity
1983                 Le  NbuIt            Preparation of Five-Year Plan          Ohio State
07/01/84-08/24/84    Lorn mbitt           Exeoutive Developent Ptngrame          Indiana thiv. (South Bad)
07/04/84-07/31/84    Victor Childers       Internaticnal aines'                  Indaa Univ. (Indinipo is)
07/06/84-08/04/84    Lea Nehtm            Entreprenewmahip                       Ohio State
12/17/84-01/23/85   Lta  Nbhrt            Curriculum Revision                  COio State
12/20/84-01/24/85   Jdcn Chandler         Oosputers & HIS                        Illinois
12/20/84-01/25/85    Joseph Fbimrty       Finane                                 Illinois
12/20/84-01/24/85    Peter Holzer         Aciouting                              Illinois
06/26/85-07/31/85    Winston Oberg        Panamgnt                                ichitgan State
07/18/85-08/21/85    Herbert Davis        Case Research                          George Wbadliotn
08/04/85-09/10/85    Lee Nehrt            Marketing and Int'l Buiness            Obio State
08/18/85-09/23/85    Guy HcLaan           EIDP                                   Himwoota
12/29/85-01/27/86    Richard Gonzalez     Operations Nuaaemenat                  Michigan State
06/14/86-07/23/86    Gary WClean          Case Studies & MDP                       inuesota
06/28/86-08/01/86    Herbert Cavis        Research                              G0aoaq Ibbiiqton
01/01/88-02/24/88    Gary McLean          Case Studies                           Kiniunota
06/26/88-07/29/88    Heubert Davis        Research                               Geop  aiington
12/04/88-01/01/89    Gary HcLean          Case Studies                           cimta
01/06/89-01/20/89    Gary Wean            E&liting 4 Vols. of Case Stwiies       1iiminota
01/06/99-01/20/89    3izaf fer hoi        Editinr 4 Vols. of Case Sttdies       IDA
06/26/89-08/25/89    Lee Nehrt            Project Evaluation                     Blialntan, ldiara



- 23 -
b.    MUCIA consultants recommended the creation of professional
associations in each of the four main disciplines (i.e., a
Bangladesh Marketing Association, etc.). This was not done.
c.    MUCIA consultants recommended the appointment, in each Faculty of
Commerce, of a full-time person to organize executive development
programs, so that activity would be institutionalized. This was
not done.
77.         Also, as noted in Part D of this report, in April 1987 MUCIA
organized a workshop at the University of Illinois, for all consultants who
had been involved with the project plus the BMET project staff of Illinois and
from the UGC, to review project objectives and what had been accomplished, and
to make recommendations as to what could and should still be accomplished
before the completion of the project. This resulted in 18 recommendations
aimed at accomplishing the goals of the project. Only three of these were
carried out.
78.         The Budget.  As noted earlier two changes were made in the budget
of the UGC/MUCIA contract. First, because of a decision to decrease
consultancies, and because of the higher-than-expected monthly costs of
fellowships, and the need for extensions to permit completion of degrees,
$237,267 were shifted from consultancies to fellowships. Second, $250,000
were added to the contract and allocated to fellowships. Thus, the total
contract was increased from the initial $3.6 million to the final $3.85
million. The latest calculations show that, at the end of the contract,
approximately $81,000 of fellowship funds and $33,000 of the consultancy funds
will remain unspent. The details are shown in Table V.
Table V
fstimated
Acbl                  Totl                E= -b
Expndiburs  obligaticns    umdire   a8ut     8alance
Fellowships    53,186,177    S 89,791    $3,275,968    $3,357,013   S 81,115
CeaSlita,cies   S 403,748    $ 56,123  $ 459,871    $ 492,917   $ 33,046
Totals      $3,589,925    5145,914    53,735,839   $3,850,000   $114,161
F.  The Proiect Proforma of the Five Institutions
79.         As noted earlier, in Part D, the Project Proforma (PP) for the
five institutions had been prepared prior to the start of the project in mid-
1983. All five PPs were subsequently revised to reflect that the project was
extended by a year. The PP of the BMDC also had to be revised to reflect that



- 24 -
no civil works were to be included as part of the BNET project. The IBA's was
revised to reflect significant changes in both the civil works and increases
in the budget for civil works and for equipment and furniture.
80.         For the three Faculties of Commerce, the PPs indicated the
objectives of the project to the following:
1.    Improve the education of the BCom and MCom students, via:
a.    an improved curriculum, with assistance from consultants;
b.    an improved structure of the Faculty of Commerce, to avoid
duplication of courses between departments;
c.    an improved grading system;
d.    an improved course content, with assistance from
consultants, and based on experience of fellowships;
e.    an improvement in the pedagogy of the faculty members, via:
* fellowship experience
* consultants' suggestions
* use of audio/visual equipment
* teaching materials improvement:
- more library acquisitions
- research projects by faculty, on local business
- case study research, writing, and use
- internships by faculty members
2.    Increase the number of executive development programs organized by
each Faculty of Commerce, and the cooperation between each Faculty
and other local management training centers.
81.         To achieve these objectives, the project provided a number of
inputs. Paragraphs 50-52 discuss the inputs to the three Faculties of
Commerce as envisaged by the Project Proforma, sometimes modified by IDA's
Staff Appraisal Report. They also indicate the degree to which the
quantitative inputs were achieved, with comments on each category.
82.         The primary objectives of the project for the BMDC were the
following:
1.    increase the number of participants in the training programs;
2.    revise the curriculum as deemed necessary;
3.    improve the pedagogy of the instructors.
To help achieve these objectives, the project provided a number of



- 25 -
inputs. Paragraph 53 below discusses these inputs as planned and as achieved
with comments.
83.         The primary objectives of the project for the IBA were as follows:
1.    to increase the number of participants in the IBA's Executive
Development Programs (EDP);
2.    to increase the output of MBA's by increasing the input and
decreasing the attrition rate;
3.    to revise the curriculum as deemed necessary.
Paragraph 84 below discusses these inputs, as planned and as achieved,
including comments.
84.         ChittaQona University (CU).  Annex 1 shows the project inputs and
goals for CU specified by the Project Proforma, the extent to which those were
obtained or achieved, and comments about problems or effects.
a.    There were three teachers sent for short term (ST) training and 11
for MBA's. Out of the 11 teachers sent for MBA's, only four have
returned to date. It is expected chat three to five more will
return after completion of Ph.D's, but there may be a net loss of
three teachers.
b.    As shown in Annex 1 only one computer was purchased.  They need 15
to 20 to have a computer lab to teach computer classes which are
now in the new curriculum. The new course on computers cannot yet
be implemented. Also, they should have been allowed to buy a TV
and VCR in place of a film projector. The system of purchasing
imported equipment needs to be improved so as to significantly
reduce costs and avoid paying import duties.
c.    Insufficient thought and insufficient assistance from consultants
was given to selection of books and journals for the library.
They do have sufficient journals in Management and Accounting, but
they need journals in such fields as Finance, Banking, Insurance,
Entrepreneurship, Marketing, and MIS to support new courses in the
curriculum.
d.    Research projects and case study research and writing were
satisfactory. However, the project design was defective in
estimating the level of fees (honoraria) to be paid for research
projects and case studies.
e.    Industrial internships were not really internships:  they served
as a vehicle to fund the costs of research.
f.    The number of EDP organized by the Faculty has not increased
beyond the one or two per year which took place prior to the



- 26 -
project. But, the Professors are far more active in teaching in
other business-related seminars and the business community is
getting more involved with the Faculty of Commerce.
g.    The Faculty voted to introduce the BBA (in place of BCom Honors)
and the MBA. This was approved by the University Senate in
September 1988 and by the UGC in January 1989. It became
effective March 15, 1989 with the new intake of students for this
academic year. The MBA program will go into effect in 1992 when
the current batch of BBA students graduate. The MCom degree will
continue, even after the MBA program starts, to accommodate
students coming in from affiliated colleges--which do not have BBA
programs.
The Faculty has shifted to a semester system and the grading
procedure now permits the instructor of each course to allocate 10
points (out of 50) to class attendance, performance on homework,
quizzes, and class discussion.
The first two years of the BSA program are devoted to "core"
courses, common to all students in all department. Such courses
are allocated to be taught by only one department, so that all
Marketing courses are taught by a Marketing professor, all
Accounting courses by an Accounting professor, etc.
The selection of courses in the new curriculum generally follows
those reczmmended by the Curriculum Committee of the UGC, except
that the core courses do not include "general studies" courses.
It should be noted that the Faculty of Commerce, the University
Senate and the UGC have approved the creation of new departments
of Marketing and Finance, but these have not yet received approval
of the Government's InterministLial Project Evaluation Committee,
after which they will need to be approved by the National Economic
Commission.
The Bangladesh Military Academy, located in Chittagong, with
advice from the Dean of the CU Faculty of Commerce, has changed to
the semester course system, with quizzes etc.
The Vice Chancellor of CU stated that he is encouraging, and
expects other Faculties at CU, to follow the example of the
Faculty of Commerce.
h.    The Faculty members felt that the best aspects of the BMET project
were:
(1) fellowships
(2) curriculum revision
(3) textbook writing



- 27 -
(4) experience and assistance in case writing and research
i.    The faculty members felt that the project design was deficient in
that it should have provided for:
(1)   a computer lab with 15 to 20 PCs;
(2)   a TV and VCR and a library of video cassettes on various
areas of business administration;
(3)   more short-term fellowships to permit one or two semesters
of study in the US, as part of the Ph.D program in Dhaka
University;
(4)   more textbook writing;
(5)   a formal reentry program for people returning from
fellowships;
(6)   the discipline-specific consultants in Management,
Accounting, Finance and Marketing to have spent two to three
months each at CU, during the last year of the project, to
gain the confidence of the faculty members and work with
them to develop new syllabi for the teaching materials, and
pedagogy. The four- or five-day visits followed by reports,
which were not made available to the faculty, were of little
use;
(7)   funding to help the university to hire additional faculty
members;
(8)   construction of a building for the Faculty of Commerce,
which now has grossly insufficient space.
j.    The key question is:  "How has the education of the student
changed as a result of this project?" The answer is: "Not very
much." The reasons are:
(1)   Insufficient classrooms and insufficient faculty members.
The size of classes range from 100 to 225, with students
frequently standing.
(2)   Lack of office space. There are two to four professors in a
single small office, and so there is no opportunity to meet
with students.
(3)   Lack of overhead projectors (only one provided--and no
screen) and no TV and VCR, therefore pedagogy has not
changed. The professor lectures, the students take notes.
(4)   Lack of coordination between library book purchases and



- 28 -
course offerings. For most courses the only textbook is the
one kept by the Professor, from which he lectures. Attempts
are made to permit students to photo copy parts of that
text, but this is woefully inadequate. It is difficult for
the Professor to assign homework reading as a basis for a
quiz and it is very difficult to have classroom discussion.
85.         Rajshahi University (RU).  Annex 2 shows the project inputs and
goals for RU specified by the Project Proforma, the extent to which these were
obtained or achieved, and comments about problems or effects.
(a)   100% of the 15 fellows sent abroad returned to RU.  All indicated
that they were pleased by the support given by MUCIA.
(b)   They were very pleased with the consultants for case studies and
research, but felt that as the subject matter consultants were
there for only three or four days, they were of no value. They
feel strongly that the consultants in Accounting, Management, and
Finance should stay for three months. The consultant on computers
should have come after the computer was received and should have
run workshops for the faculty members. Also, a consultant on
Statistical Analysis should have come and run workshops for the
faculty members.
(c)   They obtained all of the furniture and equipment as planned,
except for the film projector. An electric typewriter is a
needless sophistication and is not used. One overhead p-'jector
is of little benefit and had not been used. Most of the furniture
is in storage awaiting the avaiLability of a Faculty of Commerce
library.
(d)   The system of approval by IDA of the book purchasing agent and
then of the book lists, before books could be ordered, was very
cumbersome and resulted in an under-utilization of this budget.
The books received are now integrated into the stacks of the main
library, but there is a strong desire for the Faculty of Commerce
to have its own library and reading room in one of the three
Commerce Faculty buildings, but funds are required to renovate the
space.
(e)   Two-thirds of the faculty members were involved in research
projects, case studies, and industrial internships. This was a
valuable and successful part of the project. If a reasonable
honorarium were paid for case studies and research, there would be
less tendency to cheat on claiming expenses.
(f)   They had not organized any EDP prior to the project, but did one
in 1986 and another in 1988. Even though the business community
in Rajshahi District is somewhat limited, more could be done. It
should also be noted that they spent about TK 10,000 for each EDP
and feel that they need to subsidize the cost--that participants



- 29 -
would not attend if they had to pay a fee.
(g)   The summer seminars for teachers from affiliated colleges were
held each summer and deemed successful.
(h)   The Dean and his staff were over-burdened by the administration of
the project, which should have included support for them.
(i)   RU has no Bureau of Business Research and badly needs one.
(j)   No professional associations have been created and RU faculty feel
isolated.
(k)   Some improvement in pedagogy has occurred, in assigning some
homework, having some class discussion, and the occasional use of
a case, but much more of this needs to be done. They need more
textbooks in Bengali, more use of overhead projectors.
(1)   The size of the faculty has grown from 39 in 1983 to 52 now and
should be up to 70 within five years.
(m)   To manage the project, the Vice Chancellor appointed an
"Implementation Committee," chaired by the Dean of Commerce, the
members being the Dean of Science, the Dean of Arts, the four
department chairmen and all full professors in Commerce, and a
teacher from each department in Commerce.
(n)   To select candidates for fellowships, RU had a "selection
committee" chaired by the Vice Chancellor, the members being the
deans of Commerce, Science and Arts, and one full professor from
each department in the Faculty of Commerce.
(0)   In revising the curriculum they approved 12 "core courses" which
are common to all four department, 10 at BCom level and 2 at MCom.
However, this does not as yet have any meaning because each
department still teaches all courses to its students. Teachers
who were sent abroad for an MBA in a particular field have
returned and have been teaching courses in other fields.
Business Communications is required by the Department of Management and
Marketing but not by the others. It should be a core course.
All departments should have an Entrepreneurship course either as an
elective or as part of the core; none of them have it now.
The Department of Management should have a course in International
Business Management, and the Department of Finance should have a course
in International Finance.
There are no "general studies" courses in the curriculum.



- 30 -
86.          Dhaka University (DU).        A,anex 3 shows the project inputs and
goals for DU specified by the PP, the extent to which these were obtained or
achieved, and comments about problems or effects.
(a)   Out of 14 teachers sent for MBA's, only seven have returned.  of
the other seven, five are studying for a Ph.D on non-project
funds. It is expected that three will not return.
(b)   Only one computer was purchased.  It is still in storage.  They
need a computer lab with 25 PCs. Also, each department needs a
photo copy machine, two overhead projectors, and a TV/VCR.
(c)   Research projects and case studies were considered a valuable part
of the project and some are being used as teaching material. The
Tk 15,000 fee for a research study was not enough to undertake
projects requiring the gathering of primary data.
(d)   Industrial internships were used to gather data for a particular
research topic and they were not work-related internships. Only
35 teachers had internships, which was short of the 46 planned.
(e)   Rather than an increase in EDP (which had been training about 500
executives per year before the project), for the past five years
there have been no EDP. The Faculty needs a full-time Director of
EDP with his own secretary to be able to launch and operate a
significant number of EDP. It should be noted that the faculty
have voted to include four businessmen as "Members of the
Faculty," and four other business men as members of the Bureau of
Business Research.
(f)   The Summer Seminars were organized as planned and were a
successful part of the project.
(g)   The Faculty of Commerce has approved the change of its name to
"Faculty of Business" and the change of its degrees to "BBA and
MBA," but these changes have not been approved by the University
Senate. It is expected that there will be opposition to having two
institutions (the other being the IBA) in the same university
offering the same degrees.
(h)   The Faculty of Commerce and its four departments have not followed
the other recommendations of the UGC's Curriculum Review
Committee.
Specifically:
(1)   the Faculty have not agreed to have core courses common to
all four departments;
(2)   the Faculty have not agreed and none of the departments have
included any general studies courses as part of the
curriculum; and



- 31 -
(3)   each department continues to teach all of the courses for
all of its students, which means that e.g. in the Marketing
Department, Finance, Accounting, and Management courses are
usually taught by Marketing Department teachers who have
their degrees in Marketing.
(i)   The pedagogy of the teachers has changed very little, which means
that the students have benefited very little, and th:refore
management education has benefited very little as a rosult of the
project. The size of the classes have increased frotr. 100 to 150,
so that there are not usually seats or even standing room for all
of the students in the classroom. The teacher lectures and the
students who attend take notes.
(j)   The reasons why things have changed so little are because of the
following constraints:
(1)   insufficient classroom space
(2)   insufficient faculty members
(3)   insufficient equipment
(4)   very few acceptable textbooks, in Bengali, which the
students can buy or find in the library.
(k)   When the BMET project began, the DU Faculty of Commerce admitted
400 students per year (100 into each department) into the BCom
program. This has been increased to 600 per year (150 per
department). In July 1987 the faculty/student ratio was 1/42.
Since then the size of the Faculty has gone from 70 to 80 and is
expected to reach 100 within two to three years. Still, there
will be insufficient faculty and a high percentage will be new
with no training beyond the MCom received from the department
where they teach. For example, the Marketing Department has 15
teachers, including only one professor and two associate
professors. Only three of the 15 have studied abroad.
(1)   Since the beginning of the project the University has given the
faculty of Commerce a building of its own, located just behind the
Institute of Business Administration. It is the building of the
former National Institute of Public Administration (NIPA). The
building was vacated two years ago and has been sitting vacant,
with everything removed, including the electrical wiring. It is
being renovated, but will only be large enough to provide offices
for the faculty. They will need to continue to beg for classroom
space from the Dean of the Arts Faculty.
(m)   The faculty members indicated that the best parts of the project
were the fellowships and the case writing, and research.



- 32 -
(n)   The faculty members felt that the deficiencies in the design of
the project were that it should have provided:
(1)   a computer lab with 25 PCs.
(2)   a TV/VCR, a photo copier, and three overhead projectors for
each department.
(3)   more short-term fellowships for senior faculty members.
(4)   for the consultants in Management, Marketing, Finance, and
Accounting to each stay three months.
87.         Banaladesh Management Development Center (BMDC).   Annex 4 shows
the project inputs and goals for BMDC specified by the PP, the extent to which
these were attained or achieved, and comments about problems or effects.
(a)   Of the 10 persons sent for Masters degrees, two have not and
probably will not return.
(b)   The BMDC had had a three-year project with ILO just prior to the
BMET project. It had provided fellowships, three long-term
experts, equipment and library. It had produced a lot of case
studies. Consequently, the short-term consultants from MUCIA were
not considered to be very useful by the BMDC staff, except for the
design of the new diploma programs.
(c)   As seen in Annex 4 the equipment budget was well spent.  The
computers and the other equipment are in use. Much of the
equipment and most of the furniture went to furnish the new sub-
centers in Kulna and Chittagong.
(d)   The Director General failed to inform the staff that the fees
which the project would pay for research projects and case studies
had been increased and few of the staff were motivated to get
involved.
(e)   Salary increments were well used.  Staff has increased from 42 to
58.
(f)   Attendance in the diploma courses has increased from 81 to 111 per
year. This is due primarily to the opening of a Personnel
Management Diploma course in Chittagong. However, even though
more short courses are now being offered in Kulna and Chittagong,
the overall attendance at short courses has dropped, during the
project, from 1425 to 1350. The Director General has no interest
in promoting the courses.
(g)   Pedagogy has not changed as a result of this project.  They had
been using audio-visual equipment and cases due to the previous



- 33 -
ILO project. They tend not to use textbooks, but depend on
mimeographed handouts. The curriculum has not changed. The
output has decreased. Morale is low because of the attitude of
the current Director General. Those who went on degree
fellowships are now more discontented with the BMDC than
previously and are attempting to go abroad or work for a
multinational firm.
(h)   During the period of the BMET project, the BMDC had a separate
concurrent project, from 01/01/86 to 01/05/87 from UNIDO, which
provided four computers, software and an expert for the 16 months.
He ran three courses on the use of a computer and software for
project feasibility analysis. Several faculty members were
trained and now offer that course. Also, faculty members
continued to get support from the UNDP. During 1987-88 alone, six
faculty members were funded to go to 10 one or two-week workshops
sponsored by UNDP in Manila, Karachi, Bangkok, Kuala Lampur, and
Tokyo.
(i)   The current Director General, who has been in that position for
two years, has no interest in management training. He had not
permitted the startup of any of the new diploma programs nor the
changes recommended in the existing programs. He will retire in
eight months.
(j)   No additional support would be recommended for the BMDC in the
current situation.
88.         Institute of Business Administration (IBA).   Annex 5 shows the
inputs and goals for the IBA specified in its revised PP, the extent to which
these were obtained or achieved, and comments about problems or effects.
(a)   As seen in Appendix 11, out of 20 people sent for degrees, one
became ill after six months and returned to Bangladesh; two
completed their degrees and returned; all others have remained in
the U.S.
(b)   The MUCIA consultants were not considered useful to the IBA.
(c)   An eight-week unofficial, Pre-MBA program has been introduced to
improve math and English language skills and introduce students to
accounting. Students are asked to pay a fee of Tk 500 each to
support the cost of this program, as it is not part of the
university/IBA degree program.
(d)   A course in Entrepreneurship has been added to the curriculum as
an elective, but the course has not yet been taught. This course
is particularly important for IBA students and should be offered
regularly.



- 34 -
(e) The Curriculum Review Committee recommended reduction of the core
courses from 16 to 13 or 14, but this has not been dono. Sixteen
core courses may be needed, but they should be reviewed and
revised from time to time.
(f) The number of MBA graduates has not been significantly increased
as a result of this project. The IBA faculty feel that a larger
number cannot be admitted without lowering the standards. For the
last intake there were 2,750 applicants, but only 135 were found
to meet the entrance standards. This is given as the reason for
their desire to introduce a BBA program, to feed better students
into the MBA program.
(g)   The BBA program has been approved by the DU Syndicate and is
awaiting approval by the Academic Council, after which it will be
implemented. The program has been advertised and over 5,000
applications were received. The applicants were said to be of
very high quality. The plan is to start with intakes of 120 and
after several years increase the intakes to 150 students. It
should be noted that a sizeable minority of the IBA faculty are
opposed to starting a BBA program, and that the Commerce Faculty
are strongly opposed. There is a feeling that it closely
duplicates the new BBA program in the Faculty of Commerce, except
that it will be four years instead of three, the first year being
mostly general studies courses, and that it will be taught in
English. Also, it will have smaller classes and use modern
pedagogical techniques. It will absorb significant resources.
Even with an intake of 150 students, the number completing the
four years will not exceed 120 and some of these will find
employment upon graduation, leaving perhaps only 90 to 100 to
enter the MBA program. Thus, it will not serve as a means of
significantly increasing the size of the MBA program.
(h)   The size of the EDP per se has increased by only 23%, rather than
the 100% planned. The primary reasons given for this are:
(a) unrest on DU campus and, (b) no increase in faculty (they did
not return from the U.S.). However, it should be noted that the
IBA has created a Center for Population Management and Research
and a Center for Computer Training, both of which organize
seminars and workshops for managers. In 1987-88 these Centers had
188 participants. If one includes these 188 participants, the
total attendance in 1987-88 was 727, for an increase of 65% over
1982-83 attendance.
(i)   In the MBA class admitted a year ago, 137 were given admission
into the daytime MBA and 126 arrived and started classes. By the
end of the 1st semester, only 82 remained, including 25 who were
on probation. By the end of the 2nd semester, 61 remained, of
whom eight were on probation. Thus, perhaps 50 to 55 will
graduate.



- 35 -
(j)   The faculty is somewhat leery of any significant increase in the
number of MBA graduates, given current government policy of no
more hiring into the public sector corporations, and the slow down
of the economy. They want to avoid having MBA graduates not being
able to find jobs.
(k)   They fell well short of their goal for case studies and research.
This was primarily because such a high percentage of the faculty
were on fellowships, and then did not return, leaving a heavy
teaching load for those who remained.
(1)   They achieved their very large goal of Tk 58 lac of library
acquisitions. In addition, the IBA has been obtaining large
quantities of books from the Asia Foundation.
(m)   As specified by the PP, 19 new instructors were added.  However,
as 11 of them were terminated after not returning, 8 more have
been hired subsequently. There are 25 faculty members currently
teaching at the IBA, plus 12 on study leave, for a total of 37.
(n)   The IBA has become one of the leading members of the Association
for Management Development Institutions of South Asia (AMDISA).
In July 1989 the IBA organized, on behalf of AMDISA, sponsored by
the Commonwealth Secretariat, a 10-day regional workshop on Case
Writing.
(0)   In order to improve communications and cooperation between the
five BMET institutions, after the end of the project, a proposal
was prepared by the Director of the IBA on "Strategies for
Networking Management Educational Institutions and Educators in
Bangladesh." It is now under discussion between the Deans and
Directors. The proposed name for the networking organization is
the Bangladesh Association for Advancement of Management (BAAM).
(p)   The IBA has signed an agreement for a cooperative project with the
University of New Brunswick, financed by the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA), providing approximately
$1 million over the next six years. This will provide the funding
for nine MBA and seven short-term fellowships, plus for the
purchase of some more computers, and the sending of some UNB
faculty to the IBA.  It is primarily aimed at the development of
the BBA program in the IBA, but also includes a component on
"Management Development for Women."  The project became effective
as of July 1, 1989.
(q)   Regarding civil works, a total of 15 contracts were let for the
various portions of the civil works, in addition to 9 contracts
for equipment furniture. The work included the addition of a
third floor on top of the existing IBA building; the renovation of
the IBA building; the addition of a five-story building wing to
the IBA building; the construction of two apartment buildings (20



- 36 -
flats) for IBA faculty and staff, on Green Road; and the
construction of a hostel for IBA students, on Green Road. There
were four different Directors of the IBA during the period of
construction. This resulted in changes of design and a
significantly increased budget. The design changes resulted in
delays of construction. The changes of design and budget resulted
in a long delay (18 months) for approval by the Planning
Commission, with final approval coming only in late May 1989.
Also, the contractor for the staff housing was found to have left
many defects and would not correct them, resulting in a long delay
before another contractor could be found to correct the defects.
All work on the staff quarters and student hostel is completed and
they are occupied. The construction of the third floor and the
library wing is completed, but some fixtures still need to be
installed. The renovation of the IBA building is completed as
well as the construction of the boundary wall, roadway and main
gate. The funds spent will be within the overall budget and the
workmanship has been fairly good.
G. Significant Accomplishments of the Proiect
89.         A total of 94 persons were sent abroad for training and 61 of them
have returned to their institutions: 33 with masters degrees and 28 with
short-term training. It is expected that some of the others will return
within the next several years.
90.         Both the IBA and the BMDC now have sufficient equipment, furniture
vehicles, and library books and journals.
91.         The IBA has greatly expanded academic facilities, staff housing,
and a hostel building for students and for executive trainees.
92.         The IBA faculty has increased from 21 to 37 while the BMDC
teaching staff has increased from 42 to 57.
93.         The output of IBA's management development programs increased from
440 to 727 annually. The output of BMDC's diploma programs increased from 81
to 111 annually.
94.         A total of 80 faculty members at the Faculties of Commerce
benefited from industrial internships. The Faculties of Commerce organized 15
summer seminars for a total of about 375 commerce teachers from affiliated
colleges. Each added an average of about 1600 books and five journal
subscriptions to their libraries.
95.         A total of 171 research projects and 227 case studies were
completed. The best of these were selected and will be published in five
volumes. Too textbooks in Entrepreneurship were written in Bengali, have been
published. Four U.S. textbooks were adapted, translated into Bengali, are at
the printers, and will be published soon.



- 37 -
H. summary of Problems. Rationale. and Lessons to be Learned
96.         Problem #1  The major problem with the project was that a high
percentage of the persons sent on fellowships failed to return. All 28
persons sent on short term (1 to 3 months) fellowships returned. None of the
three sent for PhD study have returned. Of the 63 sent for MBA or MA, 30
(47%) have not returned. If we look at the percentages of non-returnees,
institution by institution, we see the following for the degree candidates:
- Rajshahi University: All have returned.
- BMDC: Two out of 10 (20%) have not returned.
- Dhaka University: seven out of 14 (50%) have not returned.
- Chittagong University: seven out of 11 (64%) have not returned.
- IBA: 17 out of 20 (85%) have not returned.
97.         A number of reasons have been given for this low rate of return:
(a)   Poor economic conditions in Bangladesh and an inhospitable
teaching atmosphere at the universities. Consequently, the longer
they can stay in the U.S. or U.K., the better. If they can get a
teaching job overseas, better still.
(b)   The MBA/MA students wish to use the opportunity, while abroad, to
also get a foreign PhD. If they return without the PhD it will be
difficult to get another fellowship in the near future. If they
reach the age of 35 before being able to get another fellowship,
governmental policy will not allow them to go abroad for a degree
program after the age of 35.
(c)   At the IBA, 14 of the 17 sent for MBA's had been hired by the IBA
just prior at being sent abroad on fellowship. They had ne sense
of being part of the IBA--no feeling of allegiance to it.
98.         The lessons to be drawn from this project, for the design of
future projects with icllowship components, are the following:
(a)   .n other fields of study, a masters degree from a university in
Bangladesh will often permit entry directly into a doctoral
program in the U.K. but not in the U.S.
(b)   In the field of business administration, an M Com from Bangladesh
will not be considered as acceptable for entry directly into a
doctoral program.
(c)   It is usually not feasible for a project to fund both an MBA and a
PhD (five or six years) for an individual. It would be unwise to
fund an individual for such consecutive degrees. After five or



- 38 -
six continuous years abroad, the individual is usually culturally
divorced from Bangladesh; will have great difficulty in
reintegrating, and will likely leave. The opportunities to leave
are large because the demand for PhDs in business administration
in the U.S., U.K., New Zealand, and Australia, is greater than
supply, if the PhD is from a U.S. university.
(d)   The purpose of the project is not necessarily to provide degrees,
but to effect a transfer of know-how. A foreign degree may
benefit the individual, but not necessarily the university of the
country. Thus, the project design should look for a way to
achieve the transfer of know-how while minimizing the risk of the
individual being lost to the university and to Bangladesh, and
maximizing the benefit of the study to Bangladesh.
(e)   To achieve those aims, the project design should provide two types
of study programs:
1.    Short-term programs (3 months long) for faculty members who
already have a PhD but who have not been abroad for five or more
years. During the three months they can go to a university which
is on the quarter system (a term is 10 weeks) and attend advanced
classes in their field of interest and in research methodology,
observe teaching pedagogy and business school administration,
review the latest literature in their field in the library, do
library research on a new research project, and establish a long-
term relationship with a faculty member. (It should be noted that
a professor who goes abroad for three months or more must get
permission of the President of Bangladesh).
2.    Fellowships of 12 months in a U.S. university and 24 months in
Bangladesh. This would enable faculty members to enroll in a PhD
program in a Bangladeshi university for 12 months before being
sent abroad. During those initial 12 months he would identify a
dissertation topic, read the related literature available in
Bangladesh and complete a draft dissertation proposal.
During the 12 months in the U.S. he would enroll in advanced
courses and doctoral seminars in his field and in research
methodology courses, carry out library research (review of the
literature) on his research topic, identify a faculty member who
is willing to serve on his dissertation committee, and refine his
dissertation proposal.
This discussion refers to "U.S." business schools because in most
other countries the doctoral studies consist solely of writing the
dissertation. The doctoral course work and research methodology
courses are therefore, not usually available. For the 12 months
of study in the U.S. university, he can be registered in the
School of Continuing Education, which is found in most
universities, and so is in a non-degree program. The courses are



- 39 -
subsequently not transferable to a degree program, eliminating the
temptation to try to switch to a doctoral program, in the U.S.
Also, entry to such a program would not require a GMAT.
During the third year, in Bangladesh, he would do his field
research, analyze the data, and complete his dissertation.
This approach will have the benefit of eliminating the possibility
of brain drain, having a low cost, effecting the desirable
transfer of know-how from the U.S. business school to Bangladesh,
and assuring that the resultant research is on a Bangladesh
problem.
99.         Problem #2  This problem relates to the difficulty of getting
students placed in MBA programs. Only nine were placed and began their
studies before 1986, when the program had already been operating for about
three years.
100.        The main reasons for this very slow start in the fellowship
program were:
(a)   delays in the institutions in nominating the individuals for study
abroad;
(b)   delays by MUCIA in appointing its Coordinator in Dhaka;
(C)   low TOEFL and GMAT scores by the nominees;
(d)   need to organize preparatory programs to assist in improving TOEFL
and GMAT scores.
101.        The lessons to be learned from this are:
(a)   If the fellowship program discussed in item #1 above is followed,
no GMAT will be required.
(b)   The project should include a TOEFL preparation program of three to
six months of full-time study prior to leaving Bangladesh.
Fellows should have a minimum TOEFL score of 525 and preferably
550 before going to the U.S. for the three-month or 12-month study
programs.
(C)   This TOEFL preparation becomes more important in the future
because more and more the younger faculty members have had all of
their academic studies in the Bengali medium and have a much
poorer command of English, compared to the older members.
102.        Problem #3  Many of the consultants were found to be of little
benefit, which resulted in a decrease in consultancy funds from $628,170 to
$390,903 (38%) and a decrease in consultancy man/months from 83 m/m to 58.6
m/m (29%).



- 40 -
103.        The main reasons for this were:
(a)   A year had passed before MUCIA had appointed to Dhaka Coordinator,
reducing that component by 12 m/m.
(b)   The visits by the subject specialists (Management, Accounting,
Finance, and Marketing) were so short (three to five days per
institution) that there was insufficient time to work with
individual faculty members.
(c)   There was little need for these consultants at the IBA and the
BMDC.
104.        The lesson to be learned from this is that subject specialist
consultants should come to Bangladesh for a period of about nine months and
spend about three months at each university. This would permit time: (a) to
work with each faculty member in the relevant department for one week and to
attend classes with that teacher, discuss pedagogy, and course syllabi, help
develop teaching materials--particularly transparencies, and advise on library
needs; (b) to organize workshops for the faculty on topics of common interest;
(c) to help organize and then to help teach in executive development programs
on topics related to that Department's special capabilities; (d) to help
faculty members identify topics for case study and research; and (e) to help
develop research topics for those faculty members entering a PhD program.
105.        Problem #4  The equipment provided by the project was insufficient
to meet the needs of the three faculties of Commerce, resulting in non-use of
some which was received.
106.        The reason for this insufficiency and non-use was that the project
proforma (PP) underestimated the needs. For example:
(a)   No screen for the overhead projector was mentioned in the PP and
so none was provided, making it difficult to use the projector.
(b)   Only one overhead projector was provided for a faculty 40 to 70
members, resulting in an insoluble logistics problem.
(c)   Only one computer was provided to teach a computer course to 450
students, whereas a computer lab with 15 to 20 computers is
needed.
107.        The lesson to be learned is that the uses and needs must be
assessed for determining equipment requirements.
108.        Problem #5  Relative to library acquisitions at the faculties of
commerce, the books ordered were not related, in a balanced manner, to the
needs of all of the courses in the curriculum.



- 41 -
109.        The reason for this mismatch of needs versus orders is that the
Dean asked the Departmental Chairmen to recommend books and the Chairmen asked
the individual faculty members to recommend books. At no level was there a
coordination to assure that the needs of all courses were covered, for
periodicals as well as for books.
110.        The lesson to be learned is that the Dean needs a higher level of
motivation to assure the effective achievement of the projects goals and to
spend more time on the project. Also he needs additional staff to assist in
administration of the project.
111.        Problem #6  The number of case studies and research projects did
not achieve the original planned goal.    The reason is that the original fees
(cost reimbursement) for a case study was set at Tk 3,000 and for a research
project at Tk 5,000. This was far too low and very little was done. This
policy was eventually changed to Tk 7,500 per case study and Tk 15,000 per
research project--regardless of actual cost. As a result the revised goal of
190 research projects was nearly attained (171 completed) and the new goal of
250 case studies was nearly achieved (227 completed).          The lesson to be
learned is that some financial incentive is needed, and is effective, to
encourage research.
112.        Problem #7  The number of executive development programs (EDP)
decreased at Dhaka University and did not significantly increase at the other
institutions. The reasons for this poor performance are:
(a)   At the three universities, many teachers were abroad on
fellowships while those remaining had increased teaching
responsibilities and were occupied with other BMET project
activities. Also there is no one charged with the responsibility
of organizing EDPs.
(b)   At BMDC, very little effort is made to market the programs, no
innovative effort is made to develop new programs, and the current
Director General has no interest in increasing attendance, which
has resulted in a very low level of morale at the BMDC.
113.        The lessons to be learned are:
(a)   Project funds should have been provided to supplement a selected
teacher's salary, at each University, so that one person could be
given responsibility for EDP.
(b)   The Ministry of Industry should learn that post of Director
General of the BMDC should be filled by a professional in
management training. Neither the current nor the preceding
Director General was interested in management training. One more
appointment of this nature will effectively kill the institution.
114.        Problem #8  The industrial internships were fully utilized, but
were not really "internships." These "internships" turned out to be a series



- 42 -
of short visits to request company data, which management was willing to
selectively release, permitting the individual to write an "internship
report."
115.        The reason is that the business firms do not want an outsider
having general access to company data, which would be a necessary part of a
true internship position. The lesson to be learned is that internships for
faculty are not useful. The same experience can be had by writing a case
study or doing a more elaborate research project, and the product is more
useful.
116.        Problem #9  None of the five institutions followed the
recommendations of the Curriculum Review Committee fully.
(a)   The BMDC did not follow any of the recommendations.
(b)   The IBA began a Pre-MBA program, but did not reduce the number of
required courses. It added the elective course in
Entrepreneurship, but has not yet offered the course.
(c)   CU has selected 20 courses as "core" courses in the BBA, but did
not include any general studies courses among them. They have
changed the names of the degrees to BBA and MBA, and beginning in
March 1989 all Management courses in the Faculty are taught by the
Department of Management, and all Accounting courses by the
Department of Accounting.
(d)   RU has selected 12 rather than 20 courses as common for all four
departments and has not included any general studies courses.
They have not changed the names of the degrees, and each
department teaches all courses to its students.
(e)   DU has not followed any of the recommended changes, except that
each department now requires a course in Business Communications,
which is taught in English. They have agreed to change the names
of the degrees to BBS and MBS and the name of the Faculty to
"Faculty of Business Studies." However, having no core courses,
each Department still teaches all courses to its students.
117.        The reasons for this non-conformance with the recommendations of
the CRC are:
(a)   The BMDC's Director General appears to have no interest in the
project or in the BMDC itself.
(b)   The IBA faculty after a careful review and considerable
discussion, decided that it could not afford to reduce the number
of required courses. Also, they do not have anyone qualified to
teach Entrepreneurship.
(c)   None of the Commerce faculty members have taken a BBA from abroad



- 43 -
and are not aware of the importance of a broader education for
future managers.
(d)   RU Faculty of Commerce voted several years ago to change its name
and the names of the degrees, but it was shot down by the then
Vice Chancellor. If they bring it to the university again, it
would probably be approved.
(e)   At RU and particularly DU, several Departments are jealous of the
autonomy and refuse to recognize the benefits of corporation.
118.        The legoon to be learned from this is that the SC and CRC have no
authority over the five institutions. They could only recommend change. This
cannot be changed. However, funding for fellowships could be made contingent
on a Faculty making certain changes in its structure and curriculum, these
being deemed necessary to achieving the goals of the project.
119.        Problem #10        The five institutions did not submit annual
reports, as required, indicating plans for research and case studies for the
following year, nor did the three Faculties of Commerce submit annual reports
indicating plans for internships for the following year.
120.        The reason given by the Deans and Directors is that the project
placed a large additional burden on their offices without any increase in
staff to handle the additional administrative details. The lesson to be
learned is that the project design (the SAR and the PPs) should have provided
for the funding of a salary supplement for the Dean/Director and for the
addition of a "project staff assistant," funded at 100% the first year, 75%
the second year, 50% the third year, 2% the fourth year, and 0% the fifth
year.
121.        Problem #11        There was no reentry program.  Consequently,
there was no occasion to bring the degree candidates together in the U.S. to
discuss common problems and ideas for changes after returning to their
institutions and building a sense of camaraderie and unity of purpose. Nor
were there any meetings of fellowship alumni after return to Bangladesh to
discuss ideas learned and problems of inducing change and to reinforce inter-
institutional networking. Nor did each institution provide forums for each
returnee to give a talk or present a paper to his colleagues.        As a result,
fewer participants returned, and those who did return were made to feel that
their ideas were not of interest to their colleagues.
122.        The reason for this lack of a reentry program was that it was
missing from the initial design of the project. When it was suggested by the
meeting of consultants and project staff, at the University of Illinois, on
23/24 April 1987, this was ignored by the UGC. The lesson to be learned is
that any overseas training project should have a reentry program built into
it.
123.        Problem #12        The completion of civil works for the IBA
academic building is nearly two years behind schedule. The reasons for this



- 44 -
delay are:
(a)   The Director of the IBA made a large number of design changes in
the middle of the contract.
(b)   The engineering department of DU did not closely supervise the
construction and renovation.
(C)   The contractor's statement that the delay was largely due to DU
student rioting is acceptable for several months of delay, but not
for two years.
(d)   There were no enforceable penalty clauses in the construction
contract for late completion.
124.        The lessons to be learned are:
(a)   The government must have a closer supervision of design changes
after a contract has been signed.
(b)   Construction contracts should have enforceable penalty clauses for
late completion, such clauses to be enforced if reimbursement is
to be expected from the IDA.
125.        Problem #13        The Continuous Reporting of Project Status
(CROPS) reports are misleading in showing the percent of completion of each
budget line in terms of SDR's. The reason that they were misleading is that
during the project the U.S. dollar devalued against the SDR by 8 percent and
the Taka devalued against the US$ by 32%. The MUCIA contract was stated in
terms of US at the initial exchange rate and even though all of the dollars
had been spent the CROPS report will show only 92% completion. The PPs are
stated in Taka and when all of the Taka for a given budget line are spent the
CROPS report will show only 60% completion, which appears to be very poor
performance but is in fact excellent performance.
126.        The lesson to be learned is that, for the CROPS report to be
useful, the relative changes in currency values need to be taken into account.
These may change from month to month but such changes can easily be taken into
account by modifying the computer program and inputting the exchange rate each
month.
127.        Problem #14        The project has not had a significant effect on
the quality of management education. The quality of the education depends
partly upon the curriculum, but primarily upon the performance of the teacher
in the classroom and what he demands from the students. This has not changed
significantly.
128.        The reasons for this are many:
(a)   The addition to the library are English language books and the
students have a very low ability to read and absorb such books.



- 45 -
For most courses, the instructor has the only copy of the textbook
or there may be one or two copies in the library, for 50 to 150
students, depending on the course, and those library copies are in
English. Thus, it is still difficult to assign homework, have
classroom discussion, or have quiLzes. Basically, the instructor
still lectures and does some writing on the blackboard while the
students take notes.
(b)   There is no significant increase in the use of case studies
because those which were developed are not yet available, except
for those which the instructor developed himself.
(C)   There is no use of the overhead projector to increase the
efficiency of lecturing in the Commerce faculties because only one
was provided, for 50 to 70 teachers, and no screens were provided.
(d)   The computers are not used by the Commerce faculties because only
one was provided per Faculty and in DU and RU no room is even
available to install it.
129.        The lessons to be learned from the above are as follows:
(a)   The project design was faulty in not providing more overhead
projectors and computers, and space for a computer lab for the
Commerce Faculties.
(b)   The project design was faulty in not providing for a massive
effort to adapt U.S. textbooks and translate them into Bengali and
publish them in Bangladesh so that they can be bought by the
students. The mid-project decision to do this for four textbooks
was a token gesture:  40 to 50 are needed.



- 47 -
PART III STATITICAL INFORMATION
1. Belated Bank Credits
Table lt IDA CREDITS RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
Loan/Credit                          Year of
Title            Purpose           Approval      Status         Comments
Cr. 621-8D         Agric/Rural          1976      Completed    Physical aspects
Education II        Training                      June 1982    satisfactory;
quality aspects
need improvement
Cr. 1054-BD         Primary Educ.       1980      Completed    Efforts to increase
Education IV                                      Dec. 1986    implem. capacity
Cr. 912-BD          Vocational Trg.    1979       Completed    Further improvements
Voc. Training                                     June 1987    achieved administration
Cr. 1349-BD         Public Admin.       1983      Closing       Impr. cap BPATC
Public Admin.       Training                      Dec. 1990    PMIS for Ministry
Establishment
Cr. 2118-BD         Primary Educ.       1990      Approved      Improve quality
General Educ.                                     March 1990   and access
2. Proiect Timetable
Table 2: PLANNED, REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                        Planned Date      Revised Date    Actual Date
Sector Review Mission                                                10/77
Identification I                                                     08/79
Identification II                                                    08/80
Appraisal Mission                                                    03/81
Credit Negotiations                                                  10/82
Post Negotiations Mission        11/28/82                           11/28/82
Board Approval                                                      01/18/83
Credit Signature                                                    03/28/83
Credit Effectiveness             05/31/83           06/30/83        09/16/83
Project Completion               12/31/87           12/31/88        06/30/89
Credit Closing                   06/30/88           06/30/89        12/31/89



- 48 -
3. Credit Disbuneganta
Table 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(USS miioons)
IDA Fiscal Year    1983    1934    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Appraisal Estimato            0.10    0.80    2.60    5.10    7.30    7.80
Acual                         0.00    0.23    0.82    2.39    3.90    5.31        6.16    6.30
AcUalas % of esfimato           0%      29%     32%      47%      53%     68%      79%      81%
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULES
(Panmed and Acual)
_=
7
2
0
1983       1984       1985        9ses      1987       1958       1989        1990
Fteaml Year
O   Approh.al ..ttmate                          4-   Aetual



- 49-
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTA1ION
Table 4: PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION OF PROJECT TARGETS BY COMPONENT
Actual                    % of
Objective                                   Target                           Dec. 31, 1989           Completion
FACULTY ADDED (1)
(a)   IBA                                    24.0                               24.0                     100.0
(b)    BMDC                                  21.0                               17,0                      81.0
(c)    UGC                                    3.0                                3.0                     100.0
FELLOWSHIP (2)
(a)   IBA                                    46.0                               46.14                    100.0
(b)    Commerce                              64.0                               73.10                    114.0
(c)    BMDC                                  18.0                                1856                    103.11
CONSULTANTTIME (3)                           35.0                               22.9                      65.43
BOOK PURCHASED (4)
(a)   IBA                                    58.0                               55.27                     95.0
(b)    Commerce                              53.0                               53.14                    100.0
(c)    BMDC                                  22.0                               31.80                    144.0
CASES DEVELOPED (5)
(a)   IBA                                   150.0                               35.0                      23.0
(b)    Commerce                             550.0                               1680                      31.0
(c)    BMDC                                 150.0                               24.0                      16.0
RESEARCH PROJECTS (5)
(a)    MA                                    50.0                               28.0                      50.0
(b)    Commerce                             110.0                               130.0                    118.0
(c)    BMDC                                  30.0                               13.0                      43.0
CIVIL WORKS (4)
(a)    Academic Building                    149.27                             197.04                    132.0
(b)    Faculty Howing                       117.00                             153.27                    131.0
(c)    StudentDonme                         107.73                              140.12                   130.0
EQUIP & FURNITURE (4)
(a)   IBA                                    62.00                              82.90                    134.0
(b)    Commerce                              19.05                              10.65                     91.0
(c)    BMDC                                  43.00                              42.08                     98.0
(d)    UGC                                    6.70                               6.64                     99.0
(1)    Number of Faculty
(2)    Staff yeas. revised targea
(3)    Staff Montbs
(4)   In hcs Taka
(5)   In number (PP provision)



- 50 -
5. Project Costs and Pinancina
Table 5: PROJECT COSTS
(In Millions of US Dollars)
Estimated Costs                  Actual Costs
Local   Foreign   Total         Local   Foreign   Total
Components                 Costs    Costs    Costs         Costs    Costs    Costs
IBA                         1.3      1.9        3.2        2.071      1.523    3.594
Commerce Faculties          0.2       1.4       1.7        0.232      1.768    2.00
(Dhaka)                    (0.1)    (0.6)      (0.7)      (0.088)   (0.760)  (0 .
(Chittagong)               (0.1)    (0.4)      (0.5)      (0.068)   (0.526)  (04"
(Rajshahi)                 (0.1)    (0.4)      (0.5)      (0.076)   (0.482)  (0.M
BMDC                        0.3       1.0       1.2        0.158      0.822    0.98
UGC 1/                      0.0       0.7       0.7        0.224      0.365    0.589
Base Costs                  1.9       5.0       6.9        2.685      4.478    7.163
Contingencies
Physical                    0.3      0.3        0.5        -          -         -
Price                       0.9       1.3       2.2        -          -         -
Total
(with contingencies)       2.9       6.7        9.6        2.685      4.478    7.163
1/  Technical Assistance costs for program development at the IBA and
Commerce Faculties included.



- 51 -
Table 6: PROJECT FINANCING
(In Millions of US Dollar)
Planned (APR Rerortl              Actual
Expense Category              GOB      IDA    Total       GOB    IDA      Total
Civil Works                   0.4       1.8     2.2       0.315   1.261   1.576
Vehicle/Equipment             0.1       0.5     0.6       0.057   0.429   0.486
Furniture                     0.1      0.2      0.3       0.107   0.160   0.267
Library Books, etc.           0.1      0.6      0.7       0.005   0.537   0.542
Fellowship & Consultant
Services                    -        3.6      3.6       0.047   3.694   3.741
Research Support,
Seminars & Internships        0.2      0.2      0.4       0.097   0.138   0.235
Incremental Staff             0.2      0.3      0.5       0.140   0.076   0.216
Sub-total                   1.1      7.2      8.3       0.768   6.295   7.063
contingencies 1/            0.3      0.6      0.9       0.089   -        0.089
Total Project Cost            1.4      7.8      9.2       0.857   6.295   7.152
Taxes                         0.4      -        0.4       0.011   -        0.011
Net Project Cost              1.8      7.8      9.6       0.868   6.295   7.163
1/ Contingencies means the office expenses of IBA and UGC.



- 52 -
Table 7: ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS
(In Millions of US Dollar)
Original           Actual
Category                        Allocation       Disbursements
(1) Civil Works                         1.800              1.261
(2) Vehicles/Equipment                   .500              0.429
(3) Furniture                            .200              0.160
(4) Library, Books, etc.                 .600              0.537
(5) Fellowship and
Consultants Services               3.600              3.694
(6) Research, Seminars
and Internships                     .200              0.138
(7) Staff Salaries                       .300              0.076
(8) Unallocated                          .600              -
TOTAL                            7.800              6.295



- 53 -
6. Project Results
For a complete list of the project results planned and achieved by each of the
participating institutions, see Annexes 1 through 5.
7. Status of Credit Covenants
Table 8: COMPLlANCE WVlMH CREDIT COVENANTS
Section/Covenant                                        Status of Compliance
3.01     The Borrower shall carry out the project in conformity            In full compliance
with appropriate practices.
3.02     The Borrower shall employ specialists in accordance               In full compliance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.03     The Borrower shall cause the Implementing Agencies to             In futi compliance
insure imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
3.04     (d) The Borrower shall furnish a full completion report           In full compliance
within six months of project completion.
3.05     The Borrower shall establish, maintain and operate a              In full compliance
Project Steering Committee.
3.06     The Borrower shall cause UCG to appoint a Project                 In full compliance
Coordinator.
3.07     The Borrower shall cause UCG to enter into an agreement           In full compliance
with one or more acadenic/hanagement institutions.
3.08     The Borrower shall carry overseas training in accordance          Completely committed
with agreed program.
3.09     The Borrower shall cause agencies to prepare and furnish          Partial compliance
proposals due each March 31st for research and case studies.
3.10     (a) By Dec 31, 1983, the Committee to review existing             IDA has reviewed and
curricula and course contents and furnish its findings       commented on Committee
and recommendations to IDA.                                  and recommendations
(b) Implementing agencies to carry out recommendations of        Partial compliance
the review after IDA comments.
3.11     The Borrower shall ensure that the faculty housing and            In full compliance
dormitories constructed will be for the exclusive use of
IBA staff.
3.12     Commerce Faculties furnish proposals for industrial and           Partial compliance
commercial internships by January 31st yearly.
4.01     (c) The Borrower shall cause implementation agencies to          In full compliance
have accounts audited and submnitted to IDA by 12131
each year.



- 54 -
S. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
TABLE 9: MISSION DATA BY STAGES OF PROJECT
DURATION
DATE  PERSONNEL            DAYS         STAFFWEEKS             PERFORMANCE STATUS
MISSION        M/Y        TYPE          IN FIELD           USED        BY ACTIVITY  OVERALL REPORT TYPE
Ideafkcaon        8/80   G, OA                      27             10.8        -            -            -
Pre-Appraial       -          -
Appralal          3/81   G. o, OA                   30             18.0
Poet-Appraisl      -          --                                     -
Total                                57             28.8
Supervsion 1     10/83   E, AR, OA                   IS             9.0  FIMIDIPIDII         I          FuUl
Supervision 2     9/84   E, AR, 0                    6              3.6  F2M2D2PIDI1         2          FuU
Supervision 3     6/85   AR. G                       10             4.0  FIM2D3PIDI1         2          Full
Supervision 4    12/85   AR. G                       15             6.0  FIMID2PIDI2         2          FuU
Supervision 5     4/86   G                           10             2.0 .FIMID2PID12         2          FuU
Supervision 6    11/86   O, PO                       12             3.0  FIMID2PIDI2         2          Full
Supervision 7     7/87   AR                          7               1.4       -             -        Limited
Supervision 8    10/87   PO                          10             1.0  FIMID2PIDI2         2          Ful
Supervisin 9      2/88   AR                          3              0.6        -             -        Limited
Supervision 10    6/88   0, PO                       7              1.8  FIMID2PIDI2         2          Full
Supervision 11    2/89   0                           2              0.4        -             -        Limited
Supervision 12    6/89   0                            1             0.2        -             -        Limited
Supervision 13    7/89   AR, PO                      10             2.5  F2M2DIPIDI2         2          Ful
Total Field Supervision                             108            35.5
TOTAL                    GI1I, OA3,                 165            64.3
AR7, E2,
P04
Compldion Report                                                    1.9
T = Tehical Educator                 A = Agricultural Educator            F = Available Funds
AR = Architect                       EP = Education Planner               M = Project Management
OA = Organizaion Analyst             DC = Division Chief                   D = Disburement
G = General Educator                CS = Computer SpeCalist               P = Procurement
E = Economist                       PO= Program Officer (RMB)            DI = Development Impact
TABLE 10: STAFF INPUTS BY STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE IN STAFF WEEKS
Stage of Project CycLe                         PLanned               ActuaL
Through appraisal                                     n.a.                 85.5
Appraisal - Effectiveness                             n.a.                 13.6
Supervision                                           n.a.                 68.7
TOTAL                                                             167.8



Appendix 4
Project Inputs and Goals for Chittagong Univeraity
Planned vs. Achieved
Planned                                Achteved                |                            Coamnts
1. Fellowships                                                                 I (a) None of the faculty members vere found to be quallfled
21 manlyears to produea             120 manlyears                          I    to enter directly Lnto Ph.D programs.
3 Ph.D's and 6 MBA's                III MBA's and MA's                     I(b) Four degree candidateA vent to MUCIA universities,
at a cost of TK 67.7 lao            13 Short-term Study Programs           I    four to other US universitLes, 3 to Henley in the UK.
2. Consultants                                                                 I 1(&) CU faculty members commnted that the moat
See Part V regarding inputs         I                                           benefit vas derived from the consultants on
from the UGCtMUCIA Contract                                                     curriceulum review, faculty research, case vriting
and entrepreneurship.
|                                     1(b) CU faculty members also noted that the timing for
the consultants in the varLous speeific disciplines
I  as vrong. They are needed now rather than 4 or 5
years ago.  Nov the nev curriculum has been decided
and the people who were on fellowshLp have returned
and could benefit.
3. Equlpment and Furniture               IEquipment:                           1(a) The one photo copy machine ls kept In a locked room
The P.P. Anticipated:                 |l computer            Tk 130,262    |    and used only by the Dean.
Equlpment:                            |1 copler               Tk 84,785    1(b) One computer is of little value.  The faculty needs
1 computer            Tk 40,000    |1 overhead projector  Tk 31 o000    |       a computer lab with 15 computers.
1 copler             Tk 200,000    13 calculators            Tk 17,000    I(c) No film projector was purchased because of difficulty
1 overhead projector Tk 25,000    |1 electric typewriter Tk 47,000    |         In obtaLaLng film.
1 film projector      Tk 50,000    12 manual typewriters  Tk 30,894    |(d) CU wLshed to purchase a TV and VCR as many video
5 calculators         Tk 25,000    IComputer parts                         I    cassettes on management are available, but they
S typewriters        Tk 125,000    |   software              Tk 55,000          were not allowed to do so as it vas not mentioned
at a cost of Tk 4.65 lac            |Total                  Tk 3.96 lac   |    in the P.P.
Furniture:                           Furniture:                             (e) All of the furniture was for the Faculty of
MisC. at a cost of Tk 1.65 lac    IMLsC. at a cost of Tk 1.61 lac          I   Comrerce offices.  None vas for the main-lbrary.
I    Most of the nev books are not shelved because of a
I                  I                       lack of space for more shelves.  Nor Ls there more
I                                     I    space for reading tables In the reading room. 
I                                     |(f) High ptie-s were paid for *quipment, bovght                                b  
on the local market, which included import duties,                         0  0
taxes, and high mark-up.                                                      X
-- ---------------- ------------------I-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    I-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



4. Library Acquisitions                 11766 books                           I(u) Faculty members felt that the book lmporter used
2500 books                           lat a cost of US $35,500                   was very inefficient and was unable to obtain a
10 journal subscriptions             I                                          high percentage of books requested.
at a cost of Tk 17 lac               |(b) No new journal subscriptions were funded from
(US $68,000)                                                                    project funds because it was felt that the library
I                                         *already has a -uffic: nt number of journals.
5. Faculty Research                     149 research projects involving       I(&) This vas considered to be a valuable part of
The P.P. antLeipated:                   25 teachers, total payments of   I   the project.
30 research projects e Tl 8000       | Tk 564,000 average payments         1(b) Ther* were long delays in gettlng approvals from
120 case studies e Tk 5000              of Tk 11500                       |   UGCC
RevLsed to:                          160 case studies completed            1(c) There was confusion *a to approval procedures.
30 research projects 8 Tk 15000         Lnvolving 24 teachers costing
50 case studies e Tk 7500               Tk 405,000
average payment - Tk 6750
6. Industrial Internships:              IThere were 16 faculty internships  I(&) It was found that the companies would not allow
The P.P. anticipated such            linvolving 15 different professors,        the professors to be interns as such, (full-time, with
Lnternships for M Com students,    lutilizing a total of Tk 91,000              an assigned job) as they could become prlvy to
with a budget of Tk 2.1 lac.         lvth an average cost of Tk 5700.    |    confidential information.  Consequently, the
The SAR changed this to being                                                   internships were utilized to obtain specifLc data
internships for 20 of the faculty  |                                            for a specifLc research project and vere a means of
members with a budget of Tk 6 lac.                                              financlng the costs of preparing a research report.                               O
|(b) 36 dlfferent faculty had either one or more research
I                                     I   projects, case studies, or Lndustrial Internships.
--- -- -- -- ---  -- -- -- ---  -- -- -- --- --  -- -- --I-------------------I------------------------------------------------------------
7. Increase the number of               |NO increase in number of EDP but   I(&) CU Faculty of Conmerce Ls still organizing only
executive development programs       Imore CU professors are now           I   one or two EDP each year.
(EDP), the level of use of           |teaching In other programs.           (b) In 1983 only three CU professors were teaching
CU faculty in other local                                                       i In semlnars organized by the ChLttagong Port
management training centers,                                                    Authority, the Institute of Cost and Management
and the level of contact wlth        1                                          Accountants, the Industrial Relations Institute, the
the business communLty.                                                         Petroleum Corp. Training Center and the local BMDC.
Nov 10 of the professors do so.
|(c) In early 1989 the PresLdent of the Chamber of
Commerce and the Director of the Instltute of
Chartered Accountants were voted in as members of
the Faculty of Cmrcm ce.
|                                     j(d) A questionnaire was circulated to the Presidents
of a signLficant number of busLness fire s                                   X
regarding their willingness to cm  to CU to lecture                          I-'
in the Faculty of Comesrce classes.  There was a high
positlve response rate.



8. Revision of Curriculum, of           IA thorough revision has              J(a) The Faculty of Commerce has Lntroduced a
structure of the Faculty,            Ibeen achieved.                       I   BA and K3A degree.
and of the grading system.           I                                      (b) Under the new system, all courses are on a semester
I                                     I   basls.
|(c) The first two years of the BBA are core courses.
I   Each core course is taught by only one department.
I                                     |(d) The selection of courses In the curriculum generally
follows those suggested by the Curriculun Review
Committee of the CMET Project, except that the
core courses do not include general studies'
courses.
9. Summer Seminars:                     15 seminars, each with 25-30          I(&) ThLs was considered to be a very successful
5 seminars, each with 25-30          |teachers, at a cost of Tk 5.93 lac.|   program and should improve the quality of the
Commerce teachers from               I                                          students coming from those colleges.
affiLiated colleges, vith a
budget of Tk 6 lac
0tD
x
I-,
0



Appendix 6
Project Inputs and Goals for Rajshahi Universit7
Planned vs. AchLeved
Planned                 |              Achieved               |                           Co ments
---------------------------* ----------    -----------------------------------    ---------------------------------------------------- _ -------
1. Fellowshlps                          121.7 man years                       I(a) None of the master's candidates were admitted to MUCIA
21 man years                         18 Masters                            |   unlversitLes; three went to Monash UnlversLty ln
3 Ph.D's and 6 MBA's                 17 Short-term                              Australia.
at a cost of tk 67.7 lac             |                                     1(b) The two sent to Newfoundland for a short course, In
January, became ill and returned before completion
of the course.
|                                     1(c) All persons returned to R.U. from their fellowships.
--------------------------------------I----------------   -----------------I-----------------------------------------------------------
2. Consultants                                                                1 (a) They received almost no beneflt from the subject
See Part V regarding inputs                                                     matter consultants.  A vlsit of two or three days
from UGC1MUCIA contract.                                                   |   was essentially a waste of tLme.
|                                    |(b) They were very pleased with the consultants for
I   case studies and for research.
____________   --  --- ---- --- ---  ------  ---I--------------------------I-----------------------------------------------------------
3. Equipment L FurnLture                IComputer (1)       132,000           I(&) There is no air conditioned or dust free space
Computer (1)       Tk 40,000         iCopler (1)          84,000                avallable ln the Commerce buildings, so the                                       Ln
Copier (1)           200,000         JOB Projector (1)   21,000            |   computer Ls In the SceLnce BuildLng and being used
Overhead Proj. (1)   25,000          ICalculators (5)    17,000            |    by Science professors.
Film Proj. (1)        50,000         iTypewriters (5)   110,000            |(b) The overhead projector ls in a cabinet in the
Calculators (5)       25,000             Total           364,000                Dean's office and has not been used as no one knew how,
I                                        *and no screen is avallable.
Typewriters (5)      125,000         |                                     |(c) The electrlc typewrlter has not been used, as the
Total             465,000         |Furniture          164,355           |    secretary doesn't know how, and spare ribbon is
I                                     I   not available.
Furnlture         Tk 165,000         |                                     |(d) Most of the furnlture was made for a Faculty of Coamerce
I                                     I   Library, which doesn't yet have space allocated to it.
4. Llbrary AcquisLtLons                 IPurchased 1493 books for $13,000   I(&) They ended up with fewer books because the book
2500 books                           Iplus six journal subscriptions       I   asgnt selected was unable to acquire a high percent
10 journaL subscrLptLons             lat a total cost of Tk 13.2 Laco           of the books ordered.
Tk 17 lac                            I                                     I
0
p-h
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



5. Faculty Research                     135 Research Projects (23 persons)  I(&) They felt that this vas a very valuable experience.
30 Research Projects                     total payments - Tk 467,250       |(b) There was confusion in comnlications from the
e Tk 15000                              average payment - Tk 13,340           DMET office regarding the system of approval and
SO case studies                      125 case studles (12 persons)         |  payment resulting In some cases being vritten
e Tk 7500                                Total payments - Tk 133,750           for which payment vas not recelved.
average payment - Tk 5350         1(e) On the other hand, some advans were made and the
teoacers nver completed the work.
I                                     1(d) Several professors did a large number, but a total of
I                                     1    25 professors were Involved In one or more.
6. IndustrLal Internshlps (26)          131 Internships: (29 teaeh rs)        I(&) These were not Internships per ae. The person
Tk 6 lac                                 Total payments - Tk 222.000           would usually vlsLt the company 4 or 5 times to
Average payment - Tk 7200              to gather data on a speeLfLe problem, and wrLte
a report.  It was similar to a case study.
|                                     1(b) 40 dlfferent faculty members did either one or
I                                     l   more research projects, case studies, or industrial
I                                     |    internships.
7. Increase the number of               |Held I ED? in 1986 and               I(,) Rajshahi has a very smll business coemmnity and the
EDP & of other contacts              lone In 1988, at a total              I    scope for any significant increase In EDP is felt to
vith the business caomrnLty.         Icost of about Tk 20,000              |    be liLmted.  Prior to the project they had not held
I                                     I    any EDOP. 
8. Revision of the curriculum,          IBeginnlng in 1986, there are 12    I(&) The Faculty voted In favor of changing the
of the structure of the faculty    |core courses whieh are common to            names of the degreos to BBS & MBS but it was
end of the grading system.            aLl 4 departments, inluding 2             negated by the then Vlee Chancellor.
|courses (Business Policy and         |(b) It takes two to three months for exams to be
|Research Methodology) at the              graded.  ThLs is the main reason given for not
IM Com level.  The names of the            going to a semester system.
|degrees have not been changeds the  (e) Each department stlll teaches all courses to
lcourses are still on annual system        the students In that department, including the
|rather than semestor, the method          "core courses. 
lof testing has not changed  nd the |(d) go general studies courses have been ineluded In
ifaculty is divlded Into 4 fully           the revised curriculum.
lindependent depts. But, 2
inew depts., Marketing, Finanme
nd Banking have been created.
OQ 
0



9. Si   r Seminars                     |illd 5 seminars evcr4ing s() There was great satisfaction with this program.
S seminars, each vlth 25-30          120 toachbrs each, at a total cost         The semlnars had an average attendance of 20 teachers.
comarce teachers from                lof Tk 5.4 lac
affiliated colleges, Tk 6 la c                                             l
r
0
(.i



Appendix 8
Project Inputs and Goals for Dhaka University
Planned vs. Achieved
Planned                 i             Achleved               |                           Coaments
1. Fellowships:                         131.4 manlyears                      I(a) Three degree candidates went to MUCIA universities,
36 manlyears                        114 MBAs and 8 ST                     I   seven to other US universities and four to Henley.
4 PhD's and 12 MBA's a              |(b) Of the 14, only seven have returned, five are
at a cost of Tk 120.2 lac                                                 I   studying for a Ph.D vlth no financlal asslstance from
the project and two are engaged in non-academic work.
One of those studying for a Ph.D did not request
leave from DU. It is thus expected that three
of the 14 vill not return.
------------------------------------- I--    - - - - - - - -  - -  - - - -  - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - --I------------------------
2. Consultants                         |                                     |(a) Should have had a consultant run a workshop
See Part V regardLng                I                                          on the use of computers, and another to run a workshop
inputs from the UGC/MUCIA contract.l                                           (also for DU faculty members) on statistical analytical
technliques, so that they can understand journal
articles.
|(b) The subject matter consultants ln Management                                   I
MarketLng, Finance, and Accounting should each
have stayed at DU for 3 months so that they
could have worked wlth each faculty member, for a
week, on pedagogy, syllabus deslgn, teaching materials
and research ideas.
3. Equlpment and furniture             |1 Computer         Tk 130,262        I(a) Each Department needs a photo copy machine and
The P.P. anticipated:               |1 Copler               84,785        |   two overhead projectors and a TV-VCR.
Equipment:                          |1 Overhead Proj.       31,000        |(b) To offer the course on computers, they need a
1 computer     Tk   40,000          |S calculators          16,96S        |   computer lob wlth 25 computers.
1 copler           200,000          |S typewriters         108,788        |(c) The computer has not yet been used because of lack
1 overhead proj.    25,000          ITotaL             Tk  371,800        |   of appropriate space.
1 film projector    50,000          |                                     |(d) The overhead projector has not yet been used
8 calculators        40,000         iFurnlture          Tk 219,000             because there is no screen, and because one Ls
5 typewriters      125,000          I                                          not nough.
TOTAL           Tk 480,000
Purnlture       Tk 165,000           I                                                                                                                 GQ PD
___-----                                                                                                                                                   OXI-I



4. Library Acqulsitions                  |1147 books                           l(a) Insufficlent attention paid to ordering multiple
2500 books                            110 ;outnal subscriptions vith        |    copies of books vhich would be used as course
10 journal subscriptions                     back copies                         textbooks.
15 a cost of Tk 20 lac               | t   cost of Tk 20.7 lac              1(b) All books ordered under this project are stored
in the Faculty of Commerce librarya most previously
hold books relating to faculty of Cowaerce
are ln the main library.
-- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - --- --      - - -- - - --  - --I----------   -----------------I------------------------------------------
5. Faculty Research                      146 research projects Tk 612,000    I(a) Faculty members felt that this vas a valuabla
50 research projects                 |    32 teachers                       |   part of the project, but that foL most research projects
80 case studies                       183 case studies       Tk 554,800          where data must be gathered, the Tk 15,000 was
Tk 13.6 lac                                26 teachers                           far too little.  The average payment per research
Tk 11.5 lac    |    project was Tk 13,300, and per case study was
Tk 6700.
6. Industrlal Internships                137 faculty internships each          I(a) A concensus *xists that this was a valuable part of the
for 213 of the faculty                lof 8 weeks duration at a cost             project.  The average cost per internship was
213 X 70 - 46                        lof Tk 148,500                              Tk 4000.
at a cost of Tk 330,000               136 teachers                          1(b) 57 teachers out of 70 did either one or more research
I                                     I   projects, case studles or industrial internships.
______________________________ I-----------------------------------I---------------------------------------------_______-               _____
7. Increase in the number of            |Durlng the past 5 years there         1(a) Durlng the past five years. no one took the                                        h
executive development programs        Ihave been no EDP, and the level    I    initiative to organize EDP, vhereas before the BMET
(EDP), in faculty teaching in        lof teaching in outside training       I   project began the EDP and had a flow through
outside training programs and         |programs has remained about the    I   of about 500 executives per year.
ln level of contact vith the         Isame.                                 l(b) The Faculty of Commerce needs to obtain
business community.                   I                                     I    authorization from DU to have one person
I                                     I    appointed as a full-time Dlrector of EDP,
Iith a full-time secretary.
--------------------------------------I-----------     ----- ---- ---- ---- ---I------------------------------------------------------------
8. Curriculum Revision,                  ILittle has been changed.
restructurlng of the Faculty         I
of Commerce and changes in the
grading system.
9. SuMMer Seminars                       hFive seminars at a cost              I(&) This was a successful program.
5 seminars with a budget             lof Tk 6 lac                           k(b) On 28-30 July '89, DU Faculty of Commerce
of Tk 6 lac                           I                                     I    organised a vorkshop for 25 teachers selected from
I                                     I    the 125 alumii, to discuss the seminars and their                             0QD
I                                     I    results.                                                                         X
0



Appendix 10
Project Inputs nd Goals for BNDC
Planned vs. Achieved
Planned                                A chieved                                           Comentr
1. Fellowshipa:                         110 MBA-&a 16.6 menlyears             I() The staff felt that the short-term program at
9 MBAss 18 manlyears                 125 mIm  of ST                             "a. Wash. had been a waste of tim, and the one at
20 mim of ST                         I                                          IllinoLe badly organized.
|                                     1(b) Those who studied Ln the UK felt that MUCIA had been
|                                     |   very alow in gettLng funds to them.  Also, for the
12-month masters, they felt that it vas unfair to
simply cut all allowances in half (compcard to
I                                     I    trvo-y"ar h A).
|                                     1(c) It appears that two of the 10 sent for masters
I I                                        degrees will not return.
2. Consultants:                         |ALL consultants worked with          |(a) Before this project the BMDC had had a long-term
See Pert V regarding                 13MDC staff,                               project wvth the ILO, with three long-term advisors
inputs from UGCIMUCIA Contract       I                                     I   who had run many workshops for the staff, Lncluding
case studies. Over 100 case studies had been written.
The staff did not feel that they had gained much from                         CF
the MUCIA consultantse  except for the design of four
new diploma prorIams.
3. Equlpment & Furniture                12 computeirs       Tk 25.1  lac      1(a) They purchased one PC and one mini.  The decision
Equipment:                          |1 slide projector        .6  Ic       |    to buy the minl was made in 1983.  It is now recognlzed
3 computers          Tk 28 lac       13 overhead projectors  .4  Lea            that thoy could now buy 12 PC* for the price of
1 slide projector        2 Lac       14 photo copiers 4                    |    that one mini, nd sech PC has more memory than
2 OH Projectors          2 Lac       I     1 spiral binder  4.7  Lac            the one mini.
I photo copy machine .               12 micro buses          5.61 Lec      1(b) The micro buses have been paid for but not yet
spiral binding equLp. 5 Lac        MNsc.                   7.3  Ia      I   delivered.
2 micro buses           14 lac       |Furnituro              7.17 Iac      1(c) The misc, equipment tncludes such Items ass spare
Furniture                7 lac       |                      50.88 Lac      I   parts for the projector, microphones, color TV,
Tk 58 lac                                                  VCP1  vidso camera, two typevriters, and two vacuum
I olesners.
m m
0
-h



4. Llbrary AcquisLtions                 13245 books                           I() The last order of books, films. and video cassettes
2000 books    34.48 Lac              | 664 journals                        |,  have not res, boen received.  They should arrive in
| 30 films                                 August or September.
| 21 video cassettes                  I
|Total Cost         37.4 lac
5. Faculty Research                     113 research studies. 8 persons       I(&) The staff state that they were not Laformed of the
30 research projects and             124 case studies, 10 persorj          i    increases ln fees and vere still of the opinion that
so case studLes:  Tk 6 lac           |Totel Tk 3 lao                       I    they would be paid Tk 5000 for a case and Tk 8000 for a
I                                     I    research project, and so they were not intererted in
I                                     I   doing more.
6. Salary Increments                    |There was a not additlon of          I(&) The budget for 1989-90 ia beLng cut below the
23 faculty beyong 42 exlsting        117 persons by 1987, but this has          pravious year so some more of the-added staff
Tk 26.37 lac                         Inow decreased to 15.                      way be cut.
ITk 23.4 lac
7. Curriculum RevisLon                  IN* changes Whatsoever                I(a) The current Dlrector General expressed the opinion
New short courses                  I                                     I   that the managers of the public sector corporations
Changes to diploma programs        I                                     I   do not need further training.  He feels that the
in Industrial Kgmt. &                                                    I   problem of poor performance Is not a lack of management
Personnel Ngmt.                    I                                          knowhow, but a lack of management motivation.
New diploma programs In
- Financial Mgmt.
- Marketing Mgmt.
- Production Mgmt.
8. Output                               Ica) Enrollment In short courses hasl(a) The record for the short courses would have been
(a) Increase number of traineeslyr        decreased to 1350 In 1988-89   |    far worse if it vera not for the growth of
In short courses from 1425            and had been low as 1042              activity in the new sub-centers in Kulna and
to 2300                          |    In 1985-86.                           Chittagong.
(b) Increoase number of trainees    1(b) Enrollment in diplom
in diploma courses from 81       |    courses increased to 111 In
to 95 per year                        1988-89.
00
OQ O
fD X
O0



Appendix 12
Project Inputs and Goals for the IBA
Plauned vs. Achieved
Planned                |            Achieved                                         Comments
1. Fellowships                        117 MBAs                            I(a) One of the MBA fellows returned early because of
19 MBAs                            13 PhDs                             I    illness.
4 PhDs                             15 short term                       1(b) OnLy two of the other 16 MBAs have returned to
Total of 48 manlyears              14. manlyears                       I   Bangladesh.
costing Tk 161 lac                 |                                   1(c) Non. of the 3 PhDs have returned.
|(d) Thus, of 20 teachers sent for degree training, only
I   three have returned.
|                                  |(e) Of those who have not returned, the three PhD
candidates and three of the MBA candidates were
granted leave to complete their degrees. The
I                                  l   other 11 have had their positLons in the IBA terminated.
|(f) All of the 5 ST fellows have returned.
------------------------_------------I__------ --------- --------- --------I-----------------------------------------------------------
2. Consultants                                                            I 1(a) The IBA faculty feel that the consultants were
See Part V regarding               I                                       not very useful to them, that the consultants
Lnputs from UGCCMUCIA Contract.                                            were needed primarily by the three commerce facultles.                        C
--____________________________________I-__________________________________ I-___________________________________________________________
3. RevlsLon of the MBA                I(&) Introduction of eight week     I(a) Has not reduced the number of core courses.
Curriceulum.                       I   pre-MBA.                        i(b) Has not changed the structure of the PhD Program.
l(b) Introduction of *Entrepreneur- |
| ship' as an elective, but not
I   yet offered.
---  -- -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- --I-------------------I-----------------------------------------------------------
4. Inerease output of MBAs            I(&) MBA graduates in 1987-88       I(a) The pre-MBA is a remedial semester, non-credit,
from 57 in 1981-82 to 240|   totalled 63t EDP participants  |   prior to beginning the regular MBA. They were not
and increase EDP partieipants      |   in 1987-88 totalled 539.            able to increase the Intake without lowering the
from 440 in 1982-83 to 900.        1(b) Introduced a pre-MBA.              entrance standards.
|                                  1(b) The IBA Ls proceeding with plans to start a BBA
I   Program.
OQ 
h
I-.



5. Research and Case Studies            128 research research projects         I(&) Of the current 25 faculty at IRA, 18 were
50 research projects                 135 case studLes                           involved in writing either a case study or a
50 case studies                      ITk 4.54 lac                               research project.
Tk 7 lac                                                                    (b) The average costs were:  Tk 5000 per case study
I                                          a nd Tk 10000 per research project.
|(c) They are far short of the goal for case studLes
|   nd research.
6. Library Acquisitaons                 110,562 books received or on
Tk 58 lac                            lorder.  30 Journal subscrLptions
ITI. 58 lac                           I
7. Faculty increased by 19              IThe 19 new members were added.
new members, going from 21 to 40.  lBut 11 of them have been
iterminated.
8. Equipment and Furniture              IMicro Bus 9.5 Tk                      i(a) IBA has satisfied Lts needs for equlpmnt.
a. One micro bus   Tk 6 Lac          IMisc. (See attached list)
b. Micro computer, PC,               I(Table VI)
typewriters, photo copy           ITotal:  Tk 69.73
machlnes:  Tk 76 lack             | 
c. Furnlture for library,            |                                     |
hostel and academic buildLng    |                                       |
Tk 86 lac                                                               |
-- - - - - - - - -        - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -   --I___-- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- ---I------
9. Civil Works                          |ta) Rennovation of three floors    1(a) The hostel for managers has a very low
(a) Renovation of existing three         should be completed by the end         utilization rate.  It Ls not appropriately designed
floors of 1BA building.              of November 1989.                      for managers,  very small rooms, no air conditLoning
(b) Adding a 4th fLoor to the        1(b) The 4th floor has been added,          nd no cross ventilation.  It should also have a
existing building.                    but some finLshLng work wll   |    better semlnar room, with air conditioning, in case
(c) Addlng a 4-floor annex                not be done untll the end             the seminar cannot be held at the IBA because of
to the exlstlng buildLng.             of November 1989.                     student unrest at DU.
(d) BuLlding 2 apartment             1(c) The annex has been added, but  1(b) Malntenance of the hostel and staff housing is very
buLldings for IBA staff               finLshLng work will not be donel   poor.  It is done by the DU Enginering Offic-.  IBA
housing (20 apartments).              until end of November 1989.           should make Lts own provisions for a diligent
(e) BuLlding a student hostel for  1(d) Staff housing completed                 maintenance person.
IBA students and for                  December 1986, and is now
partLeLpants ln IBA seminars.         occupled.                       'I
I(e) Hostel completed Decmber 1986                                                                                OQ:
and is now occupied.             I                                                                               X
0
I.Ih



