Document of                            F
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3783-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
December 29, 1982
Education and Manpower Development Unit
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a basket of
reference currencies, with the Pound Sterling serving as intervention
currency. On August 24, 1981, the exchange rate was set at Tk 33.96
buying and Tk 34.06 selling per Pound Sterling. Depending on exchange
rate movements between Sterling and the US Dollar, the Taka/Dollar cross
rate is subject to change. For the past seven months, this rate has
fluctuated at levels slightly between Tk 20 and Tk 23/US$. Throughout
this report the rates shown below have been used:
US$     = Tk 22.0
Tk 1    = US$ 0.04545
Tk 1 M = US$ 45,454
LIST OF TERMS, ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BIDS                    Bangladesh Institute for Development Studies
BMDC                    Bangladesh Management Development Center
B. Com.                 Bachelor of Commerce Degree
CRC                     Curriculum Review Committee
GOB                     Government of Bangladesh
IBA                     Institute of Business Administration
IBRD                    International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
ILO                     International Labor Organization
M.B.A.                  Master of Business Administration
M. Com.                 Master of Commerce Degree
PIC                     Project Implementation Cell
P.S.C.                  Project Steering Committee
SFYP                    Second Five Year Plan
UGC                     University Grants Commission
UNDP                    United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



i
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. INTRODUCTION ............................................. 1
II. BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING SUBSECTOR:
AN  OVERVIEW ............................................ 2
Problems  and Constraints ............................... 2
Management  Training Needs .............................. 4
Management Education and Training Institutions
and Programs ......................................... 7
III. BANK ROLE AND  SECTOR LENDING  STRATEGY ................... 20
IV. THE PROJECT ............................................. 23
Project  Origin ........................................ 23
Project Objectives  and  Scope .......................... 23
Project  Strategy ....................................... 24
Project Components .................................... 27
V. PROJECT  COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT  AND DISBURSEMENT ..34
Project  Costs ......................................... 34
Base  Cost Estimates ................................... 35
Area Allocation  and Costs  per  Student ................. 36
Foreign  Exchange  Component ............................ 36
Contingency  Allowances ................................ 37
Customs Duties and Taxes .............................. 37
Financing Plan ........................................ 37
GOB Recurrent  Cost  Implications ....................... 38
Procurement .................................                                 39
Disbursement  and Documentation ........................ 40
Accounts  and Audits .................................  41
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..................................,42
BMDC  Component ...............................                               45
VII. PROJECT  BENEFITS AND  RISKS .............................. 46
Benefits ................................                                    46
Risks ................................                                        46
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS ..................................                                 49
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
LIST OF ANNEXES
1              T-l      Grade Classification Used in the Study for
Classification of Management Personnel in
Public Sector Industrial Enterprises
2              T-l       Summary of Activities of the IBA
3              T-1      Unit Area and Unit Cost Estimates
4              T-1      Project Cost Summary
T-2      Summary Account by Project Component
T-3      Summary Account by Time
T-4      Project Component by Time
T-5      IBA - Detailed Cost Table
T-6      Dacca Commerce Faculty - Detailed Cost Table
T-7      Chittagong Commerce Faculty - Detailed Cost Table
T-8      Rajshahi Commerce Faculty - Detailed Cost Table
T-9      BMDC - Detailed Cost Table
T-10     UGC - Detailed Cost Table
T-ll     Expansion of IBA, Dacca University Academic
Building: Civil Works, Summarized Cost Estimates
T-12     Expansion of IBA, Dacca University Men's Hostel:
Civil Works, Summarized Cost Estimates
T-13     Expansion of IBA, Dacca University Faculty
Housing: Civil Works, Summarized Cost Estimates
T-14     Forecast of Expenditure and Disbursement
5             T-1      Selected Documents and Data Available in Project
File



BANGLADESH
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    Absence of effective management, 1/ both in the productive and
services sectors, is pervasive and has been acknowledged to be one of the
most important and critical factors inhibiting optimal efforts and results
in the sphere of development activities in Bangladesh. This is manifested
in the low productivity and low capacity utilization in industrial
enterprises, 2/ operationally and financially inefficient public delivery
of services, delays in program implementation, poor utilization and misal-
location of available resources and in a number of other such indicators
of poor performance. Consequently, for some time now, management improve-
ment has become a matter of increased priority among those in positions of
leadership and authority in Bangladesh as well as among external donor
agencies. The Second Five Year Plan (SYFP) of Bangladesh has emphasized
the importance of bringing about qualitative and quantitative improvements
in the country's management scene. 3/ Towards that end, the Plan has
proposed development of an institutional base that would foster the growth
of effective education, training and research programs in regard to (a)
public administration and (b) management of business and industrial
enterprises. The proposed project, which was identified in very broad
terms in 1978 by an IDA Education and Training Sector Review Mission, has
been designed to provide integrated support for all levels of business
management education and training programs in Bangladesh in order to
overcome some of the basic weaknesses in the system (paras 4.01-4.03). 4/
1/ Defined as individual and collective capabilities and efforts of
agencies, organizations or enterprises to fulfill their defined tasks
in an efficient, effective and responsible manner.
2/ IBRD Report 2889-BD.
3/ XVIII of SFYP.
4/  A separate proiect for improving public administration training has
been prepared with UNDP assistance and is scheduled for just been
appraised for possible IDA financing.



-2-
II. BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING SUBSECTOR: AN OVERVIEW
Problems and Constraints
2.01    Issues underlying the dearth of management capability within
Bangladesh organizations and individuals are complex and wide-ranging. 1/
The current management scene is the product of a number of interacting
political, historical, cultural and institutional factors, some of which
are summarized below.
2.02    Historically, industrial and business enterprises in this part
of the world have been owned and managed mostly by non-Bengalees. During
the war of independence and the subsequent separation from Pakistan, most
of the non-Bengalee owners as well as senior and mid-level managers left
Bangladesh. The new government, in line with its policy of nationaliza-
tion, took over ownership of these industries and also created additional
enterprises. 2/ Most of the personnel gaps were filled by new recruitment
and/or promotion. However, the government was not able to attract and
retain the best qualified persons, because of innappropriate personnel and
unattractive compensation policies. This, coupled with inadequate train-
ing and personnel development programs, (paras 2.03, 2.04) has seriously
eroded the quality of management in the public enterprises. The private
enterprises also face similar problems of managerial inadequacies, but a
few of the larger ones (mainly multinationals) have been able to partly
alleviate their difficulties through better recruitment and compensation
policies.
2.03    The overall environment and institutional set-up in which the
public sector corporations and enterprises operate do not foster good
management and, more importantly, changes for improvement. Though
autonomous by law, the corporations and their constituent enterprises are
still subject to cumbersome civil service rules and procedures in their
daily operations. Very few of the corporations have well-defined manage-
ment systems and manpower development plans. The decision-making process
is still highly centralized and key officials are overburdened with multi-
ple roles, duties and responsibilities, often not commensurate with their
background and capabilities. In 1973, the government created a cadre
called the Industrial Management Service and recruited 200 officers for
permanent deployment in various sector corporations. Nevertheless, most
of the top and some middle-level management positions (usually the chair-
man and some directors) are manned by generalists from the civil service
1/  See Appendix F of IBRD Report 2037a-BD (Vol. II) for details.
2/ The public manufacturing sector, comprising about 300 production units
grouped under seven corporations, constitutes about 80-85% of all
industries in Bangladesh. It includes the largest export industry -
Jute - and such import substituting industries as chemicals, pulp and
paper, engineering, and accounts for 65% of the valued added in
industry.



-3-
cadre, most of whom do not have the necessary background, training and
skills to manage business operations. Follow-up visits with participants
in various management training courses have revealed that improvements
consequential to such training were minimal, because (a) top management
could not conceptualize the need for installing new management systems,
(b) administrative procedures were too restrictive to allow the necessary
changes and (c) the participants had difficulty in transferring knowledge
gained from training programs into practice in their respective institu-
tions. The latter partly results from the constraints mentioned in (a)
and (b) above and partly from the fact that most management training
courses offered are theory-oriented with very little practical relevance
to the conditions prevailing at the operating levels. The government,
however, is in the process of instituting remedial measures in these
regards. With the help of ILO/UNDP, the three coporations under the
Ministry of Industry 1/ have established Productivity Services Units and
Manpower Planning and Training departments. The Productivity Services
Units are designed to be the nucleus of "in-house consulting" capabilities
for designing and implementing new management systems for effecting chan-
ges and improvements in such vital management functions as production
planning and control, preventive maintenance, quality control, work
scheduling, materials management, etc. The training division would be
responsible for developing management manpower plans and specific programs
to meet the respective corporations' management development needs. In
addition, "strategic planning" (defined as a process through which top
management of corporations and enterprises work as teams in setting goals,
identifying the impediments to realization of these goals and specifying
programs of action to remove those impediments) has been introduced
through activities called Performance Improvement Programming. None of
these steps, however, are yet fully operative. The government is nego-
tiating with UNDP/ILO for possible technical assistance in these regards.
Successful implementation of the above would significantly improve the
overall environment at the corporations and thereby foster better manage-
ment practices.
1/ Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation, Steel and Engineering
Corporation, Sugar and Food Industries Corporation.



-4-
Management Training Needs
2.04    In-service Training:  A survey of management personnel in 1976/77
1/ estimated that industrial enterprises in the public sector alone
employed about 17,000 management personnel (five grades from senior
managers to supervisors). The education and training background of these
personnel are presented in Table 1:
UA. 1a t.w   due~ea tr ?~an
of teTsala±  ns Puban
S&cor Ezlerarl?am
maaerl    P-at-fteri.ines,        ofla
CatatmT~~~~~~~          _ 2 ofssate
Grad.Llzor           rrIa  tCdIP              Cd    t Ivb
160      58   8.0            5     6    1     s4
C.   adS               1470  52  7.0      46    21    265   2       46
Cr           30X0      34 8  .   a         47    9    25    19      36
Grad   S7    7170      11   7.0           1t1    2    14    7       33^
Grde v       5330      14   14.0                  
AU Grad     16700
Grad"               14    7.0           18    3           7      36
s-mn                   3                   47  U1   25   is        35
I-IV                   20                  Z8    5    18    10      36
'ea - STop 1MC; SS & SS A   Ud-mma_e Si 7 -oo  v  Sug,lss
A1k     of d5mU pl1 to 1977 .bm tSlaing Vinesoed. _med o tbe mais.e yew.
Ai r.i. ~.&z& s.. ., Mla. }vc.. C_   i3sz Amsm&P 
It shows that on the whole, only 10% of managerial personnel in Grades
I-IV have had some management related professional education (i.e.,
graduate/post-graduates in business and commerce subjects, diploma in
personnel management and accounting subjects, chartered and cost account-
ants, etc.) Only 20% of the managers in these four categories have
received some post-experience training (14% if grade V employees are
included). Such training had been given to them seven years previously
(at the time of the survey) and there had been no further follow-up or
refresher training. Moreover, the initial training, in most cases, had
durations of less than a month, the course contents were of questionable
relevance and concentrated mostly on supervisory, rather than managerial
skills development.  Therefore, both the inadequacy of previous in-service
training and its relevance at the current time could be justifiably ques-
tioned. Consequently, about 90% of all previously trained managers would
1/ Summary Report of Survey of Management Training Needs: Post-
Experience, Management Training and Education Background of Managers
in Public Sector Industrial Enterprises in Bangladesh, 1977.
Bangladesh Management Development Center.



-5-
need intensive refresher training to update their management knowledge
and skills. A comprehensive assessment of the training requirements in
the public sector industries was completed in 1978. 1/ Table 2 shows the
total number of managers (top four levels) who would need to be trained in
various management functions. When viewed from the requirement at the
different levels of management, it shows that 55% of the total training
requirement would be for the junior and supervisory -level staff (level
IV), 38% for mid-level and about 7% for the top-management staff.
TABLE 2: Number of Currently Employed Managers in Public Sector to be
Trained bv Levels and Ftnctions of ;'anagement
Levels of '.auagement
Function                               '      II     III    IV    Total      %
Industria  l4anagement                255   474       2O  1410    2959     13
General Admin. MLanagement            131   275    14Q5  2045    -256       17
Proluction Management                 521   680    1429  3340    5970       25
Engineering & Maintenance              71   155      340   400      966      4
Material Nanagement                    87   292      935  1200    2514      il
Marketing Management                  109   230      370   456    1135       5
Personnel Management                  146   3L0      495  2170    3121      13
Financial Managemcent                 173   2Z6      495  1810    2706      12
G.uAND TOTAL                         1493 2,6L4   6,289 12,831 23,230    100.0
2.05    The medium and large industrial enterprises in the private sector
are estimated to have about 1,600 management personnel in the various
categories (Grade I - 45; Grades II and III - 300; Grades IV and V -
1,200). Some of the larger enterprises, mostly multinationals, have
well-defined training programs and facilities, particularly for their
senior and mid-level management staff. However, the medium-scale
enterprises, which are mostly locally owned, do not have such programs and
consequently most of their management personnel in all grades are in need
of such training. Only about 12% of the management personnel in small
scale enterprises, which are generally owner managed and contribute nearly
1/ Report on Training Needs in Industries - prepared by the National
Committee on Training (Dacca, 1978). The estimates exceed the total
number of personnel in the managerial cadre, because some would
require training in more than one area.



-6-
90% of value added in the private sector, have management training back-
ground. Participation by private medium-scale and small size enterprises
in institutional training programs has been rather insignificant.
2.06    The throughput of trainees from the existing institutional
programs (paras 2.10 - 2.26) at present is between 1,500 - 2,000 persons
per year. Unless the existing institutions are strengthened and expanded,
it is unlikely that the in-service management training needs for managers
in the business/industrial sectors could ever be met, qualitatively and
quantitatively.
2.07    The industrial sector, besides having inadequately trained manage-
ment personnel, also has the disadvantage of having a managerial cadre
that itself is small in relation to the total number of employees in the
enterprise. For example, in the public manufacturing sector the first
three grades of managerial personnel constitute only about 1.25% of total
employment; the ratio in the large- and medium-scale enterprises in the
private sector - about 340 Grade I- III personnel for 100,000 employees -
is even lower. This means that senior and middle-level management person-
nel have to bear greater responsibilites in relation to subordinate
production workers than what is considered to be compatible with effective
management. Thus, there is also a need to expand the cadre of profes-
sional managers (particularly Grades I - III) apart from bringing about
qualitative improvements in the existing ones.
2.08    Future Demand for Managerial Personnel and Pre-service Management
Education: Based on assumptions on the future growth rate in the
industrial sector and the need for deepening the management structures
at the senior and mid-level (para 2.07), some projections of the future
need for managerial personnel have been made and are presented in Table 3.
The assumptions were: (a) investments in the public and private sectors
would result in an annual growth of 5% in the industrial labor force, (b)
Grade I-III managers would constitute about 3% of total work force in the
public and 1.5% in the private sector enterprises, (c) supervisory staff
(i.e., Grades IV-V), mid-level executives (i.e., Grades II-III) and
top-level executive (i.e., Grade I) would constitute about 80%, 15% and
5% of all managerial categories (i.e., Grades I-V), respectively. The
analysis shows that by 1990 about 14,000 additional senior and mid-level
managerial personnel would be employed by the industrial sector alone.
Currently some 70-80% of senior and mid-level (Grades I-III) managers in
public sector industrial enterprises are graduates and another 25% are
professional diploma holders. Of the graduates over 35% are Commerce
graduates (Table 1). Based on this it is estimated that nearly 80% of
these new managers would be graduates, of which nearly 5,000 or 40% would
be graduates from the Commerce Faculties (para 2.17). It is fundamental
to long-term qualitative improvements to the management cadre that a large
majority of the new managers have sound basic management education (in
general business administration or in the functional areas such as



-7-
finance, marketing and accounting) and that appropriate short courses are
available for regularly upgrading the skills of the managers in post.
Graduates in business and commerce are, of course, not the only source of
managerial manpower and managers are drawn for other disciplines such as
engineering, law and economics. It is essential, however, that the latter
have access to management education especially to in-service training
courses to refine managerial abilities.
TABLE 3: Additional Managerial Personnel Required by the Industrial Sector
(Large and Medium Size)
(Projected to 1990)
Existing      Future      Incremental
A. Public Sector
Grade I                             200           3700           3500
Grade II-III                       3500         11000            7500
Grade IV-V                        13000          5900           46000
Sub-total                         16700         73700          57000
Total Employment                 300000        490000          190000
B. Private Sector
Grade I                               50           595            545
Grades II-III                       300           1830           1530
Grades IV-V                        1200          9800            8600
Sub-total                          1550         12225           106/5
Total Employment                 100000        163000           63000
C. Totals (A + B)
Grade I                              250          4295           4045
Grade II-III                       3800         12830            9030
Grades IV-V                       14200         68800           54600
Sub-total                         18250         85925           67675
Source: Mission estimates (para 2.08).
Management Education and Training Institutions and Programs
2.09    Prior to the early sixties, management education was not con-
sidered to be a legitimate and rewarding area of academic pursuit beyond



-8-
offering instruction in the traditional commerce subjects. Likewise, need
for systematic and properly designed management training programs was also
not recognized and suich training was limited to a few vocational training
centers and some narrow-based departmental training programs. Creation
of the Bangladesh Management Development Center (BMDC) in 1961, and of the
Institute of Business Administration (IBA) at the Dacca University during
the mid-sixties, and subsequently the commerce faculties in the three
major universities, brought a radical change in the above situation.
Management education and training programs, however, are not yet adequate
for meeting the qualitative and quantitative needs in these regards.
Formal educational institutions and specialized management training
institutes have not yet developed large enough programs in practical
management. Most lack adequately trained staff in sufficient numbers as
well as equipment and instructional materials. Over 80% of the commerce
faculty members have only local qualifications; only 14% of the BMDC staff
have advanced degrees. On the aggregate, out of 214 management educators
and trainers in these institutions, only 26% have advanced degrees (see
Table 4).
TABLE 4: Overseas Training Background of Existing Faculty
(as of February 1981)
Staff with
Total Staff            Overseas Training
Institution              Number       Ph.D.      Masters      Diploma   Total
Dacca Commerce Faculty           70           6           7                     13
Chittagong Commerce Faculty    41             2           7                      9
Rajshahi Commerce Faculty        38           2           6                      8
IBA                              23           6          14                     20
BMDC                             42           1           5            12       18
Totals                          214          17          39           12        68
Interaction between  the users of management tools and management
educators and trainers is inadequate. Arrangements for effective guidance
and coordination in case writing, case studies and case research -- essen-
tial components of an effective management education and training system
-- are virtually non-existent. All the above conditions, severally and
jointly, render the existing business management education and training
programs somewhat ineffective and ill-equipped to meet the challenge of
bringing about the necessary changes and improvements. Nevertheless,
Bangladesh has an institutional base both for business management educa-
tion at the graduate and post-graduate levels and for post-experience



.-9--
training, which, given proper support, has the potential to bring about
substantial improvments in the current management scene.
2.10    Institute of Business Administration:  Located within the campus
of the Dacca University, IBA is the only institute in the country in the
field of post-graduate management education and senior and middle-level
post-experience training. It was established in 1966 with assistance from
the Ford Foundation which terminated in March 1971. During 1973-76 the
University of Manchester (U.K.) offered some doctoral fellowships to IBA,
but no other foreign technical or financial assistance has been received
since 1971. The Institute's policies are provided by a Board ot Gover-
nors, chaired by the Vice-Chancellor of Dacca University and consists of
11 members, 5 of whom come from the business community. The Institute has
an Academic Board which is responsible for prescribing courses and syl-
labi, examinations and determining other academic matters, subiect to the
approval of the Academic Council of the University. At present IBA is
housed in a 3-story building with 42,000 sq. ft. of floor space, housing
lecture and seminar rooms, faculty and administrative offices, library and
auditorium. It has no student dormitory facilities and 90% of its faculty
do not have on-campus housing.
2.11    IBA offers (i) a two-year full time and three-year part time
(evening) course leading to M.B.A. degrees and (ii) M. Phil. and Doctoral
programs in business administration. Its Masters program is designed to
prepare highly selective students for professional careers in management
in the business and social sectors. Right from its inception IBA was able
to institute a number of policies and measures -- all of which were radi-
cally different from the normal practices in the other faculties of the
University -- designed to ensure high quality in its academic program and
its graduates. For example, it (i) devised its own entrance examination
and restricted entry to a small number of highly qualified applicants,
(ii) instituted a semester system with heavy workload, frequent exams
during the semester and finals at the end of each semester, (iii) provided
automatic dismissal of students who did not meet standards and (iv) intro-
duced practical bias to its academic programs by insisting on summer
internship for its students in operating enterprises. IBA continues to
maintain these standards amidst a general deterioration of academic
programs and performances in the university system. In the last ten years
IBA has produced 475 M.B.A.s (435 in the tull-time and 40 in the evening
program) (Annex 1).
2.12    The demand for M.B.A.s is quite strong and none are unemployed.
Data on the first placement of M.B.A.s for the graduating classes of
1975/76 - 1979/80 shows that nearly 60% of M.B.A.s took up employment in
the public industrial/financial sector, 15% in the private sector (includ-
ing multinationals) and the remainder with various other agencies such as
foreign voluntary organizations, foreign missions, universities, etc. It
is estimated that about 5% of M.B.A.s have found employment overseas,



-10-
although recent studies on the migration of skilled manpower from
Bangladesh did not report incidences of administrative and managerial
persons taking jobs outside of Bangladesh. 1/ For a number of reasons this
has been so, despite the less than satisfactory career development plans
and financial reward system in public sector employment: (a) oppor-
tunities tor employment of professional managers in the private sector are
limited, because private enterprises constitute only a small portion of
the industrial sector, are largely owner managed, and the operations are
not generally large enough to warrant employment of professional managers;
(b) although the public sector corporations' salary structure generally
conforms to the national grades, their senior and mid-level executives are
entitled to substantial fringe benefits such as house rent, medical
facilities, special allowances, etc. which when combined makes the total
compensation package more attractive than the usual civil service
salaries; (c) public sector corporations are allowed to hire professionals
on term contracts (normally 3-5 years) at salaries higher than the civil
service salary structure; and (d) the prestige and job security accompany-
ing Government employment outweighs higher financial compensation in the
relatively limited private sector employment. It is therefore reasonable
to expect that the public sector business enterprises are in fact retain-
ing the services of the majority of M.B.A.s. Nevertheless, GOB is aware
of the organizational, management and staffing constraints in the public
sector enterprises which are evident from the SFYP objectives of "con-
tinuous review of the organizational structure and staffing pattern,
policies and programs for personnel development,... proper delineation of
duties and responsibilities," and GOB's commitment to pursue "a progres-
sive management development policy" and personnel policies to "be so
geared as to enable them to attract and retain talented people" through
"assurance of satisfactory career prospects." 2/ The demand for IBA
graduates is expected to further increase within Bangladesh in view of the
projected expansion in the business sector during the coming years and,
more importantly, because of the need for deepening management structures
in the public sector corporations and enterprises (para 2.08 and Table 3).
In the past, output of M.B.A.s was limited by IBA's inability to have a
larger intake of students (only about 30% of the applicants were found
suitable for admission) and high wastage rates (between 60-70%) among
those admitted. Therefore any substantial increase in M.B.A. output in
1/  Labor Migration from Bangladesh to the Middle East.  World Bank Staff
Working Paper No. 454, April 1981.
2/  SFYP Chapter XIII, para 13.41.



-l-
the future would depend on the success of IBA in attracting sufficient
numbers of qualified candidates as well as in reducing dropout rates. 1/
2.13    The M. Phil. and Ph.D. programs have just been launched and the
first batch of 5 students were admitted during the 1979-80 session. The
post-masters programs were introduced with a view to catering to the needs
of those who wish to pursue careers as management teachers and research-
ers.
2.14    IBA introduced the Executive Development Program in 1975 in order
to provide in-service training for practising business and industrial
executives. The program consists of short courses of varying duration, 2/
seminars, workshops and executive forums. The courses and seminars
offered cover general management subjects, functional areas of management
(i.e., marketing, finance, accounting, etc.) and special areas ot current
interest. The general management courses are geared towards development
of a generalized framework for managing large and complex systems. Execu-
tive seminars and forums are designed to help top-level executives get
exposure to newer and sophisticated concepts in management as well as to
serve as a media for exchange of individual experiences in management
problems and issues. Most of its course participants come from national-
ized corporations, although there are some from private sector enterprises
and social service institutions. Courses offered are either of IBA's own
sponsorship or are commissioned by various sector agencies. Up until
1980, IBA had administered 67 such courses and seminars which were
attended by over 2100 senior and mid-level executives. Demand for par-
ticipation in these courses is high and the Institute does not have the
statf and physical tacilities to enroll all applicants; consequently, it
is not unusual for these courses to be oversubscribed by about 40-50%.
Annex 2 summarizes IBA activities from 1966-67 to 1978-80.
2.15    The Institute's Research Activities consist of some case writing,
project research and individual taculty research.  Periodic seminars are
held to facilitate exchange of views among researchers and a journal,
the Journal of Management, Business and Economic Studies, is published
quarterly. During the period 1977-80, the faculty prepared 62 new cases,
undertook fourteen management consultancy services and seven research
projects. More recently, IBA has broadened the spectrum of its activities
1/ To remedy the situation IBA has been considering the introduction of
remedial courses and instruction for students with apparent deficien-
cies.
2/ About 55% of the courses offered between 1975-80 were of 6-12 weeks
duration and 30% of 2-4 weeks duration.



-12-
to the social sectors including population management, health services,
administration, utilities, and agribusiness management.
2.16    Given proper resources, IBA undoubtedly has the potential to
become a center of excellence for broad-based management education,
research, training and consultancy services. The IBA has a small, but
well-trained faculty of 23 members, all but three of whom have foreign
degrees (6 Ph.D.s and 14 M.B.A.s). All faculty members are Bangladeshi
nationals who have had both academic and practical business experience,
demonstrated commitment to modern methods of teaching and research and are
held in high esteem by business and academic communities. However, IBA's
existing physical facilities and overall pedagogy are unsatisfactory and
should be improved to realize the full potentials of the well-qualified
staff. The library, besides being inadequately stocked, is not large
enough to provide study areas for students as well as for the participants
in training courses and seminars. 'there are no dormitory facilities for
its students or a hostel for participants in the executive development
program. Only two out of the 23 faculty members have accommodation on
campus. The seating arrangements and furniture in the classrooms are not
conducive to participative learning methods. The Institute has no com-
puter tacilities and other essential equipment such as photo-copy
machines, audio-visual equipment, desk top calculators, etc. are in short
supply.
2.17    Notwithstanding IBA having a well-qualified faculty, there is a
need for balancing the present specializations and its composition by
strengthening in areas such as computer science, operations research,
sociology/psychology, cost and chartered accountancy, and in the rela-
tively newer, but important areas of utilities management, international
business and management of the social sectors. While IBA has a rigorous
curriculum and course structure, there is scope for further improvement.
For example, the relative weightages between compulsory (16 courses) and
elective (4 courses) courses appear to be unjustified as it does not
provide the students with the flexibility desirable in a post-graduate
program. Weightages given to the core courses as well as the methods and
course contents need to be reviewed with a view to increasing their
relevance to the Bangladesh environment. The faculty has very little time
for in-depth research, management case development and consultancy after
meeting their lecturing obligations. The overall program of the Institute
therefore has to be reviewed to ensure optimal utilization ot faculty time
and other resources by achieving a proper mix of
research/teaching/consulting and administrative activities of the faculty
members.
2.18    The Faculties of Commerce:  The Universities of Dacca, Chittagong
and Raishahi have commerce faculties offering undergraduate and
post-graduate degrees in commerce (B. Com. and M. Com.).  Undergraduate
instruction in "traditional commerce" subjects (i.e., accounting, business



-13-
law, organization, etc.) are also offered by the affiliated colleges of
these universities, under academic supervision and guidance of the Univer-
sity Faculties. In 1979, about 2141 persons received graduate and
post-graduate degrees in Commerce. 1/ Traditionally, faculties of commerce
have prepared young people for clerical/junior officer level positions in
business and service sectors. Programs were designed essentially for
careers in predominantly commercial organizations. With the growth of
industries, and development ot management education as a distinct academic
discipline, major changes in commerce syllabi have taken place during the
previous two decades. All three faculties, for example, now offer degree
programs in management and marketing in addition to accounting and
finance, which traditionally have been their forte. The bachelor's degree
in Commerce with honors in Management is the only undergraduate degree
offered in this area in Bangladesh since IBA offers only post-graduate
courses. Thus, the commerce faculties which are the major sources of
graduates in the functional areas of management, are also the sole sources
of graduates in general management at the first degree level. Besides
preparing professional manpower to occupy first level supervisory and
junior managerial positions in industry, commerce, government and the
services sectors, they are also the primary source of teachers for all the
three faculties of commerce at the Universities as weLl as the aftiliated
colleges offering commerce education. Nearly 40% of the IBA faculty are
also commerce graduates. Members of the commerce faculties act as
resource persons/part-time trainers at BMDC and other enterprise level
training programs. The Faculty at the Dacca University has also been
involved in organizing in-service training seminars for mid/junior level
executives (para 2.21).
2.19     The importance of the commerce faculties as one of the major
catalysts for effecting long-term improvement in the country's business
cadre cannot be overemphasized. The number of existing managers that
would need post-experience management training (Table 2) and the number ot
additional mid- and iunior-level managerial personnel that would be
required during the 80's (Table 3) are quite substantial. Faculties of
commerce can meet a significant part of that need by preparing personnel
to occupy first level supervisory/managerial positions particularly in the
accounting, finance, marketing and other functional areas of management.
They can in a real sense, supplement the supply of highly selective mid-
dle-level managerial personnel from the Institute ot Business Administra-
tion (IBA). Furthermore, with improvements in quality of commerce
graduates, time-investment now required in preparing them for progres-
sively higher responsibilities can also be reduced by at least two years.
1/  835 M. Com., 630 B. Com. (Hon). and 676 B. Com. (Pass) degrees. Output
of Graduates and Post-Graduates, 1979, Appendix X, Report of the
University Grants Commission of Bangladesh, Dacca.



-14-
In recognition of these potentials, some changes in their syllabi and work
programs have already been initiated (paras 2.17 and 2.21). Nevertheless,
the faculty orientation and training, syllabi, teaching methods and
materials are still largely traditional with the result that most
employers consider the majority of the commerce graduates to be "bookish,"
and narrowly and inadequately prepared for supervisory/managerial respon-
sibilities. Therefore, despite the general shortage of persons with
background in management related education, commerce graduates have dif-
ficulty in getting into positions for which they could logically be con-
sidered. A large number of them remain unemployed or are employed in
clerical or lower level managerial jobs.
2.20    Several factors contribute to the reduced value of the commerce
graduates: Firstly, commerce faculties lack teachers with the required
experience in modern business management education and training methods.
80% of the faculty have only local qualifications (e.g., M. Com.) (Table
4). All the departments suffer from the basic problem of in-breeding with
respect to its faculty. In the Department of Finance, University of
Dacca, 10 out of 14 (71.5%) are graduates of the same Department and have
not had the chance for further training or education. This situation
prevails in the other departments as well. The departments depend on
these young graduates with none or little practical experience to teach
the advanced courses at the senior undergraduate and post-graduate levels.
Senior teachers account for only 10% of the faculty and the rest are
Lecturers and Assistant Professors.  If we consider that the full profes-
sor, when there is one, teaches only 8 hours a week, we can easily see
that the burden of teaching rests on a young, inexperienced faculty.
Positions for senior faculty members are available, but they have remained
vacant for over 4 years for lack of suitable candidates. Secondly, the
syllabi provide limited coverage and emphasize specialization too early
without giving exposure to related social sciences and tool subjects.
Each department concentrates on its area of specialty and leaves no room
in its program for either the development of conceptual or analytical
skills, or the fufillment of the students' own desires to learn
non-specialty areas. There is also evidence of a lack of logical sequenc-
ing of the courses and of their general unrelatedness to the national
institutions and realities of Bangladesh. The material and methods of
teaching (primarily classroom lectures) are not oriented to rigorous
analytical application of concepts and techniques to resolution of practi-
cal management problems. Thirdly, majority of the commerce faculty
teachers have very little interaction with practising managers. There is
no representation of business executives on their academic boards; no
systematic post-experience training programs are organized by the faculty
(except at Dacca University) and adequate research and case studies on the
practical problems and issues confronting business community are not done.
Consequently, the faculty has minimal opportunities for increasing their
insights into real life management problems and hence are unable to bring
to bear a practical, problem solving and application oriented approach to



-15-
the classrooms. Finally, the commerce faculties suffer from some of the
inadequacies with respect to physical facilities, library books, furniture
and equipment and essential teaching aids, etc. that charaterize the
overall pedagogy of the universities in Bangladesh as a whole.
2.21    The commerce faculty of the Dacca University has four departments:
Management, Finance, Marketing and Accounting. Nearly 300 students are
admitted each year to the B. Com. course, 150 to the M. Com. preliminary
course and about 500 to the final M. Com. course. Total annual enrollment
is about 1500 students. The tacuity consists of 70 members, 13 of whom
(i.e., about 13%) have post-graduate degrees (including 6 Ph.D.s) from
universities abroad. Some measures to improve the quality of education
have been taken. The earlier system of having one final examination at
the end ot the course-duration has been changed in favor of a semester
system with more interim exams, thereby forcing students to be consis-
tently studious. The Master's degree program requires each student to
complete an internship with some institutions in the industrial or finan-
cial sectors. However, tinancial resources are inadequate to support the
incidental expenses of this program. 1/ More importantly, exposure to the
problems of industry is being attempted through organizing 4-6 weeks
duration post-experience management training courses for senior and
mid-level executives. This was introduced in 1975 and since then, over
2,000 such personnel have undergone training (Table 5). Thus, the faculty
is already in the process of altering its traditional character to become
an institution for modern business management education closely following
the pattern ot other management schools.
TABLE 5:  Participants in the Dacca University Faculty
of Commerce Training Program, 1975-79
Department          1975      1976    1977      1978      1979
Management            60       123      185       235      292
Finance               60       120       60       130      125
Marketing              0        30       55        60       30
Accounting           150       245      110        78       52
Total           270       518     410       503       449
1/ The Chittagong and Ra-jshahi Universities have also introduced similar
requirements, but lack finances to back it up.



-16-
2.22    The Faculty of Commerce at Chittagong University was formed in
1968. There are only two departments in this Faculty - Accounting and
Management. However, the Accounting Department includes some Finance
courses and the Management Department includes some Marketing courses.
The B. Com. program is still organized along the lines of the old British
system with an exam at the end of the first year and no more until the end
of the 3rd year of the honors program. However, beginning next academic
year (1982-83) an annual exam at the end of each academic year is being
introduced, the ultimate objective being the introduction of the semester
system. Yearly admission to the undergraduate and post-graduate courses
totals about 200 and 300 respectively. Current enrollment totals about
900. There are 41 faculty members, 22 in the Accounting Department and 19
in the Management Department. Nine of these staff hold foreign degrees (2
Ph.D.s and 7 Master's). Several management development seminars and short
courses have been organized during recent years, but most were sporadic,
resulting from individual initiatives. The program is not yet as
organized as the one at Dacca University. The Faculty of Commerce at
Rajshahi University, like the one at Chittagong University, has two
departments: Accounting and Management and with similar course structure.
However, with 1,100 students, it has a somewhat larger student body
although the faculty is smaller, with only 38 members. Eight faculty
members have foreign degrees (three in the Accounting Department and four,
including an M.B.A., in the Management Department).
2.23    Bangladesh Management Development Center (BMDC) is the only spe-
cialized institution for providing in-service management training for
lower and mid-level management personnel. BMDC was created in 1961 under
the Ministry of Labor and was originally oriented toward the training ot
supervisors. However, this orientation has changed over the years, par-
ticularly since 1976 when it was transferred to the Ministry of
Industries. Its training programs are now geared towards not only the
supervisory personnel but also junior and mid-level management and some
top level management personnel. During 1979-80, about 80% of the trainees
were junior and mid-level executives. BMDC has a 5-acre campus in the
center of Dacca which contains the academic building, hostel facilities
for up to 32 participants, and housing for 20 faculty, 16 clerical staff
and 10 service staff. A sub-center was opened last year in Chittagong
and under the SFYP two more sub-centers are planned, one at Khulna 1/ and
the other at Rajshahi. Currently, there are 42 faculty members, six of
whom have toreign degrees and 12 ot whom have diplomas. The center is
managed by a semi-autonomous Board of Governors chaired by the Secretary
of Industries.
1/ Currently the center is operating on rented premises. However, con-
struction of BMDC's own training center has recently been started.



-17-
2.24    Since inception, BMDC has administered 512 short courses, con-
ferences and seminars in which 10,000 persons, mostly supervisors and
mid-level managers have participated. Most of the courses were of 6-8
week duration although some of the foundation courses (offered in conjunc-
tion with ILO inputs) were of up to 14 weeks. The primary focus of the
training program has been the various specialized areas of Industrial
Management such as production management, industrial relations and person-
nel management, labor administration, preventative maintenance, quality
control and management principles and techniques tor supervisory person-
nel. In addition, some 300 people have completed 9-month diploma courses
in personnel management and which were started in 1961. The past three
years have witnessed substantial increases in the number of course par-
ticipants. Prior to 1977, on an average, about 500 participants per year
were trained at the Center. Compared to this, last year (1979-80) alone,
more than 1200 managers, of all levels, participated in over 70 courses,
seminars and workshops. With increasing awareness among public sector
enterprises about the critical importance ot management development,
participation in BMDC (and other institutional) training programs is
likely to increase at a faster rate. However, there is a lot that needs
to be done to improve the quality of the current level of operations at
BMDC. Industrial sources have mixed feelings about the course content,
teaching methods and calibre of instructors. To be effective, course
content needs to be more practically oriented and better structured to
meet the needs of the participants, most of whom have more practical
experience in management than most ot the instructors. The faculty would
also benefit from training in higher management techniques and increased
exposure to the practical aspects of management at the enterprise level.
2.25    BMDC has recently started an entrepreneurship development and
training program for educated, unemployed youths. This trained about 300
persons during the past year. BMDC has a Research Division, to assess
training needs in industry and to carry out research on management
problems and a Management Consultancy Service Division, which occasionally
receives requests from industry for professional services. None of these
activities, however, are yet firmly established.
2.26    Although 22% of BMDC's trainees in the past were senior grade
managers and some of its courses do relate to general management, account-
ing, marketing and finance subjects, its primary focus has been and con-
tinues to be, the provision of specialized training to junior, mid-level
and supervisory staff of industrial enterprises in order to upgrade their
management skills and technical knowledge of products, machines and
processes in their enterprises. Over the years, BMDC has developed
degrees of expertise in these areas which neither IBA nor the Commerce
Faculties could lay claim to. Given the demand for junior, mid-level and
supervisory personnel in the industrial enterprises (Table 3), the impor-
tance of BMDC as an institutional source for such training cannot be
overemphasized.



-18-
2.27    Corporation and Enterprise Level Training Institutes:  Some of the
public and private sector industries (e.g., the Petroleum, Jute Mills and
Textile Mills corporation, the Machine Tools Factory, General Electric
Motors, etc.) and financial institutions (e.g., Bangladesh Bank,
Industrial Bank, etc.) have established their own training institutes.
Training programs in these institutes complement those given at BMDC, IBA
or the Commerce faculties, because while the external management training
institutes provide broad based courses on the tundamental disciplines,
these enterprise based institutes provide in-service training in manage-
ment tools specific to the operation of their respective
enterprises/institutions. In this also, they draw heavily on expert
assistance from the faculty members of IBA, the Faculties of Commerce and
BMDC and on many occasions these latter institutes are commissioned to
organize and offer these courses.
2.28    Private Sector Institutions:   The Institutes of Cost Management
and Chartered Accountants offer courses leading to professional membership
of the Institutes (i.e., ACMA, ACA). They do not have a permanent faculty
and instruction is offered by practising accountants and, occasionally,
by staff of IBA and Commerce Faculties on a part-time basis.  A private
consulting firm "Rapport" offers IBA/BMDC type of post-experience training
seminars, mostly with the assistance of IBA/BMDC faculty. The Federation
of Chambers of Commerce and the Employer's Association occasionally
organize short (usually 1-2 days) seminars for business executives.
2.29    Government Policies and Plans:  The Government of Bangladesh (GOB)
is fully cognizant of the management deficiencies in public and parastatal
enterprises which also handicap the development of the private sector.
The SFYP of Bangladesh has explicitly stated that "uncommitted management,
lack of an adequate number of properly trained management personnel,
ineffective staffing arrangements, inadequate personnel development and
personnel management methods and practices, and defective financial
management and control procedures" have adversely affected the overall
performance of the sector corporations. 1/ The Plan therefore recommended
that management development programs should be undertaken on a priority
basis, not only to meet the needs for trained managers during the next
five years, but also with a view to creating a professional cadre of
management personnel to meet the long-term expansion needs of the
industrial and commercial sectors.
2.30    In support of the above objective, the SFYP has proposed the
following overall program: (a) the existing tacilities for training in
industrial/business management should be sufficiently expanded. This
1/ SFYP, Chapter 18, para 134.



-19-
would involve strengthening and expansion of BMDC with added physical
facilities including creation of additional sub-centers at Khulna and
Bogra, and setting up of a special institute to meet the training needs of
lower level managers and supervisors; (b) facilities for formal academic
programs in management and business education as well as for. training of
managerial personnel at the university level should be enhanced; (c)
in-plant training within industries/enterprises with appropriate support
and liasion with specialized management education and training institu-
tions should be tostered; (d) efforts should be made to ensure that
private sector enterprises also benefit from public sector investments in
developing training, research and consultancy services; and (e) management
research at the training-cum-research institutions (e.g., BMDC, IBA, BIDS)
and at the university departments teaching management related subjects
should be strengthened.



-20-
III. BANK ROLE AND SECTOR LENDING STRATEGY
3.01     Previous Bank Group Assistance to Management Training.   The Bank
has consistently maintained in its dialogue with GOB that effective
programs for removing the management deficiencies and constraints were a
sine qua non for enhancing Bangladesh's capability to implement and manage
its development programs. The IBRD Education and Training Sector Memoran-
dum (Report 2037a-BD), among others, reviewed in considerable detail the
dimensions ot management constraints and concluded that despite the com-
plexities surrounding the problem, the basic ingredients for promoting
effective management improvement programs did exist in the country. 1/
Notwithstanding the above, past IDA assistance in regard to management
development has been rather limited given the fact that management
development issues are complex, constraints are deep rooted and long-term
resolution of the problems calls for comprehensive efforts. To date five
IDA credits totalling about US$ 106.0 M 2/ have been made to the education
and training sector in Bangladesh. Except tor Credit 912-BD (which
provides technical assistance for training 1,500 first line supervisors in
vocational and some managerial skills, development of in-plant training
and overseas training of sector corporations' training officers), none of
these were aimed at the overall development ot business management educa-
tion and training programs in Bangladesh. However, the Second Technical
Assistance Project (622-BD) and three industrial sector projects did
provide some management related training. For example (a) technical
assistance, including overseas training ot local officers, was provided
under Credit 1065-BD to improve sub-project review and refinance
capabilities of the Bangladesh Bank, as well as appraisal and supervision
capabilities of credit institutions financing small scale industries; and
(b) training of mid-level managers in various public sector enterprises
are being financed under the Jute and Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation
Projects (Credits 1023-BD and 1032-BD, respectively). Most of these
interventions were somewhat ad hoc assistance to various industrial sector
operations designed to assist them overcome some of their immediate
management constraints, particularly as they related to the implementation
of the respective IDA projects and did not address the larger institu-
tional, organizational and methodological problems of management training
and development.
3.02    Implementation of On-going Education Sector Projects:  Performance
in implementation has been generally marked by delays especially with the
First Education project. Since then, however, the situation has improved
steadily, despite the fact that subsequent projects have become larger and
1/ IBRD Report 2037a-BD, vol. VI.
2/  Including the proposed project, the others are Agricultural and Tech-
nical Education (407-BD - US$ 21 M); Agricultural and Rural Training
(621-BD - US$ 12 M); Vocational Training (912-BD - US$ 25 M); Primary
Education (1054-BD - US$ 40 M).



-21-
more complex in design and objective. The following summary of progress
of each project describes the experiences and measures taken to overcome
problems. The First Education Project (Credit 407-BD) was completed two
and one-half years behind schedule. The main factors causing delays were
(a) difficulties in renegoiating pre-war contracts for professional serv-
ices, (b) shortages of building materials, (c) frequent changes in project
management, and (d) shortage of local funds. Nevertheless, preliminary
indications are that BAU has now become the main source for training
agricultural manpower in the country. The introduction of new programs
designed to improve the practical skills of students and to increase their
involvement in extension and research, has made the university's program
more relevant. Experts recruited under the Second Education Proiect, who
will assist BAU define its role in training, research and extension, will
also help in reaching the objective of improved quality. The Second
Education Education Project (Credit 621-BE) is due for completion in June
1982, after a one-year extension. The project has suffered, to a lesser
extent, from those problems encountered under the first project. The
physical aspects of development have proceeded relatively satisfactorily,
with most buildings and facilities having been completed without undue
delay. The overall coordination of project implementation, a respon-
sibility of the National Committee for Rural Training (NCRT) has, however,
been weak.  As a consequence, although the output of the Agricultural
Training Institutes (ATIs) has been achieved, the quality of training
leaves much to be desired. Fellowship provision for ATI teaching staff
development has also not been fully utilized and the selection of
qualified teachers for additional training abroad has only been recently
initiated. An earlier implementation of the fellowship program could have
attracted better and more dedicated teachers to the ATIs. Finally, the
administration of the ATIs suffered because of inadequate management
within Directorate of Agricultural Extension. This poor management situa-
tion resulted in the uneven distribution ot students among the various
ATIs causing overcrowding in many places and delays in students starting
their regular school year. Within the last year, the Government has taken
a number of steps with IDA's support which has begun to rectify most of
these problems. Indications are that the project has been successtul in
meeting increased manpower needs, but the quality of institutions and the
content of training programs still need considerable improvement. Under
the Third Education Project (Credit 921-BD), in order to strengthen
implementation capacity and to avoid repetition of earlier delays, special
arrangements were made which included (a) approval of the Project
Proforma, and signing ot the Technical Assistance Contract as conditions
of credit effectiveness, (b) establishing a revolving fund to avoid delays
caused by taka shortages, (c) hiring a Project Manager with wide
experience in projct management/implementation, (d) training of PIU staff,
(e) hiring a local consultant to design a project accounting system which
would integrate IDA and GOB's financial requirements, and (f) appointing
local counterparts to expatriate consultants as a condition of disburse-
ment. There is every indication that the above measures have prevented



-22-
problems experienced uinder the first two projects. Similarly, in the
Fourth Education Project (Credit 1054-BD), further attempts have been made
to strengthen administrative arrangements and implementation capacity.
Special efforts have been made to see that the central Project Implementa-
tion Unit (PIU) is adequately staff in all functional areas, and that
seven smaller Regional Project Units are established at the local level.
All project staff will undergo a training program during the first year ot
the project to familiarize them with project concepts and objectives.
Progress has been steady, since it was declared effective in December
1980. The training program for PIU staft, administrators, evaluators and
teachers in the primary education system is on schedule.
3.03    Other Donor Assistance:  Two other donor agencies have also sup-
ported GOB efforts for improving business management education and train-
ing programs. An UNDP/ILO project called "Assistance to the National
Management Development Program (BGD/74/011, March 1977 - March 1981)"
provided assistance to BMDC to upgrade its training programs, staff and
facilities at a total project cost ot about US$ 2.0 M. Ford Foundation
tinanced establishment of IBA and is now assisting development of some of
its special programs.
3.04    Future IDA Lending Strategy:  The overall education and training
sector strategy for IDA lending is to support, in line with GOB
priorities, basic education activities (primary education, mass
literacy/non-formal adult education), lower level vocational and technical
training (including agriculture) and specialized training in the strategic
subsectors such as business management and public administration. While
the proposed project would support expansion and upgrading of the business
management education and training programs, another project for improving
public administration tacilities and programs is now being prepared with
UNDP assistance for possible IDA financing during FY83. Since the
long-term IDA strategy is to focus on basic education and lower level
training, the two above mentioned projects dealing with public administra-
tion and business management development are being designed as comprehen-
sive and integrated intervention to assist Bangladesh in overcoming some
of the basic weaknesses in these critical areas.



-23-
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Origin
4.01    The proiect was first identified, in broad terms, by an IDA Educa-
tion and Training Sector review mission in October 1977 as part of a
larger proiect including vocational and women's training. The Bank's
March 1978 reconnaissance mission discussed the project outlines with GOB,
but only the IBA component was selected for possible Bank Group financing.
The UNESCO preparation mission of April - May 1978 prepared the IBA com-
ponent which included proposals for construction and equipping of addi-
tional physical facilities, additional faculty and overseas fellowship and
support for expanding IBA's management education program. Subsequently,
another consultant visited Dacca in August 1979 to identify and help
prepare the remaining components. His report focused on development of
Civil Service Training academies. The two proposals, one with respect
to the Civil Service academies and IBA, were then combined into the Public
Administration and Management Training Project (Project Briet dated August
23, 1978). As the IBA component was fairly advanced in preparation, it
was appraised as part of the Primary Education Project (Credit 1054-BD).
However, it was subsequently agreed between IDA and the Government that
the IBA component should be excluded from the above project, because (a)
the component did not constitute a logical part of the Primary Education
Project, (b) the component would have involved an investment (US$ 8.5 M)
that was much bigger than envisioned by GOB and more importantly, (c) a
more broad based project that would address the basic weaknesses of the
entire business management education training system, and hence include
not only the development of IBA but also the possible improvement of other
maior institutions involved in business management education and training
programs, would be more appropriate. An IDA mission consisting of Messrs.
M.O. Farruk (IDA) and L. Nehrt (Management Education and Training Consult-
ant) visited Bangladesh during August 1980 and developed the outline of
such a project.  The recommendations were contained in an Aide Memoire
(dated August 20, 1980) submitted to GOB, which indicated general agree-
ment to the proposals. Following further review with GOB and by IBRD
staff at Headquarters and the Resident Mission in Bangladesh, a revised
Project Brief was issued on February 24, 1981. The project was appraised
by an IDA mission consisting of Messrs. M.O. Farruk (IDA), B.G. Shah, G.
Howell and R. Makharita (consultants) during March 1981.
Project Objectives and Scope
4.02    The proposed project would assist GOB in effecting the much needed
qualitative and quantitative improvements in the country's business
management capabilities (paras 1.1 and 2.29-2.30) by overcoming some of
the basic weaknesses and constraints in business management education and
training programs in Bangladesh (paras 2.04-2.26). Specifically, the
objectives would be to:



-24-
(a) improve the quality, content and relevance of existing (i)
graduate and post-graduate level business management educa-
tion, and (ii) post-experience business management training
programs;
(b) promote linkage and interaction between management educators,
and researchers;
(c) foster development of business management literature and
teaching materials reflecting Bangladeshi institutional and
environmental settings; and
(d) increase the overall supply of graduate, post-graduate and
trained business management personnel.
4.03    To attain the above objectives, the proposed project would assist
the Institute of Business Administration, the Faculties of Commerce at the
Dacca, Chittagong and Raishahi IJniversities, and the Bangladesh Management
Development Center to (a) upgrade the qualification and training of thteir
respective faculties; (b) make appropriate changes in the curriculum,
course content, teaching methods and pedagogy to make them more effective,
practical, job-oriented and responsive to the country's needs; (c)
expand/improve existing physical facilities (only at IBA); (d) increase
the availability of equipment, textbooks, journals and other essential
instructional materials; and (e) strengthen faculty research and
tacuLty/student exposure to problems of industry.
Proiect Strategy
4.04    Project assistance would be geared primarily towards improving the
quality of existing programs and to creating an institutional infrastruc-
ture, including development of a pool of qualified and professionally
trained management educators, researchers, trainers and consultants, that
would be able to cater to the country's long-term need for a cadre of
professionally trained business management personnel. Nearly 70% of the
investments would be for staff development (para 4.05), curriculum chan-
ges, textbooks, research and overall pedagogical improvements (para 4.06).
Only about 18% of the investments would be for expansion of physical
facilities and that too will be only at IBA in order to support expansion
of of its M.B.A. degree and executive development programs (para 2.12).
4.05    Any real attempt to improve the quality of management education
must start with rigorous and high quality advanced formal academic train-
ing of selected faculty in relevant courses and in appropriate institu-
tions. Such a pool of trained manpower would then provide the core of any
program to raise academic standards. The IBA faculty, drawn largely from
local commerce degree holders, was built up through a substantial overseas
training program under Ford Foundation grants (nearly 87% of its faculty



-25-
has advanced degrees) which largely explains the relatively superior
performance of this institution. The proposed proiect would, therefore,
provide funds for overseas training of faculty members of IBA, Commerce
Faculties and BMDC (paras 4.09 - 4.11). The University System and GOB
require their overseas fellows to return and serve their respective
institutions for a minimum period of 3 to 5 years on completion of their
training. Past records in this regard are satisfactory. For example,
between 1956-66 and 77-78, 25 fellowships were awarded to IBA faculty. 23
of them returned and joined the faculty; the other two had failed. Only
tour left the Institute after completion of their bond period. Out of the
30 commerce faculty members (19 from Dacca, 7 from Chittagong and 4 from
Raishahi) sent for overseas degrees between 1970-78, 22 have already
returned and joined their respective faculties; the remaining have not yet
completed their studies. 1/
4.06    The development of a core of highly qualified faculty is the most
vital part of the strategy of qualitative improvement in the institutions
but alone is not sufficient to ensure the desired improvements. The whole
teaching environment must be improved with actions complementary to the
raising of teachers' qualifications. To this end the project would sup-
port (i) the development of modernized, practically-oriented curricula
more relevant to the management of enterprises in Bangladesh; (ii) better
equipped teaching facilities through the provision of relevant equipment
and teaching aids and upgraded libraries to support teaching and research;
(iii) expansion ot research activities and case development to give
faculty greater insight into local management problems; and (iv) closer
links with industry (para 4.07). These actions are self-reinforcing and
should lead to a better qualified staff teaching a more relevant cur-
riculum in a much more attractive teaching environment.
4.07    Unless appropriate linkages between business and industry on the
one hand and management educators and trainers on the other are created,
management education and training will continue to remain ineffective,
irrelevant and non-responsive to the needs of the industry. Such linkages
are usually established through training of practising managers, in-plant
consultancy assistance, and research into industrial problems by manage-
ment educators/trainers working in the formal academic institutions. The
proposed proiect through strengthening the training program and research
activities at the Faculties of Commerce, IBA and BMDC and by providing
short-term industrial internship tor the faculty, would create such
linkages and thereby reduce one of the fundamental structural inadequacies
in present arrangements.
1/ Relevant data with respect to overseas training programs at other
universities and faculties also show similar trends.



-26-
4.08    Improvements in the curriculum, teaching methods, materials and
techniques and in the overall/learning environment at the management
education and training institutes proposed to be developed under the
prolect would occur through systematic and well-programmed infusions of
new and advanced skills, knowledge and techniques from appropriate
institutions outside of Bangladesh. The infusion as well as adaptation of
higher level knowledge and skills would be through: (a) rigorous and high
quality advanced degree programs for carefully selected faculty members of
IBA, Commerce Faculties and BMDC at reputable schools overseas and (b)
advisory services by experienced and high calibre management educators,
trainers and researchers from appropriate overseas institutions. To
facilitate this process, the participating management education institu-
tions in Bangladesh would establish close linkages and collaboration with
one or more center(s) of excellence overseas, who would provide the neces-
sary technical and professional expertise in implementing the proposed
improvement programs. As far as practical, overseas training fellowships
would be awarded in only a small number of institutions. The latter would
make possible the development of special relationships between the
institutions providing training and the trainees' parent institutions in
Bangladesh, which could then be exploited to provide the resources for
long-term improvements/changes in the institutions to which the trained
taculty would return. Draft terms of reference for selecting the techni-
cal assistance institution(s) have already been agreed with GOB (para
6.05) as a condition of Board presentation. GOB has identified such an
institution and has issued a letter ot intent to it.A condition of credit
effectiveness would be that a formal contract with an overseas institu-
tion(s) with qualifications, experience and on terms of reference satis-
factory to IDA (para 6.05) had been executed. During negotiations,
details of the proposed eligibility conditions, criteria and procedures
for selecting fellows for overseas training were discussed with the GOB
delegation and agreed by IDA.



-27-
Project Components
4.09    Assistance to the Institute of Business Administration (proposed
outlay US$ 3.2 M): 1/ Project assistance would be aimed at expanding the
output of graduates (M.B.A.s) and management trainees as well as improving
the quality, coverage and effectiveness of these programs. By 1986, the
output of M.B.A.s would increase to 240, the executive development courses
and seminars would increase to 30 (900 participants) 2/ and there would be
substantial increase in faculty participation in research, case develop-
ment and management consultancy. The inputs would be as follows: (a)
faculty development: The faculty would be increased by another 20 mem-
bers. This would allow IBA to maintain its present teacher-student ratio
of about 1:12 and enable the faculty to devote about 30% of its time to
research, case development, in-plant training and consultancy. 48 man
years ot overseas fellowship (5 Ph.D.s and 16 M.B.A.s) would be provided
for advanced degrees in Business Management/Management Science. The
faculty recruitment and training program would be geared towards
strengthening currently deticient subjects (e.g., computer science,
behavioral sciences, operations research, business policy, professional
cost accountancy, managerial economics) and for introducing specialities
in new fields such as utilities and energy resource management, interna-
tional business, public sector management, management of social sectors,
etc. (para 2.16). The above components of the faculty development program
were discussed and agreed with IBA during appraisal; (b) technical assis-
tance: 3/ three man years of visiting professorship would be provided to
assist IBA in reviewing the curricula, instructional methods and
materials, and the problems of low intake and high wastage of its students
(para 2.12). It was agreed during appraisal that the curriculum review
would focus on (i) the structure of the M.B.A. program, particularly the
relative weights currently assigned to different compulsory subjects and
between electives and compulsory subjects, (ii) course content, duration
and its relevance to the Bangladesh environment (para 2.17) and (iii)
designing of courses in the new fields to be included in IBA's academic
program (para 2.17).  Consultants would also assist IBA in thoroughly
reviewing the student selection criteria and recommend measures for
improving academic performance by admitted candidates; (c) research and
case development: funds would be provided for initiating and completing
40 research projects and 150 new case studies. This would lead to the
development of local management literature and teaching materials reflect-
ing Bangladesh's institutional and environmental setting. Most impor-
tantly, through this process, the faculty would get the necessary exposure
1/ This and subsequent estimates in this section exclude contingencies.
2/ Compared to the 1979-80 output of 80 M.B.A.s and 16 executive develop-
ment courses and seminars (350) participants). Annex 1.
3/  Funds would be provided to the University Grants Commission to retain
consultants for implementing this program. See para 4.12.



-28-
to practical management problems and management personnel; (d) library
development: funds would be provided for procuring textbooks, reference
books, journals and periodicals (acquisition of back volumes as well as
current subscriptions for five years) and for short-term overseas training
of the librarian. A tentative list of the proposed acquisitions was
reviewed during appraisal and was agreed upon; (e) equipment: the projiect
would provide funds for procuring essential equipment and instructional
aids such as typewriters, photocopy machines, overhead projectors, desk
calculators, etc. A microbus with a seating capacity of 16 persons would
be provided to facilitate field trips by faculty and students. A small
teaching computer with the necessary hardware configuration and software
would be procured and installed to facilitate instruction in programming
languages and system design, strengthen pedagogy in courses in other
functional areas by making available canned software for financial
analysis, statistical analysis and business games, and to facilitate data
processing for faculty research. Additionally, 40 desk-top
micro-computers would also be provided. 1/ A proposed list of equipment
was agreed with IBA during appraisal; (f) civil works: funds would be
provided for renovating the three existing floors of the IBA building and
constructing an additional two floors on the existing superstructure, 2/
constructing and furnishing a hostel tor 125 students and 25 management
trainees and constructing 20 residential flats for faculty. Expansion of
the IBA building would be necessary to accomodate additional classrooms,
taculty offices, seminar rooms and the enlarged library facilities. Cur-
rently, two faculty members (out.of 23) have on-campus housing, although
nearly 40% of the teachers in the other faculties have such accomodation.
Recently, IBA lost tour of its trained staff as they could not be provided
with housing. By increasing the availability of on-campus housing for
its staff, IBA should be able to retain and attract qualified and trained
staff. Dacca University has an acute student housing problem as only 30%
of enrolled students can be accomodated in the existing residential halls.
Consequently, the halls are overcrowded and most of the rooms are occupied
by more students than the room size would allow. Construction of the
1/ A CPU with 64 K. bytes of core, 6 terminals, 20 Mega bytes of disc
space, 300 lpm printer, 300 cpm card holder. In addition, application
of software would be required for solving small sized problems in
linear programming, PERT/CPT, financial analysis and statistical
analysis. A floor space of about 1500 ft. would be required for
housing the computer, terminal rooms and operators. A 10 ton air
conditioning plant would be required for air conditioning the above
areas. Alternatively, IBA would consider installing a number of
mini-computers instead of a single one.
2/ One of the new floors would be designed and constructed especially
to house the expanded library and computer facilities.



-29-
dormitory would help IBA attract a better calibre of students and allow
increased recruitment of students from outside the Dacca area which would
also help its intake problem. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that staff houses and dormitory facilities constructed under the project
would be for the exclusive use ot the IBA faculty, students and management
trainees. As a condition of negotiations, the necessary land for con-
struction of the proposed student hostel and faculty housing had already
been allocated by the Dacca University.
4.10    Development of the Faculties of Commerce at the Dacca, Chittagong
and Raishahi Universities (proposed outlay US$ 1.7 M): The primary pur-
pose of assistance to the Commerce Faculties would be to equip them to
play a more effective role in providing business management education and
training (paras 2.17-2.19), especially to prepare professionals for first
line supervisory/managerial positions. Given the inadequacies of the
programs and resources in these institutions (paras 2.20-2.22) proposed
project assistance would be geared towards improving the quality of their
throughputs by making their education and training programs more job
related, practical and application oriented. Hence, no expansion of the
output of commerce graduates is envisaged. The Project would not finance
additional faculty positions, but would consolidate, strengthen and
upgrade the qualifications and experiences of existing faculty. Addi-
tional faculty, as required, would be appointed according to university
guidelines which among others, take into consideration factors such as the
number of courses offered in a department, class loads of individual
teachers, teacher-student ratio, etc. and the consequential costs would be
borne out of the Universities' recurrent budget provisions. The essential
elements of this component are as follows: (a) faculty development and
advanced training: (iV  overseas degree training:  Currently, only about
20% of the commerce faculty members have overseas degrees, compared to an
university-wide average of 32%. The proposed project would provide 36
manyears of fellowship to Dacca, 21 manyears each to Chittagong and to
Rajshahi Universities for advanced training of the faculty. This would
result in about 32% of the faculty having post-graduate advanced degrees
(10.% Ph.D. and 30% Masters) at the end of the project period. 1/ The
Ph.D. programs would be structured for two years of coursework in overseas
universities followed (or intervened) by one year of dissertation research
in Bangladesh. This would permit exposure to the rigors ot the dis-
cipline, work methods and instructional materials in foreign business
schools without complete alienation from the realities of the situation
where the individuals will return to work. The training program would be
geared towards meeting the needs of the faculty in introducing modern
1/ It is assumed that total faculty strength during 1986-87 would be
about 90, 53 and 50 for the Dacca, Chittagong and Rajshahi Univer-
sities, respectively.



-30-
managment subjects and increasing the conceptual and analytical content of
courses. (ii) short-term industrial attachment: in order to increase
faculty exposure to the practical problems of management, the project
would provide funds (covering travel and subsistence expenses) for faculty
members to spend about 8 weeks during the summer vacation at selected
industrial/commercial enterprises in Bangladesh. About 2/3 of the com-
merce faculty members would be covered during the project period. 1/
Faculty members would be required to identify a suitable subject (project)
for investigation/study and also the enterprise to which he/she would like
to be attached. This would then form the basis of the financial assis-
tance. At the end of the attachment, the participant would prepare a
report on the findings of the study. Agreements were reached during
negotiations that the respective universities would take measures to make
faculty participation in this program obligatory. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that by January 31 ot each calendar year, the
respective faculties would prepare and submit to IDA details concerning
that year's industrial attachment program; (b) curriculum development:
funds would be provided to the UGC (para 4.12) for employing visiting
professors to assist the three faculties in reviewing the present cur-
riculum, course contents and teaching methods and materials with a view to
recommending changes for making the B. Com. and M. Comi  programs more
iob-related and responsive to the needs of potential employers. The
proposed review would, among other things, pay particular attention to (i)
the structure of courses within and across the various departments of the
faculties with a view to rationalizing them, avoiding apparent overlap and
duplication, and ensuring optimum utilization of faculty time; (ii)
examining the adequacy of exposure to environmental and analytical tools
as well as the social sciences and humanities subjects; (iii) assessing
the scope for changes in the student evaluation system; and (iv) develop-
ing a program for generating practical exercises, problem sets, caselets
and incidents and similar other practically oriented instruction material;
(c) research and case development: the proposed project would finance
50 project research and 250 case development studies by the Dacca Univer-
sity Commerce Faculty, and about 30 project researches and 150 case
development studies by each of the faculties at Chittagong and Rajshahi.
On an average, each project research would cost about Taka 5,000 and case
development about Taka 3,000; (d) books, periodicals, equipment and furni-
ture: currently, the university libraries do not have more than 3-4
textbooks for each course and consequently students have to depend
entirely on the materials noted down during class lectures. Funds have
been provided (Taka 1.7 M for the Chittagong, Taka 1.6 M for Rajshahi and
Taka 2.0 M for the Dacca University) for the procurement of necessary
textbooks, reference texts, periodicals/journals (back issues as well as
1/ Part of the funds could also be used for internship of post-graduate
students.



-31-
subscription for 5 years) etc. This would provide to each university
approximately 2,500 volumes and ten professional journals. Funds have
been provided for additional furniture for the library and seminar rooms
and essential equipment for the statistical laboratory including 5
micro-computers for each of the faculties, and audio-visual aids for
instruction. This investment would make a significant contribution to
the improvement of the academic atmosphere and overall pedagogy. A, tenta-
tive list of the above acquisitions was agreed with the universities
during appraisal and would be finalized during negotiations; (e) summer
seminars: nearly 50% of the Masters degree enrollments of the Commerce
Faculties ot the universities, and about 16% of the M.B.A. enrollments at
IBA are graduates of the affiliated colleges. Average quality of these
graduates is lower than those from the universities and contributes
heavily to the low quality of the M. Com. graduates of the universities
and dropouts at TBA. In the past, the universities have organized, with
assistance from USAID and other donors, summer seminars for college
teachers of the science departments with a view to exposing them to better
teaching methods and materials and the efforts proved to be a low-cost but
effective method for diffusing improved classroom techniques. The
proposed project would provide to the three faculties of commerce a total
of Taka 2.0 M to organize a series ot such seminars for the teachers of
commerce subjects in the affiliated colleges. Seminars would involve
batches of 25-30 persons for periods ot about six weeks and would cover
about 400 teachers during the project period. The funds provided under
the project would finance travel and subsistence for the participants,
cost of 4 textbooks per participant, reproduction of instructional
materials and honoraria for the seminar resource persons. This would be a
pilot attempt and the impact would be closely monitored during implementa-
tion; (f) post-experience training program: the involvement of Commerce
Faculties' staff in post-experience training is important on three
grounds: firstly, it will provide the faculty with the necessary feedback
from the industry, thus permitting them to develop practically oriented
instructional materials; secondly, Commerce Faculty members are better
equipped to impart training in the functional areas of finance, marketing
and accounting; and thirdly, the resources at IBA and BMDC are not ade-
quate to meet the very large post-experience training needs of the top
four levels of management at the corporate, regional and enterprise
levels. Faculty members at Dacca University have been involved in such
management training programs since 1975 (para 2.21 and Table 5), albeit on
individual initiatives. Chittagong University, being too far away from
the enterprise centers, is locationally disadvantaged to organize such
programs at its university campus. However, its faculty would collaborate
with the BMDC training center in Chittagong.   Rajshahi University is
ideally located to organize such training programs for the small scale
enterprises which exist in large numbers within a radius ot less than 100
miles.  No funds have been provided under the proposed project to meet the
expenses ot these seminars, because those would be sponsored by industry.
Agreements were reached at negotiations that the respective university



-32-
authorities would facilitate faculty participation in such training
activities by allowing use of university premises, facilities and staff
time.
4.11    Development of Bangladesh Management Development Center (proposed
outlay US$ 1.2 M):   The proposed project would assist BMDC in (a) expand-
ing its output of trainees from the current level of 1400 to about 2300
and the output ot its one-year diploma course from 33 to 95 per annum by
1986 1/ ; (b) improving the quality of instruction, instructional
materials and content and scope of the curriculum; (c) strengthening its
embryonic programs for training of managers in the non-formal (small
scale) sector; and (d) increasing faculty participation in research,
consultancy and case development. The following assistance is proposed:
(a) staff development: funds would be provided to recruit another 23
faculty members (based on an estimated instructor/trainee hours ratio of
1:5000 per annum) during the five year project development period.
Eighteen manyears of fellowship (2 year Masters' program for 9 staff
members) would be provided to upgrade the qualification of the existing
faculty and new entrants, and 20 manmonths for short-term advanced train-
ing (non-degree) of graduate and post-graduate degree holders on the
faculty. Staff training would be geared towards developing faculty
specialization and expertise in specific skills areas such as production
management, inventory control, materials management, preventative main-
tenance, etc. and in the newer innovative areas like management training
for small scale enterprises in the non-formal areas and entrepreneurship
development; (b) curriculum development: 42 man months of
expatriate/local consultant services would be provided to assist BMDC in
reviewing its curriculum and course content with a view to consolidation
and rationalization of existing programs and designing/developing new
ones, and for program development at the two new sub-centers at Khulna and
Chittagong; (c) furniture and equipment: funds would be provided for
furnishing student hostels, classrooms and library, purchasing three
16-seat microbuses to facilitate transportation of participants and field
trips by faculty, and for other training aids and equipment (e.g., movie
and slide projectors, tape recorders, typewriters, photocopy machines,
etc.) (the preliminary equipment list was tentatively agreed to by the
appraisal mission and would be finalized during negotiations); (d) library
development: the project would provide 2,000 volumes of textbooks and
reference books to the library at the Dacca Center of BMDC (currently it
has about 7,000 volumes) and build up the libraries at the Chittagong 2/
1/ Diploma courses in personnel management are offered as a part-time
study program for junior level graduate executives to enable them to
upgrade their professional qualifications.
2/  The center has a library, but no books have yet been procured.



-33-
and Khulna sub-centers. Additionally, funds would be provided for buying
subscriptions to professional journals; (e) research and case development:
a sum of Taka 0.6 M would be provided to expand BMDC research and case
development activities. It is estimated that during the five years BMDC
would develop about 150 cases, and complete 30 research projects.
4.12    Implementation Assistance to UGC (US$ 0.7 M):  Taka 13.9 M (US$
0.6 M) would be provided to cover the costs of employing about 5 manyears
of expatriate consultants/visiting professors, and Taka 0.8 M (US$ 36,000)
for employing 50 manmonths of local consultants to assist in the planning,
implementation and monitoring of the proposed programs for faculty
development and improvements in curriculum, teaching methods, materials
and techniques, at IBA and the three Commerce Faculties. The visiting
experts would work closely with and advise the proposed Curriculum Review
Committee (para 6.07), the Dean of the Commerce Faculties and the Director
of IBA. Taka 0.7 M (US$ 31,000) would be provided for short-term visits
to overseas institutions by the Deans of the Commerce Faculties, the
Director of the IBA and the Project Coordinator. 1/ Taka 0.3 M would be
provided for employing a full-time Project Coordinator, 2/ and other
support staff and Taka 0.5 M for equipment (such as typewriters, cal-
culators, etc.) in order to strengthen UGC's capabilities for supervising
the implementation of the IBA and Commerce Faculties components (paras
6.04 - 6.08).
1/  The funds would also cover an overseas visit by the Director of BMDC.
2/ The appointee would not be below the rank of a university professor.



-34-
V.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Project Costs
5.01    Total project costs including physical and price contingencies,
taxes and duties over the five-year implementation period (1982-83/86-87)
are estimated at US$ 9.6 M, of which US$ 6.7 M or 70% constitutes foreign
exchange costs. Physical and price contingencies are estimated at US$ 2.7
M or approximately 39.7% of base costs. Total project costs classified by
component and expense category are summarized in Tables 6, 7 and 8.
TABLE 6: Summary of Proiect Costs (b Com onent)
(Details at Annex 4, Tables 1-10)
Taka (M)                        US$ (M)
Component              Local   Foreign   Total         Local   For n   Total
IBA                     28.3      42.4      70.7        1.3       1.9      3.2
Commerce Faculties        5.3     31.7      37.0        0.2       1.4       1.7
(Dacca)               (2.0)   (13.9)    16.0         (0.1)    (0.6)    (0.7)
(Chittagong)          (1.6)    (9.0)    10.6         (0.1)    (0.4)    (0.5)
(Raishahi)            (1.7)    (8.8)    10.4         (0.1)    (0.4)    (0.5)
BMDC                      6.1     21.3       2.4        0.3       1.0       1.2
UGC I/                    1.1      14.4     15.5        0.0       0.7       0.7
Base Costs              40.8    109.8    150.6          1.9       5.0      6.9
Contingencies
Physical                  3.4      7.5      10.8        0.3       0.3      0.5
Price                    19.6     29.6      49.2        0.9       1.3       2.2
Total                    63.8    146.9    210.6         2.9       6.7      9.6
(with Contingencies)
1/  Technical assistance costs for program development at the IBA and
Commerce Faculties included.
Note: All figures are rounded.



-35-
TABLE 7: Summary of Project Costs (by Expense Category)
Taka M
IBA    Faculties    BMDC    UGC    Total         US$ M
Civil Works              37.7        -           -        -      37.7        1.7
Library Books, etc.       5.8       5.3         2.2       -      13.2        0.6
Fellowship               16.1      23.0         7.2       -      46.3        2.1
Research Support          0.8       2.2         0.6       -       3.6        0.2
Technical Assistance       1/        1/         9.2    14.7    23.1          1.0
Incremental Staff         4.2        -          4.0      0.3      8.5        o.4
Internships & Seminars   -          2.0           -       -       2.0        0.09
Furniture, Vehicles
& Equipment             6.3       4.3         4.3      0.5    15.4         0.7
Base Costs               70.7      37.0        27.4    15.5   150.6          6.8
Contingencies            31.4      14.5         9.2      5.1    60.0         2.7
Total Cost              102.1      51.5        36.6    20.6   210.6 2/    9.6
US$ M                     4.6       2.3          1.7     0.7
1/ Shown under UGC allocations.
2/ Includes taxes and duties estimated at Taka 9.5 M.
Note: Exchange rate used is US$ 1 = Tk 22.0.
Base Cost Estimates
5.02    Base cost estimates are in April 1981 prices updated to October
1982 and were calculated on the tollowing basis:
(a) Construction Costs:  The average cost per sq. ft. for the
construction or IBA buildings, dormitory and statf quarters
were estimated at Taka 300 and represent actual cost of con-
struction ot ongoing civil works in Dacca. Renovation costs
for the existing IBA building was estimated at Taka 100 per
sq. ft. as estimated by the University engineer;
(b) Equipment, Furniture and Vehicles: Based on lists prepared
by respective institutions and price quotation (CIF) by sup-
pliers for current procurements;



-36-
(c) LibrarX Books: Based on publishers price for standard text-
books tor business management courses;
(d) Technical Assistance: (i) visiting professors on compensation
otfered to exchange professors trom overseas universities, at
US$ 120,000 per manyear (including overhead costs of the
technical assistance institution); (ii) local consultants:
on past Bank experience, adjusted to 1982, at Taka 15,000 per
manmonth;
(e) Fellowship Costs: On estimates provided by university
authorities of expenditures incurred on tellows currently
abroad, adjusted by estimates obtained for a sample of busi-
ness schools in the U.S.A. (US$ 15,250 per manyear); 1/
(f) Staff Salaries: On GOB payscales for universities and BMDC
statf, including provident tund, housing, medical and other
benefits, at Taka 45,000 per manyear;
(g) Other Local Costs (e.g., industrial attachment, research and
case studies, summer seminars, etc.): On estimates obtained
from the Universities.
Area Allocation and Costs per Student
5.03    Unit areas and costs of new facilities (net ot contingencies,
operating costs and costs for professional services) are at Annex 3.
Gross area per student place for academic and communal facilities averages
about 186 sq. ft.; total investment cost per student place for academic
and communal facilities average about US $2,866 for IBA. These are lower
than the average cost estimate for similar Bank financed projects during
1978-80. Area allocation for student boarding facilities (160 sq. ft.)
and statf housing (1,300 sq. ft.) are in conformity with national stand-
ards.
ForeigaEchageom2onent
5.04    Based on an analysis of the direct ad indirect foreign exchange
expenditures of the various expense items, the foreign exchange component
has been estimated as tollows: (a) civil works including site development
40%, (b) overseas fellowships: 90%, (c) consultant services (expatriate):
100%, (d) library books and professional journals: 90%, (e) equipment and
1/ Includes about 5% as placement cost.



-37-
vehicles: 90%, (t) furniture: 40%. Total toreign exchange component is
estimated at US$ 6.7 M or 70% of total costs including contingencies.
Contingency Allowances
5.05    Physical contingencies were estimated at 10% for civil works and
5% tor all other items of expenditures. Price contingencies tor local
costs were based on the following inflation rates, compounded annually:
20% for 1982, 15% for 1983, 13% for 1984, 10% for 1985, 11% for 1986 and
10% for 1987. Price contingency estimates for foreign costs were based on
international intlation rates compounded annually of 8% for 1982-83, 7.5%
tor 1984, 7% for 1985 and 6% tor 1986-87. No difterence between
categories ot expenditure was assumed.
Custom Duties and Taxes
5.06    All imported goods are subject to custom duties and taxes.
However, text books, instructional materials and training equipment
imported tor educational projects are duly exempt. Consequently, the only
expenditures in the proiect that include a tax component are construction
materials and vehicles, which is estimated at about US$ 0.4 M, equivalent,
or about 4% ot total costs including contingencies.
Financing Plan (Table 8 for Details)
5.07    The total project costs ot US$ 9.6 M would be financed as follows:
(a) IDA would finance 100% ot foreign exchange costs estimated
at US$ 6.7 M and 38% of local costs amounting to US$ 1.1 M.
Total IDA financing or US$ 7.8 M would thus cover about 85%
of total proiect costs net of duties and taxes. This level
ot IDA tinancing is based on the following grounds: (i) the
proposed project has a high foreign exchange component which,
of necessity, needs to be externally financed given the
country's external resource constraints; (ii) the proposed
investments are in the fields of human resource development,
institution building, and quality improvement ot education and
training programs in areas ot specialized professional
development, none of which, despite acknowledged performance,
generally receive priority in local funding (iii) the proposed
project is non-revenue earning, and finally, (iv) smooth and
eftective implementation ot the proiect would contribute to
the long-term development of the country's business management
capabilities, which are ot vital importance to the country's
growth in the industrial sector;



-38-
(b) the Government ot Bangladesh would tinance about 19% of total
project costs amounting to US$ 1.8 M (equivalent to Taka 40 M)
whtch is about 15% of project costs net of duties and taxes.
(c) Recurrent Expenditures. IDA would tinance incremental recur-
rent expenditures to cover upto (a) 60% of salaries and wages
tor teaching and support staft tor IBA and BMDC (on a declin-
ing basis, e.g., 100% in the first year, 90% in second year,
75% in the third year and 50% in the fitth year); and (b) 60%
ot expenditure incurred for research, case studies, faculty
internship and summer seminars.
TABLE 8: Details of IDA and GOB Financing
(US$ M)
Expense Category             GOB       IDA       Total        IDA Financing %
Civil Works                  0.4        1.8        2.2             80
Vehicles/Equipment            0.1       0.5        0.6             90
Furniture                     0.1      0.2         0.3             60
Library Books, etc.           0.1       0.6        0.7             90
Fellowship and Consultant
Services                    -        3.6        3.6             100
Research Support,
Seminars and Intern-
ships                    0.2       0.2        0.4              60
Incremental Staff            0.2       0.3         0.5             60
Sub-total                     1.1      7.2         8.3
Contingencies                 0.3       0.6        0.9
Total Project Cost            1.4       7.8        9.2             81
Taxes                         0.4                  0.4
Net Project Cost              1.8       7.8        9.6             85
GOB Recurrent Cost Implications
5.08    (a) IBA:  The Institute's current annual recurring expenditures
(1980) is approximately Taka 13 Lakhs, of which the salaries and wages
account tor about Taka 11 Lakhs. By 1986, project annual recurrent cost
would increase by another 11 Lakhs, equivalent to an 80% increase over
the 1980 expenditure level. This increase is in line with the past growth
in iBAs recurrent expenditure (110% between 1976-80);
(b) Commerce Faculties: Project induced annual incremental recur-
rent costs (salaries and wages, research costs, seminar costs, etc.) tor
all three taculties of commerce by 1986 would be about Taka 30 Lakhs.
Recurrent budgets tor the Dacca, Chittagong and Raishahi Universities and



-39-
all the Universities combined together was estimated at Taka 1400 Lakhs
and 2200 Lakhs, respectively, for 1979-80. Project induced incremental
salaries and wages costs in 1986 would therefore be about 2% or the cur-
rent expenditure level of the three concerned universities and only about
1% of the recurrent budget of all the Universities combined. GOB there-
tore should have no difticulty in meeting the project induced recurrent
costs atter completion of the proiect period in 1986;
(c) BMDC: 1979/80 recurrent costs tor BMDC amounted to Taka 30
Lakns. By 1986, annual recurrent costs are estimated to increase by
another 17 Lakhs, equivalent to an increase of 56% which is in line with
such increases in the past.
5.09    Government approval of Project Proformas (PPs) for all components
of the proposed project would be a condition ot credit ettectiveness.
Procurement 1/
5.10    Total civil works contracts would amount to US$ 2.6 M, equivalent
to Taka 57.0 M. The work would be spread over three years and would
involve construction on an existing superstructure (IBA office/faculty
building). Foreign construction firms are unlikely to be attracted to
works ot this nature. Moreover, even by local standards this is a rela-
tively small contract and a large number ot experienced local contractors
would be available to undertake the job. Therefore the contract(s) would
be let through local competitive bidding procedures using established
local procedures that are satistactory to IDA. Imported construction
materials, such as cement and steel bars, would be locally procured and
supplied by the selected contractors as individual requirements would be
too small to justify separate procurement under the project. Civil works
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 75,000 or more would
require prior IDA review of specifications, tendering procedures and
contract awards.
5.11    Contracts for equipment and vehicles (US$ 0.6 M) which, to the
extent practicable, cannot be grouped into bid packages ot $50,000 equiv-
alent or more suitable for international competitive bidding, and con-
tracts tor furniture (US$ 0.4 M) may be procured in accordance with local
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA, provided, however,
that items estimated to cost $15,000 equivalent or less may be procured
through normal commercial channels on the basis of at least 3 price quota-
tions, up to aggregate amount ot $100,000 equivalent. Library materials,
including books and journals, and teaching aids (US$ 0.9 MI), may be pur-
chased directly from publishers or authorized distributors at the lowest
1/ All procurement figures include physical and price contingencies.



-40-
quoted price. With respect to all contracts tor goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$ 25,000 or more, prior IDA review of procurement
documents would be required.
5.12    Fellowshi:s, Consultants and Visitin  Professors (US$ 4.1 M):
Recipients ot rellowsnips (US$ 2.7 M) would be selected according to
criteria and procedures to be agreed with GOB (para 4.08). Local selec-
tion procedure calls for inviting applications from intending candidates
through advertisements in the public press, which is satisfactory in
ensuring selection of best qualified candidates. Technical assistance
services, including local and toreign consultants, (US$ 1.4 M) would be
obtained in line with IDA guidelines, with individual contracts being let
under terms and conditions agreed with IDA.
5.13    Incremental Statf, Research and Seminar Costs (US$ 1.0 M):  None
of the above would be suitable for any form of competitive bidding and
selection/appointment of individuals would be in accordance with locally
established procedures.
Disbursement and Documentation
5.14    Proceeds ot the proposed IDA credit (US$ 7.8 M equivalent) would
be disbursed as tollows:
(a) Civil works and construction materials (US$ 1.8 M); 80%
(b) Vehicles ana equipment (US$ 0.5 M);
(i) directly imported; 100% of toreign expenditure
(ii) locally manufactured; 100% ot local cost, ex-factory
(iii) other (oft-the-shelt); 65%
(c) Library materials and teaching aids (US$ 0.6 M);
(i) directly imported; 100% of foreign exchange
(ii) locally procured; 90%
(d) Furniture (US$ 0.2 M); 60%
(e) Fellowships (local or overseas) and consultants (US$ 3.6 M); 100%
(f) Incremental staff salaries, faculty research, case development
Commerce Faculty seminars (US$ 0.5 M); 60%
(g) Unallocated (US$ 0.6 M).
5.15    Withdrawal applications under (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) above
would be tully documented. Disbursements under (f) would be submitted



-41-
under statements ot expenditure. The relevant supporting documentation
would be retained at one central location (or by the implementing agency,
as appropriate) and made available tor inspection by IDA staft upon
request. Expenditure disbursed against certified statements of
expenditures would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA. Withdrawal applications would be prepared by BI4DC and the
Dacca, Chittagong and Raishahi Universities. It is expected that
disbursements will be completed by December 31, 1987. A schedule of
anticipated disbursements by semester is shown in Annex 4, Table 14.
Accounts and Audits
5.16    All agencies involved in project implementation would prepare
and maintain separate accounts in accordance with sound and recognized
accounting practices to correctly reflect the project's tinancial position.
Such accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors, acceptable
to IDA. The audited accounts, together with the auditor's report, would
be sent to IDA within six months of the closing ot the relevant fiscal
year. The auditor's report would include, inter alia, a statement
verifying that funds disbursed by IDA had been used tor the their
intended purposes. Assurances covering the above would be sought at
negotiations.



-42-
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
6.01    The proposed project would be implemented over a five year
period under the guidance and supervision of a Project Steering Committee
(PSC), which would be chaired by the Chairman of the University Grants
Commission. Its membership would include the Directors of IBA and
BMDC, Deans of the three Faculties of Commerce, and one representative
each (not below the rank of Joint Secretary) from the Ministries of
Education and Industries and the External Resources Division. Establishment
of the PSC with membership, powers and functions satisfactory to IDA
would be a condition of credit effectiveness. The Director of the IBA,
the three Deans of the Commerce Faculties and the Director of the BMDC
would be directly responsible for the implementation of the respective
components. A Project Coordinator appointed within the UGC (para 6.03)
will coordinate and oversee the implementation by the participating
agencies. The implementation process will be as in the following
diagram.
/Project Steering Committee/
/Project C ordinator/
.~_ = __ 
/IBA/           /Commerce Faculties/              /BMDC/
6.02    UGC, in consultation with the respective Commerce Faculty
Deans, the Director of IBA and the Director of BMDC, would select and
appoint the overseas institution(s) with which IBA, the Commerce Faculties
and BMDC would establish collaborative programs in respect ot staft
development and overall program improvements (para 4.08). The overseas
institution(s) which could be a university or a management consultants
group or an institution combining both formal academic programs and
management consultancy, would be contracted by UGC and its responsibilities
would include, inter alia, the following: (a) assist in the preparation
ot a faculty development program (i.e., identify areas of deficiency
and/or future emphasis, recommend appropriate programs and overseas
institutions for training of faculty members); (b) assist in the review
of curriculum, teaching materials and methods, the faculty research program
and recommend measures for improving their content and relevance to
Bangladesh's needs; (c) maintain close liaision with the trainees sent
overseas under the project and provide the necessary feedback to their
parent institutions in Bangladesh; (d) provide visiting professors and
consultants as required to support the planning, implementation and
monitoring of the project (para 4.08).



-43-
6.03    UGC would appoint the Project Coordinator on a full-time basis
with the rank and status of a senior University Professor and with
recognized and wide-ranging experience and expertise in business
management education and training programs. Appointment of a person
with qualifications, experience and job responsibilities satisfactory
to IDA would be a condition of credit effectiveness. The Ptoject
Coordinator would work closely with the Deans of the Faculties, the
Directors of IBA and the BMDC and would report directly to the
Chairman of UGC. IBA, BMDC and the Commerce Faculties would be required
to submit semi-annual progress reports including financial statements
to the PSC, which would then be forwarded to IDA. The Project Coordinator
would collect reimbursement claims from the
implementing agencies for subsequent transmission to the External
Resources Division (ERD) of the Ministry of Finance and IDA. Agreement
on these procedures was reached with GOB during negotiations.
6.04    Staff Development:  The fellowship component would be
administered by UGC which is already involved in this area. It has an
established system for publicizing the availability of fellowship funds,
interviewing applicants and selecting suitable fellows. During 1979-80,
UGC processed nearly 200 applicants for overseas training under the
Commonwealth Scholarship Scheme and other donor programs. 1/
6.05    Curriculum Development:  The process of curriculum improvement is
a continuous one.  The project would start this process by initiating a
full scale review of the existing curricula and course contents, followed
by initiation of appropriate action to effect the desired changes. UGC
would sponsor this program with the assistance of the visiting
professors/consultants, who would work with the Academic Board of IBA
and the respective Boards of Studies of the Commerce Faculties. The
effort would be a concerted one by the three universities in conjunction
with significant inputs from professional managers in industry. This would
be achieved through the establishment of a Curriculum Review Committee
(CRC) headed by the chairman of UGC (or his representative not below the
rank and status of a university professor) to coordinate and guide the
activities in these regards. Detailed terms of reference and composition
of this committee (which would include representatives from industry and
commerce) was agreed with GOB during negotiations. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Committee would submit its report to
IDA by December 31, 1983, and that UGC would review with IDA the
Committee's recommendations and implementation plans. Membership of the
CRC would change periodically, but would always include academics returning
from advanced study so that regular inputs would be obtained from those
1/ Under the proposed project 55 trainees from the universities would be
awarded fellowships.



-44-
with recent exposure to the latest advances in management education.
6.06    Faculty Research and Case Development Programs:  Faculty members,
severally or individually, would identify and formulate proposals for
funding under the project. The topics would be related to some practical
aspect of manageent issues/problems and would be designed to contribute
to the development of teaching materials and local management literature.
The Committees for Advanced Studies and Research at the three universities,
as part of their normal duties, would supervise implementation of the
respective programs and ensure quality control. During appraisal the
participating institutions discussed with the mission some broad
topics/areas of faculty research to be conducted under the project.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that IBA, BMDC and the Commerce
Faculties would prepare and furnish to IDA for its comments, no later
than March 31 of each year of the project period, detailed faculty research
and case development programsto be undertaken during the following
academic year.
6.07    Civil Works at IBA:  The University of Dacca has a full-fledged
Engineering Department which would be responsible for the construction
program at IBA. No special designs would be necessary for adding the
tourth floor to the existing IBA building, because the superstructure
would be able to support the additional construction. Nevertheless,
consulting architects would be employed, if required, to assist
university engineers in planning the renovation of the existing three
floors and the interior layout of the new floor to be constructed so as to
ensure optimum utilization of available space. Staff housing and student
hostel would be built according to government designs and specifications
for such buildings. The Engineering Department of the University has,
in the past, handled construction programs of much larger magnitude than
the one proposed under this project and therefore would be able to
implement it without any problem.
6.08    Procurement of Books, Furniture, Equipment:  The Universities'
Planning and Development Officers, as part of their normal functions, would
be responsible for making procurement arrangements. The Deans of the three
faculties and the Director of IBA would prepare lists ot proposed
acquisitions in consultation with the University Librarians which would
then be forwarded to the respective Planning and Development Officers
(PDO) for processing. The PDO would be responsible for preparing tender
documents, inviting bids, making arrangements for bid evaluation and
awarding contracts.



-45-
BMDC Component
6.09    BMDC has a well established organization with requisite professional
and administrative staff and well defined operational procedures. BMDC's
existing institutional capabilities are adequate for effectively
implementing the proposed development activities. However, it would
require assistance with curriculum and program development for which
technical assistance would be provided under the proposed project (paras
4.08, 4.11 and 6.02). BMDC also prepared a detailed faculty recruitment
and training program which was finalized during negotiations. BMDC's
research programming methods are well-organized. It has a Research Division
which formulates and generates research proposals which are then reviewed
by a Research Advisory Committee (consisting of senior external
specialists in social science research).



-46-
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
7.01    The benefits expected to accrue from the proposed project relate
mainly to improvements in the quality of management education and train-
ing. Specifically, project assistance would result in: (i) a better
qualified faculty through the financing of higher degree studies for
teaching staff; (ii) improved and modernized curricula which are relevant
to local management needs: (iii) significantly expanded research
activities and case development to enrich teaching with local experience
and ensure the availability of up-to-date teaching materials; (iv) better
equipped teaching facilities through the provision of teaching equipment,
library books and periodicals; (v) improved links with industry and com-
merce through expanded training of working managers and short-term attach-
ments of faculty in enterprises; and (vi) a better understanding of
managerial and other institutional constraints facing enterprises and
proposals to alleviate them. The project is designed so that it gives
fully-integrated support to the management education and training system,
i.e. support for the training of lower, middle and higher level managers,
in both pre-service and in-service modes. The main thrust towards
qualitative improvement (items (i) - (v) above) is also designed so that
components are self-reinforcing, resulting in better qualified faculty
teaching in a more stimulating, better endowed and more relevant environ-
nent.
7.02    The project would also increase the physical capacity of the
management education and training institutions to help meet the critical
shortfalls of properly-trained managerial manpower in Bangladesh. By
1986, IBA would have the capacity to produce about 240 MBAs and provide
in-service training for about 900 higher level managers annually, compared
with present capacity of 80 and 300 respectively. Similarly, BMDC would
be able to provide in-service training to over 2300 mid-level and super-
visory personnel annually compared with about 1400 in 1980. Quantitative
expansion combined with qualitative improvement would raise the standards
of management in Bangladesh, thereby alleviating a basic development
constraint and, resulting, in the longer term, in considerable benefits to
the economy.
Risks
7.03    The data base and conceptual framework supporting the proposed
project is sound and the basic strategy and approaches are considered to
be appropriate for overcoming the major short and long-term problems of
management education and training programs in Bangladesh. While the
design and conceptual risks are minimal, the project does nevertheless
face some conceivable implementation risks that could delay project
development and reduce its effectiveness, some of which are summarized
below.



-47-
7.04    The major risk relating to the proposed project concerns the
capacity of local institutions to implement it, both in regard to achiev-
ing the physical targets as well as those of quality improvement. This is
bound to be a concern since implementation of IDA in Bangladesh projects
in all sectors has had a history of problems. Nevertheless, it is felt
that this project can be implemented with an acceptable degree of
efficiency. The project would be implemented by well-established institu-
tions and does not require the creation of a new project organization
which is often the cause of major delays in implementation. The par-
ticipating institutions have the full range of skills for implementing the
project and for the most part are autonomous bodies which have more
administrative flexibility than typical government departments. Further-
more, the project coordinating bodies - the Project Steering Committee and
UGC (for IBA and the Commerce Faculties) - would provide adequate overall
coordination of project implementation.
7.05    In designing the proposals for implementation, special care has
been taken to ensure that the proposed staff development and program
improvement activities would be implemented under close professional
guidance and supervision. The collaborative arrangements between
Bangladeshi institutions and those from overseas (paras 4.08 and 6.02)
would help to ensure that the process of infusion and adaptation of
advanced knowledge and skills would be effective and long-lasting and this
would thus minimize the risks of not being able to fully achieve and
sustain the qualitative improvements in management education and training
programs proposed under the project.
7.06    Experience has shown that in previous education and training
projects in Bangladesh, implementation performance has improved from poor
in earlier projects to satisfactory in the more recent ones. Earlier
proiect suffered from physical calamities such as war and flooding but
also from COB's cumbersome procedures, lack of understanding of IDA's
procedures and local currency shortages. Specific efforts were made in
the Third Education Project and continued in the Fourth project to improve
local implementation, train local officials in IDA procedures and ensure
that local counterpart funds are guaranteed in the Annual Development
Program. The proposed project would benefit from all these improvements
and, in addition, possible delays would be minimized by the advanced state
of project preparation. Civil works are relatively simple and require
only standard designs; preliminary lists of equipment and books have
already been approved and an early start to the recruitment and training
and technical assistance programs would further reduce the possibility of
delay.
7.07    The impact of the project could be reduced by (i) the non-return
of overseas trained faculty to their respective institutions, or loss of
effectiveness due to lack of a supportive academic environment, (ii) the
industrial enterprises not taking advantages of the institutional training



-48-
programs and (iii) industrial enterprises, particularly the ones in the
public sector, not being able to retain the services of trained and
qualified management personnel (particularly graduates). Past data shows
that foreign trained scholars do return to work in their parent institu-
tions, and GOB has an effective system to ensure this (para 4.05). To
provide the returning scholars with a supportive academic environment, the
project would improve the overall pedagogy by providing better library
facilities, instructional equipment, research funds and technical assis-
tance for curriculum development. The constraints imposed by inadequately
trained manpower is widely recognized by the public sector enterprises and
is reflected in the fact that IBA training programs are oversubscribed,
and registration in the programs at BMDC, Commerce Faculty at Dacca and
other training institutions have been continually rising. The project, by
making the education and training programs more job-related and increasing
liaision with the enterprises (through research, consultancy, industrial
attachment of faculty, etc.), in effect would increase the demand for
institutional training programs.
7.08    The inclusion of the Faculties of Commerce poses one possible
risk. Student unrest in Bangladesh universities and colleges has been
widespread in recent times and there remains the possibility that the
situation could deteriorate to the extent that implementation of the
component could be impeded. Nevertheless, the appraisal mission was
impressed by the keen desire on the part of the students and teachers in
the Faculties of Commerce to improve the standard of their performances.
They seem to be more serious in pursuit of qualifications and careers than
many of their peers (introduction of semester system, industrial inter-
nship, post-experience training, (para 2.21) reinforce this assessment).
IBA, which is located in the heart of the Arts Faculty campus, has
remained largely unaffected by the turmoil and disruption prevailing in
its vicinity, a fact which encouraged the appraisal mission to infer that
a well-trained and motivated faculty, decent physical and educational
facilities and a rigorous academic program would help, to some extent, to
further insulate the Commerce Faculties from the general mood of unrest
and allow successful implementation of the proposed development program.



-49-
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01    Tne following assurances were obtained from GOB during nego-
tiations:
(a) statt houses and dormitory facilities constructed at the Dacca
University under the proposed project would be tor the
exclusive use ot the IBA faculty, students and trainees (para
4.09);
(b) by January 31 of each calendar year of the project period, the
Dacca, Chittagong and Rajshahi University Commerce Faculties
would prepare and submit to IDA for its comments details about
tnat year's industrial attachment program (para 4.10);
(c) all agencies involved with project implementation would
prepare and maintain separate accounts in accordance with
sound and recognized accounting practices to reflect correctly
the project's financial position. Such accounts would be
audited annually by independent auditors, acceptable to IDA.
The audited accounts, together with the auditor's report,
would be sent to IDA within six months of the close of the
relevant financial year. The auditor's report would include,
inter alia, a statement verifying that funds disbursed by IDA
had been used tor their intended purposes (para 5.17);
(d) UGC would establish and maintain until completion of the
project a Curriculum Review Committee (CRC) with membership,
powers and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association.
Such a committee would be headed by the Chairman of the UGC or
his nominee, not below the rank and status of a senior profes-
sors and wouid complete its review and furnish to IDA its
tindings and recommendations by December 31, 1983 and UGC
would review with IDA the Committee's recommendations and
implementation details (para 6.05);
(e) IBA, BMDC and Commerce Faculties would prepare and turnish
to IDA for its comments, not later than March 31 of each year
of the project period, a detailed taculty research and case
development program to be undertaken during that year (paras
6.06 and 6.08).
8.02    The tollowing would be the conditions of effectiveness:
(a) a tormal contract(s) with an overseas institution(s) with
qualitications, experience and TOR satistactory to IDA and who
would assist UGC and BMDC in the implementation of the respec-
tive components, had been executed (paras 4.08 and 6.02);



-50-
(b) project proformas covering all components of the project and
as agreed at during negotiations, had been approved (para
5.09);
(c) UGC had appointed a Project Coordinator who would be a senior
person, not below the rank and status of a university protes-
sor, with qualifications, experience and terms of employment
satistactory to IDA (para 6.03); and
(d) the Project Steering Committee (PSC) with membership, powers
and functions satistactory to IDA had been established (para
6.01).
8.03    With the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA credit ot US$ 7.8 M.



-51-
ANNEX 1
BANGLADESH
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Grade Classification Used in the Study for
Classification of Management Personnel in
Public Sector Industrial Enterprises
G R A D E                TITLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES
I               Director, General Manager, Chief Executive
responsible for a larger enterprise or
Director with functional responsibility in
a large enterprise.
II               Department Manager or Mill Manager responsible
for a department or mill within the enterprise
or the management of a medium size enterprise.
III             Assistant Manager and functional specialist
not responsible for an operational unit or
department but who has management responsibilities
within the unit or department or "in-charge" of
a small enterprise.
IV              Foremen and supervisors who have management
responsibilities for a section within the
operational unit, department or mill.
V               Supervisor of Sardar with line responsibility
within a section.



-52-
ANNEX 2
BANGLADESH
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Summary of Activities of the IBA
M.B.A.            M.B.A.          Executive Dev. Programs
Day Program    Evening Program        and Short Courses
a/       b/     a/           b/          c/         d/
1966/67           27
1967/68           43       17
1968/69           45       22
1969/70          115      .36      84
1970/71           89        -      38
1971/72            -       62       -
1972/73          118       64      53
1973/74           93       50      47           10
1974/75           48       53      27            -
1975/76           82       25      80            6           10        .434
1976/77           72       33      55           13           13         502
1977/78          124       33      66           10           10         338
i;78/79           82       38      42           28           18         536
1'9/80           111       61      56           19           16         350
1980/81          124       35
a/ Enrolled
b/ Graduated
c/ No. of Courses
d/ Participants
Note:  This table does not show the intake of the first batch of 5 M
Phil. and Ph.D. students in 1979/80, nor does it reflect the
level of research, publication and consulting activities.



-53-
ANNEX 3
BANGLADESH
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Unit Area and Unit Cost Estimates
Median Values of Bankwide
This Project      Similar Projects (78-81)1/
Academic and
Communal Faculties                     IBA               Universities
Construction area per
student place (sq. ft.)              186                     232
Building cost per sq. ft.                 2/
of gross areas (US$)                 26 -                     42
Construction cost per                     3/
student place (US$)               2267 -                   6257
Furniture cost per
student place (US$)                 216                      544
Equipment cost per
student place (US$)                 383                     9741
Total Cost per student
place (US$)                         2866                   15830
Boarding Facilities
Construction area per                                              4/
boarding place (sq. ft.)             160                     222 -
Building cost per sq. ft. of
gross area (US$)                      18                      47
Construction cost per                                              4/
boarding place (US$)               2902                   13605 -
Furniture cost per
boarding place (US$)                 441                     822



-54-
Total cost per boarding
place (US$)                        3343                    1447
Staff Housing
Area per staff housing                                            4/
unit (sq. ft.)                     1200                   14427 -
Building cost per sq. ft.
of gross area (US$)                   16                     48
Total cost per staff
house (US$)                       18200                   70590
1/ Source: CPS, August 1981 (Unit Area and Unit Cost Estimates in Education
Projects).
2/ Addition of another storey on existing building (including costs of
renovation of existing facilities).
3/ Based on additional student enrollment due to new construction.
4/ High value as no median value available.



-55-
ANNEX 4
Table 1
BANGLADtESH
EUSIHNESS NANACEMENT EDIJEATI ON AND TRAINING .S F:O,JCT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(TaI.a Millior,i       (USE, Nillisr)      ,.o
Fc--i- -  ---------- -------------------         i       f TGtt1
Local Foreisn Total  Local Forei,n Tcta! E>:c h3n2 E;sse C:.:-.ts
A. INSTITUIE Or BUSINESS A1D!INISTRA7InON          28.3    42.4   70.7   1.3         1.9   3.2       60.0        47-0
8. COMMEFRCE FACULTIES
DACCA                                            2I0    13.9   16.0   0.1         0.6   0.7      C7.2         10.6
CHITTAGONG                                       1.6      9.0   10.6   0.1        0,4   0.5   .  5.1           7.1
RUJSHAHi                                         1.7      3.8   10.4   0.1       0.4   0.5       824.1        6.?
Silb-Tctal COMMERCE FACULTIEC                        5.3    31.7   37.0   0.2        1.4   1.7      85."I7       24.6
C#.  ANOLAI'FeN  M ANIEME14T LEV'CPMENT CENTER       6.1    21.3   27.4   0.3        1.0   1 .2     77,7         1°.2
D'. UNI!ERFSITY GrRANITS COMMISSION                  1.1    14.4   15.5   0,0        0.7   0.7      93.0         101.3
Total LASELINE CO'TS                                  40.8   109.8  150.6   1.9        5.0   6.i       72.9       100.0
Ph-'siczI Conti5encies                              3.4     7.5   10.3   0.2        0.3   0.5      69.0          7.2
Price Continrencies                               19.6    2°9.6   49.2   0.9        1.3      . 2   60.1        32.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   £3.8   146.9  210.6   2a.9       6.7   9.6       69.7       139.9
October 21'  1982  19:25



-56-                                 AUNNEX  4
Table 2
ANGLHiESH
8USINESS MANA4GEE;T E1r.ijCAi'ir0i  AND T;iATINItjNf FROJECT
Sum:i¶-rv Account h  F oiect Comp;onent
(TOi.-ka M;illion)
PANGLADESH                         Physical
INSTITUTE OF                                MANACEDIENT  UNIYERSI TY          Ccntinrenc i4-
PUsI.'NESS          COMHNERCCE FKCULTIES  rE'iELCF,ENT   C OANT5            -------------
ADMjNISTF.ATIIji DiACC  CHITTKIONOG R,'-''A'.iI   CENTE R  MIlSO1O1  Totsl    %    Aconur,t
I. INIYEST'-'t:T COSTS
CIVIL W,ORKS                                 37.7      -           -         -             -           -   3717  10.0      3.0
iEICLES r  Nl EL  ' Tf^ E                     3.3   1.0          1.0       1.0          3.2          0.5   10.0  10.0       1.C
FURNITUFE                                     3.0   0.4          0.5       0.4           1.1           -    5.5  '1.0      0.5
.IBRAnR  P°O,,'S                              5.8   2.0          1.7       1.6          2.2            -   13.2  10I0       1.3
FEL L L   U F' S                             16.1  I0.9          6.1       6.1          7.2            -   46.3   5.0       2.3
TEC,kiNChAL 'kSSISTANCE                         -      -           -                       -        13.0   13.9   5.0       0.7
LOCiAL CHSULANT-0.8    0.B   5.0                                                                                            0.0
YISITIN3G F'rOFFrS3CR --                               --`S                              9.2           -    9.2   5.0       0.5
Total IW'ESTMENT COSTS                          65.8  14.2          9.4       9.1          22.8        15.2  136.6   7.4    10.1
Fihsical C.nrti-isencies                      5.2   O.9          0.6       0.6           1.5         0.8   10.1   0.0       0.0
Price Ccritir,sencies                        23.6   4.7          3.0       3.0           5.9         4.3   44.4   7.3       3.2
Total INCLUDING CONTINE;ENCIES                  95.2  1°.8         13.0      12,7          30.1        ''0.2  191.2   7.0    13.4
Taxes                                         9.1   0.1          0.1       0.1           0.2           -    9.5   9.1       0,9I,L
Foreisn Exchen5e                             56.6  18.9         12.1      11.8         27.8         19.1  146.2   6.4       9.3
II. RECUIRRENT COSTS
RESEARFCH SUPPORT                            0.8   1.0          0.6       0.6          0.6            -    3.6   5.0       0.2
INCREMENTAL STAFF                            4.2      -           -         -          4.0          0.3    8.4   5.0       0,.4
INTERNSH UIP/SEM INAR                          -   0.7          0.6       0.7             -           -    2.0   5,0       0,1
Total RECURRENT COSiTS                           4.,9   1.7         1.2       1.3           4.6         0.3   14.0   5,0    0,.7
Physicz! Cor;itr,eer s                       0.2   0.1          0.1       0.1          0.2          0.0    0.7   0.0       0,0
Price Corntingenicies                         1.7   0.6          0.4       0.4           1.6         0.1    4.8   4.9       0.2
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                    6.9   2.4          1.6       1.7           6.4         0.4   19.5   4.8       0.9
Foreigri Exchanse                               -   0.2          0.2       0.2             -           -    0.6   4.,8      0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                             70.7  16.0         10.6       10.4         27.4        15.5  150.6   7.2    10.2
Physical Ccntinsericies                        6.0   1.0          0.7       0.7           1.7         0.8   10.8   0.0       0.0
Price Ccntinenrcies                           25.4   5.3          3.4       3.4           7.5         4.3   49.2   7.0       3.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                             102.1  22.2         14,7      14.5          36.6        20.6  210.6   6.2    14.3
Taxes                                          9.1   0.1          0.1       0.1           0.2           -    9.5   9,1        0.9
Foreign Exchange                              56,6  19.1         12.3      12.0         27.8         19.1  146.9   6.4       9.4
October 21  1982  19'25



-57-
ANNEX 4
BANGLADESH                                 Table  3
BUSINESS MAi!Al'ENE:T FTUCAT ION AND TPAINING PROJECT
S¶,ar< Ac:oufit bIV  Time
Base
Costs +
Price
Cor,t. on
Base Costs                   Base
(T;ka M,illion)               Costs   Foreign Exchange
Unit Cost  No. ot ------------------------------------   (US$   ----------------
Unit (Tak2 '000) Units  82t83 83/84 84/85 85/36 O6WN7 Total  Nillion)                      A i^ount
I TN.'ESTMENT COSTS
CIVIL WOiRVS                                             -   4,3   9.0   9.8  11.5   3.1   37.7             2.4      14.3    16.7
!!E,L,'T - iC AND E  UIFNENT                             -   0.6   2.?   2.7   2,1    1.8   10.0            0.6      91.7      9.2
F'J  I T; i RE                                           -   0.3   1.7   2.0   1,2   r,3    5,5             0,4      35.6      2.0
I8. Y BOI3OKS                                           -   1.7   3.0   3.0   2.9   2.6   1 3,            0.9 _1,7    1 .1
EL' OW5lS                                24-335.5    164   6,6  12.2  11.7  10,4   5.5    46.3              2.6      ?c/9.    46,3
.. T MA;L ASSISTANCE                          220      6     2LO ..6   2,9    .8   2.9   2.8   13,0        0.8     100.0    13.9
D'     r,CUJ TMLT TSJ.q5                       15      '"     .    0.2   0.''2  0.2   0,2       0.9       0.0        0.0      0.0
,:TeTy-,, FRFE3     i                    .22-220       42   2.6   2.6   1.3   1.3   1.3    9,2            0 5     100.0       9.2
c Ti  I  . .-3T E} . l,CO-.TS                                 19.9  31.3?  4  33,5  32.3  17.5  136.6         . v0,0   109,3
-.1   1,c.ntin;-fpncies                                -   1,3   2 5   2.6   2,5   1,3   10.1               -         J735   7.5
* so~   invn e+nAes -ze                                       1.4   7i!  11.2  14.9   9.5   44.4              -      66.4     _9,5
7,t-. T; nt I,' TNC, 0TINT'.ErPkCIjES                           21. 6  44,2  47.73  4.7  20.3  191.2           9.1      76.5   146.2
T2;-^s  -    +.8   2 1   2.    3.1   0.9    9.5              M 0hI0 0.
F, 'e   ; E;^hvr;n¢e                           -  17.9  34.2  35.1  35. 6  23,4  146.2              -      0.0       0.0
T T   Li  ' UT COL-TS
S -  U? PO.T                            3-6  17040   0.7   0,7   0,7   0.7   0 0           . '. 2 i            0.0      0,0
. -;-.-!^ '!T A,L ST,AFF                     4 5    lv9   AM      I .5   1,9   2.1   2.1      9.4        0.5       0.0      0.0
I;-  - 2N-iIF/SE8!ti?>iUAR               1.2-1.5  lsl9$ ' 0    2  0. 4   0.4   0.5   0.5    2,4.0         0.1      23.7       0,5
,'  t !'NT COSTS                                          1.7   2.7   3i,0  3.3   3.3   14.0            0,8       3,4       0.5
z  ;-zl Covnt>iini2-iies                       -   0.1   0,1l  0,2   0.2   0.2    0,7               -       1.4      0,0
n                                           -r   e.      5    0 5  O .   9   1,4 t !.Q  48      8        3.  0    0.1
-;_,Z;21 I NCLI.,UDIN'O CONT,INIENCIES                           1.?   3i3   4,1 4I.S   5.4   1?,5             0.9       3.3      0.6
Fc raig  E>ch aZs                                       -   0f    0, 01   0. II 1   0.    9+20.    0.6       -       0.0      0, 0
ltvl F1:SELINE COSTS                                             20.6  37.0  36,5 -35.6  20.9  150.6            9.9      72.?   109,8
kL>ca l'>>l rContlnirncies                                -   1,4   2,7   2,7   2,7   1,4   10.9              -     69.0       7.5
Frice Clontir;nncies                                      -   1.5   7,9  1i21  16.3  11,4   49.2               -      A0,1    29,6
Totzl F'."J;3ECT COSTS                                           23.5 z7.5  511.4  54.5  33.7  210,6           S°9       69.7   146.9
== = ====_ = = == == = == = = == = == = == = == == = == = == == = == = = == =
Ta;xes                                                    -   0.8   2.1   2.6   3,1   0.9    9.5               -       0,0      0.0
For2i!rn E,ha-h2nae                                       -  18.0  34.3  35,2i  35B,  23.6  14i.9              -       0.0      0.0
Y-Icto'Cr 212  1992  19:25



-58-                      ANNEX 4
Table 4
BANGLAtiESH
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AhNI' TRAINING PROJECT
Project cutonerit bY Time
(Taka Million)
Total
Base Costs             ----------
_____  __ -------- w---------              ! LlSts
82/83 83/84  4      35/36 2`6/87  Taka  Million)
= == = = = == =Z= = 7= = == = == = = ,.= = = =_= _====
A. INSTITUTE n' P,UET?NESS ADNINISTTPATIOTN          8.6  19.1  ?198  17.2   6.0   70.7          3.2
B. CONVERCE FACCULTIES
DACCA                                             1.2   3.0   3.5   4.8   3.4   16.0          0.7
CHITTAGONE.                                       1.1   2.4   2.4   2.8   1.?   10.6          0.5
R AJSHA AI                                       0,9   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.1   10.4           0.5
Sub-Totel COMMERtE FACULTIES                         3.2   7.7   8.2  10.4   7.5   37.0          1.7
C. B1tANLAESDH N- CENENT DEVELOzP'ENT CENTER         5.8   7.1   5.4   4.3   4.2   27.4           1.2
D. UNIVERSITY SiANTS CiOMMISSION                     3.0   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   15.5          0.7
Total BASELHNE CCSTS                                  20.6  37.0  36.5  35.b  20,9  KO.6            6,0
Phvsik1 Ccl:ntir;,encies                           1.4   2.7   2.7   2.7   1.l4  10 .8         0.5
Frice Clontiri_encie-                               1.5   7.9  12V1  16.3  11.4   49.23
total FP.!ROJECT COSTS                                23.5  47.5  51.4  54,5  33.7  210.6          9.6
Taves                                               0.8   2.1   2.}6   3.1   0.9    95          0. 4
Forei-rn E1chae                                   18.0  34,.3  35i.2  35'-0.8  23,6  146.9     6.7
October 21' 1982  19:25



-59-
ANNEX 4
lANSLADESH                                             Table   5
.U'.L'!NE'S KANA6SEENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Table 101. INSTITUTE OF BUSIIJESS A4MINISTRATION
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
Ouartitv                                       (Taka Million)              Phv.        For.
----------------------------------  Unit Cost  ----------------------------------- Cort. For. Exch. Gross   Suteari
Unit    82/83 83/84 84/65 15/86 86/87 Total (Taka '000) 8:613 83/84 84/85 85/86 6t/87 Total Rate  Exch. Usht. Tax Rate Account
!  EICSTNENT COSTS
FACULTY TRAINING  /a
PH.D. FELLOWSHIPS /b                Stafttear      2      4     5     3      2    16        335.5   0.7   1.3   1.7   1.0   0.7   5.4  0.05        1     1        0       FL
'.R. FELOIUSHIPS /c                 StatNyear      6    12    10      4     -    32        335.5   2.0   4.0   3.4   1.3       -  10.7  0.05      1     1         0      "L
.:b-Toal' FhCULTY TRAINING  /a                                                                        2.7   5.4   5.0   2.3   0.7  16.1
LI. 'BDARY SUPPORT
TEXTBOOKS                                                                                           1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   0.8   5.0   0.1   0.9   0.9           0       Do
r RIUDICALS                                                                                         0.1   0.1   0.1  0.1   0.3   0.8   0.1   0.9   0.9            0       Do
1j--Tntal LIBRARY SUPPORT                                                                              1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.1   5.a
-. !.UIFENT AND FURNITURE
FURNiTURE /d                                                                                          -   0.9   1.3   0.8       -   3.0   0.1   0.4   0.4       0.1       FU
TC:UIPNENT                                                                                            -   0.4   0.4      -      -   0.8   0.1   0.9   0.9         0       ED
Z.IOSPUTER (FOR, TEACHING) /e                                                                         -   1.3   0.9   0.3       -   2.5   0.1   0.9   0-9         0       Ea
.b-T^'.a!EOUlF.EVT AND FURNITURE                                                                        -   2.6   2.6   1.1      -   6.3
' !L 8OP.S  /!
*t *' lIC BUILDINGS                                                                                 2.6   3.5   3.5   3.5   2.1  15.0   0.1   0.4   0-4        0.15       Ci
0.7   3.6   4.5   1.8      -  10.6   0.1   0.4   0.4       0.15      CY
5^a:LTY HOUSING                                                                                    1.0   1.9   1.9   6.3   1.0  12.0   0.1   0.4   0.4        0.15       CU
?.I -ktr-   CIVIL WOFOS  Jf                                                                           4.3   9.0   9.S  11.5   3.1  37.7
T IN)ESTMENT COSTS                                                                                       S.1  18.1  18.6  16.1   4.8  65.8
?SC~-TRSNT COSTS
A. RESEARCH SUPFORT
r     F,r. F5'. ¢'kC5 PF:CJECTS  It    Prciect   10    1O    10    10    10    50              6   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.3  0.05        0     0        0       RS
'LEE ;PR CASES  /.7                   Case       16    28    28    28    50   150              3   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.5  0.05        0     0        0       RS
£j:---tl R-ESEATRCH SUPPGRT                                                                           0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.8
P. i.-40SENTEl STAFF Ai
INZYC"NNTAL STAFF  /j              Staffacar      8    16    20    20    20    84             45   0.4   0.7   0.9   0.9   0.9   3.8  0.05       0      0        0      SAL
INLE!LN h  SU'PORT STAFF  h-                                                                      0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.4  0.05       0      0        0     SAL
TuU-Tot-i INCREMENTAL STAFF  /i                                                                       0.4   0.8  1t.    1.0   1.0   4.2
E:--  4iCURPENT COSTS                                                                                    0.5   0.9   1.1   1.1   1.2   4.9
:*zl BASELINE COSTS                                                                                       8.6  19.1  19.8  17.2   6.0  70.7
hAt USS 15250 Per staffaear
cr- ndidates
- A   r4didates
F or lib,2re, crninar rcoas, acaden:c bjildirns and hostel
* Gre r:i:-r-omto'e and 4G e2cro-cooputers
See tables 11, 12, 13 (Annex 4)
h' TzA. 610c5 ser Prrject
i8t 'aka 5S,O0 .-r Prwect
:  Frsserit steff nt 23
At T3Pe 45vCOO A r sefn fvpar
At 10h.' of inrir|mrit3r faeujltv staff
20er 2i, 1982  19'25



-60-                                       ANNEX 4
Table 6
BANGLADESH
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Table 102. CWI,ERCE FACULTY DEVELOPMENT OF DACCA UNIVERSITY
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs
Ouantita                                          (Taka Million)               Phv.         For.
-----------------------------------  Unit Ccst  ----------------------------------- Cant. For,  Eoch, Gross   Sunan
Unit    82/83 83/84 84/8  85/£6 86/87 Total (Ta':a '000) 82/83 83/84 84/85  S5/D6 86/97 Total Rate  E:ch. Wght. TanP Rate Account
.IIESTIENT COSTS
A. 7ACULFY TRAINING /a
FHt.1,FELLCUiPIF'S (OVERSEASI lb                    Staffsear        1      2     3      2      -      8        335.5   0.3   0.7   1.0   0.7        -   2.7  0.05        1     1         0       FL
PH.D.FCL!O  SHiPS  GPAqLADESH)                      Staffsear        -      -      I     1      2      4      29.333       -     -   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1  0.05          1     1         0       FL
u.R.Al.YEI3LL ^-HIPS (OVERSEAS) /c                  Staffsear        2      4     4      8      6    24        335.5   0.7   1.3   1.3   2.7   2.0   8.1  0.05            1     1         0       FL
Suo-T.t3l FhCULTY TRAINING  /a                                                                                              1.0   2.0   2.4   3.4   2.1  10.9
I. IBiRARY SUPPORT
XTYST°G 2, F:CEF E.NCE 80CMS, AND SUBSCRIPTIDNS                                                                            -   0.4   0.4   0.6   0.6   2.0   0.1   0.9   0,9              0       8D
C.  2O'i?MENT hAND FURN:TURE
ECJUIPOENT /d                                                                                                              -   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.3   1.0   0.1   0.9   0.9              0       EQ
F.RNITURE /e                                                                                                               -   0.1   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.4   0.1   0.4   0.4            0.1       FU
S B-Trot3! cJiTMENT AND FURNITURE                                                                                             -   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.3   1.4
--tl .#.ESTOENT COSTS                                                                                                          1.0   2,7   3.2   4.4   3.0  14.2
RECURF:ENT COSTS
4  :cSEARCH SUPPORT
FS iN: R F.ESEX-C R P BOJECTS  /f                   Project        10    10    10    10    10    50                5   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3  0.05           0     0         0       RS
w     O U R CASES  /I                                Case         50    50    50    50    50   250                3   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.8  0.05          0      0         0      RS
SuU-T;t31 RESE?ACH SUPPORT                                                                                                 0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   1.0
D. !'WJsUSTRTAL INTERNSHIPS  /h                       Staftoonth       -    30    30    45    45   150              1.5      -   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.2  0.05          0     0         0       IS
TRAVEL  rN3 SU3SISTANCE                            Staffaonth       -    30    30    45    45   150             1.2      -   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.2  0.05          0      0         0      IS
TE;ROCUS                                            Set of 4        -    30    30    45    45   150           1.276       -   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.2  0.05   0.9   0.9              0       iS
OF us M4TERIALS
05CC CUR,EB°T SERVICEG                                                                                                     0.0   0.0   RO    0,0   0.0  0.05         0      0         0      IS
SRARIAR1-                                                                                                                 -   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   C.1  0.05          0     0         0       IS
SuJv-Tctai .UnriER SEMIINARS  /i                                                                                             -   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.5
-cal RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                          0.2   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   1.7
tal BASELINE COSTS                                                                                                            1.2   3.0   3.5   4.8   3.4  16.0
At Tska 2.4,003  er steffgear l;calD   arnd U;^ 15,.250 Per stafftear overseas
4 carnd:aten - tuo  aears overse3s and one sear localle
:2 n&AXsMdates
Ei.2:c12cr, Sprew7iters, Photocops tachines, and 5 aicro-cosputers
C- Fr inrarr and ne4,:iT roMr,s
Pt T..ae -,000  er Project
: 4 Tska 3,00(5 ner cass
r2oel and ntksistenc2 allowances st Taka 1,500 Fem stsffsonth (rounded)
Offered to Corn,rce Fraril ls n2nis of affr:Cid.atd   ccnlles, see Table 1.6
..ber 21, 100S2  19:25



ANNEX 4
-61-                                              Table 7
OONOLAI'ESN
PUSINESS MONAOEM.ENT ET'UZAT IN AND TRAINING PROJECT
Table 103. COSMERCE FACULTY DEvELO'MENT, OF CHITTARONG UNIVERSITY
tietailed Cost Table
Base Costs
Quuntits                                           (Taka Million)               Phs.         For.
-----------------------------------  Unit Cost  ----------------------------------- Cont. For.  Exch.  Gross   Suevarv
Unit    82/83 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 Total (TaOa '000) 82/83 83/84 84/S5 85/86 86/87 Total Rate  Exch. U6ht. Ta: Rate Account
INVESTMENT COSTS
, FACIJLTY TRAINING  /a
;.:. F-LLCIJSHiP  O3VERSEAS) /b                   Staffsear        1      2      2      1     -      6        335.5   8.3   0.7   0.7   0.3          -   2.0  0.05       1      1        0       FL
-H.!   E±Y60'WSdIP (SANGLAIESH)                   St;ffvear        -      -      1      1      1     3       28.333       -     -   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1  0.05          1      1         0      FL
M.B.A.-EEL'.4IF (OVJERSEAS) /e                    Sttffgear        1      2      2      4     3    12         335.5   0.3   0.7   0.7   1.3   1.0   4.0  0.05            1      1         0      FL
'h-T ot.-!        TY TRAINING  /a                                                                                         0.7   1.3   1.4   1.7   1.0   6.1
t, !    ', b.Q  ^A ,:'OT 
T-Y? E   7'0E0ENCE DGOCKS ANH! SUTiSCPIFTIONS                                                                          0.2   0.4   0.4   8.4   0.2   1.7   0.1   0.9   0.9                0      r0
*E..'i1 ' T 0'J rWCFL'RNYITURE
ECr;r'LVENtT /d                                                                                                          -   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   1.0   0.1   O.?   0.9                0      ED
z:JP4UTURE /e                                                                                                             -   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.5   0.1   0.4   0.4            8.1       FU
E-kuK- c  EPQ  F_ENT AND FURNITURE                                                                                           -   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   1.6
!-           E Kt,-STir4, COSTS                                                                                              0.?   2.1   2.2   2.6   1.7   9.4
*.C C OZrCSTS
s, CESOOCH 'SUPPORT
r S TETEASVL  FROJECTS  /f                  ProJect        6      6      6      6      6    30             5   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   ?.0    0.2  0.05          0      0         0       RS
'!":,' A'' ChSES  /a                     Case         30    30    30    30    30   150                3   0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.5  0.05           0     0         0       RS
'c' ! 00004 *-H;-SUPPORT                                                                                         0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.6
.  'I c:*': L  IfiTSF.r)SRIPS  /h   /6     Staft:onth       -    24    24    24    24    96               1.5     -   8.0   0.0   0.0 0 Q.    0.1  0.05           0     0         0       1S
R .D SUE.SISThNCE                       Setafftonth    25    25    25    25    25   125                 1.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2  0.05           0      0         0       IS
TFfTP. B0U0Set of 4                                              25    25    25    25    25   125            1.296   0.9   0.0   0.0   0,0   0.8   0.2  0.05   0.9   0.9                 0      IS
crS8C7ICN LnF T MATERIALS
'iT EYOR P.SUPPORT SERVICES                                 0-0   0.8   0.0   0.8   0.0   0.0  0.05                                                                0     0         8       ITS
HONuSP-iA                                                                                                             0.0   0.0   8.0   0.0   0.0   0.1  0.05           0      0        0       IS
9,.-T3t,1l ETI:hEiR SEMINARS  /i                                                                                          0.1   0.1   0.1   0.l   0.1   0.5
EN! COSTS                                                                                                        ?.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   1.2
:-a: . '.SELI5 COSTS                                                                                                          1.1   2.4   2.4   2.8   I.9  10.6
-     la9 , '24,008 Per staffsesr         anolls ard USt 15,250 Fer staffaear overseas
3 ce.-: tes - two years o,;erseas ard ore sear locallY
- 6 zn id Hcats
t ^cd  trr, tSFpe.;rtrsltP    P-ctrocFY marhinest and 5 eiero-eosauters
c-  1s2ars ar,d seuriar mro;s
} ' I 5,0S,00 er Ftojert
At T-' a 7 ,CrO rer case
-:tt::uert kith zn arterprise
r:  -uu i-steore zloiA;;:oes at Taka 1t500 Per staffeor.th (rounded)
*  ems.,E Lu LCror.-    Facilts tr,Se-s of affiliated colleses, see Table 1.6
-'.0.2er  1.?1, 2  19:25



-62-
ANNEX 4
Table 8
PANGLiADCSN
BUSINE'S MANAGEt!T EDUCATION ANlD TRAINING PROJECT
Table 1.04. COMMRF:CE FACULTY DEVELOPMENT OF RAJSHAHI UNIVERSITY
lDetailed Cost Table
Base Costs
Qantitits                                         Taka Million)              Phs.         For.
-----------------------------------  Unit Cost  ----------------------------------- Cont. For. ECxch. Gross   Surrr.
Unit    82/93 83/84 84/85 85/86 E6/87 Ttal (Tsaa '000' K2/83 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 Total Rate  Exch. Wght, Ta: Rate ArCC
:MO!ESTMENT COSTS
4. FACULTY TR41NIHG /a
H.Mi.FELL3U'U1TS (IYERSEAS) /b                     Statfsear       1      2     2      1      -     6        335.5   0,3   0.7   0.7   0.3        -   2.0  0.05       1.    1         0
nh.D.:. uKUS/OPS (BANGLADESH)                      StaffNear       -      -      1     1      1     3           24      -     -   CIO   0.G   0.0   0.1  0.05         0     0         C
.H   .h.FEULCU:i-UfS (OVERSEAS) /c            Staf?sear        1      2     2      4     3    12        335.5   0.3   0.7   0.7   1.3   1.0   4.0  0.05          1      1        0
FICL Ty TRAINING  /a                                                                                             0.7   1.3   1.4   1.7   1.0   6.1
E-   ET-RENCE DOOKS, AND SUBSCRIFTIONS                                                                         -   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   1.6   0.1   0.9   0.9             0
.  I    :l* ;FURN ITURE
nvlP6CNT .rJ                                                                                                        -   0.2   0.2   8.3   0.3   1.0  30.1   0.9   0.9             0
,'000IT.r.  ie0 _/_s_                                                                      _      _                  -   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.4   0.1   0.4   D.4           0.1
- Ei0.:RniNT AND FURNITURE                                                                                      -   0.3   0.3   0.5   0.5   1.5
:-: RO'. S H.IOT ^OSTS                                                                                         0.7   2.0   2.5   2.5   1.9   9.1
.FEE P0/~ SUPPORT
I         --lRE!TCj
r --SrRCH PROJECTS  If                  Project        6      6     6      6      6    30            5   0.0   0.0   v.0   0.0   0.0   0.2  005          0      0         0
-, st S F .- *-,2rr2  /                            Cass        30    30    30    30    30   150               3   0.;   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.5  0.05         0      0        0
';-i        SU cPPORT                                                                                           (.I   0.1     .    0.    0.0   0.16
, -5-:t'"Tj':.   -     .        .......T,,r.#CFS  . /b   /i  Staffcantn    30    30    30    30    30   150  1.5   0.0   0.0   0.0 G.G  0,0   3.2  0.05  0  0     0
NMS  /j
IFn,EZ   SUESISTANCE                             Staffmonth    25    25    25    25    25   125               1.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2  0.05         0      0        0
Set of 4      25    25    25    35    25   125          1.29.    0.0   0,0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2  0.Q5   O.Q   0.9             0
CY rNTERIALS
V GT SEeR ICCS                                                                                                 0.0   0.-  0   0. 0 N.O v  0.0   0.0  0.05      0     O 
HC1 F:;0,:-,                                                      -      -     -      -     -      -  .             0.Q   0.0   0.0  02.0   0.0   0.1  0.05         0      0         0
Suh-Txxa  EL/ET: SEHl!lBRS  /i                                                                                         0.0   0.    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.5
. ;. ':R  Or:E>T 225                                                                                           2.2  o0.2   0.3   0.2   0.3   1.3
IE 03ELINE flSTT                                                                                                         0.9   2.3   2.3   2.R   2.1  10.4
-Trt~a 24-9C r    te-  taf'"ssor lcaclO  arn U0S  15,25C Fer staffsear cverseas
3 c -;r, n.O   t   Year;   rsasea nd ,cne toea  lo.; IY
' -oi7r't'rs7 Fohxtcxc        o:ir:a. es, and r5 rUns-noraFxters
14o+rzr}~ :,r zsnXn3r romss
*  e/ T2v;. 5.CGJ00 rr proiect
-  -;  ti     > r-r *' tb '. -n nte:v-rise
:. C -V  ..  r ;at TaP    e 1500 oar  tof^crth Prcu:dei)
Ler Table Isj   for deooi1
tu--be-  .:-- 100S2  17:25



-63-
ANNEX 4
Table 9
BANGLALIESH
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Tacle 105. BANGLADESH MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT CENTER
Dietailed Cast Table
Unit                Base Costs
QuantitY                 Cost              (Taka Million)               Phi.         For.
----------------------------------- iTaka ----------------------------------- Cont. Far  EEch,  Gross   Susa
Unit    82/e3 83/84 84185 85/86 86/87 Total '000) 822!3 03!84 84/8  88186 9682S  TGtOl Rat   E ch. Wsht. 72s Rate Account
INVEET!1ENT COSTS
4  'R5U  TY  RAINING  /a
F 1ST SRMrAT  FELLOUSOiPS  lb                               Stattf,nth      4      6      4      3     1    It   275   1.1   1.7   1.1   0.8   0.3   5.0  0,05            1      1         0       FL
°IF0e4 FELLOWSHIPS                                          Stattmonth       4     4      4      4     4    .0   110   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   2.2  0,05            1      1         0       Ft.
R b-T::?1 FACHTV TRAINING  la                                                                                                1,5   2.1   1.5   1.3   0.7   7.2
N5 FRCFFESSORS  /c                                    Stafttanth      12    12      6      6      6    42   220   2.6   2.6   1.3   1.3   1.3   9.2  0.05            1     1         0       VP
IUR RFAc SI. ''3RT  /d
TRITUS) S R'FE'NCS BOOtS ETC.                                                                                            0.4   0.6   0.6   0.3   0.3   2.2   0.1   0.9   0.9               0       S0
L`?'LY- SUPPORT  /d                                                                                              8.4   0.6   0.6   0.3   0.3   2.2
i E ;!Fn 41 Y:2 rUL'NITUIRE /e
;-IITPJ-\S -' I                                                                    -      -      -     -          0.3   0.5   0,7   0.3   0.S   3.2   0.1   0.9   0.9               0       ED
zI 7EN-                                                                           --                                    0.3   0.5   0.3        -     -   1.1   0,1       0      0       0.1       FL'
ZU>A; Et ZT OND PFY4I TUE  /s                                                                                    0.8   1.8   1.0   0.8  0o.    4.3
:-   -: 'S- EN TCR!S                                                                                                  5.3   t.3   4.4   3.6   3.1  22.8
215E& '  RE.3CH FPR:JECTS                            Project         6     6      6      6      6    30      5   0.8   0.0  02, 0    .0   0,0   0.2  0.05         0      0         0       RS
.%:Zflzn  ACS                                                Case        30    30    30    30    30   150          3   0.7   7.1   0.1   0..   0.1   0.5  0.C0          0      0         0      RS
5    C' E        £8-,,, r  SUPPORT                                                                                         O.1   0.1   0,1   0.1  '7.    0.6
.:/K ;30v>. SITFF SALARIES
_I         :Ttff'TF  FOR  ATACO, CHITTr;ESN5S 1 KHULNA /t  Staffyear     7    14    17    21    21    SO    45   0.3   0.6   0.0   O.?   9,Q   3.6  8.05               0      0         0     SAL
T      _ I"    D0UT STAFF                                      No              -     -      -      -                    0.    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.4  0.05          0      0         0     SaL
*-  r    P -3E~EI%4L STWFF SALARIES                                                                                       0.3   ;      0      1.    1.0   4.0
- -    C   -':E5T CISTS                                                                                                        0.5   i.8   1.0   1.2   1.2   4.6
,,,  B     NE OiSTS .02   7.1   5.4   4.8   4.2  27,4
-1  230S 170 siFEr sta!fsear for POst gradiate 2ni USSO 5,000  er stoff eanth for short-ters training
: c;rc.:rctes
- BS  .s:o ri   : trffnonth
r,..  . >r:t,cnag and KhuIna Carters
.2  52--  cc::itc;rs,  v?rheaJd 'ojectoas, miacrouses I furnitureo and 10  dicro-coaPuters
F.       surtbg.iIr (1980-81) of 42
:,:er 21c 1982  19:25



H ESS 'A* E- E '-U! 'TIGN AND TRAINIING PROJECT
Taile 106. UNIIpRSITY CRTl 1'Rt:TS COHIISS'CI
52!.ailei (Cost Tatle
isr } ts       :B;SE Costs
Ousrtit                  Cost              (Tai a  lil!.ion)            FPh.         For.
----------------------------------- (Taka ----------------------------------- Cont. For.  Exoh.  Gross   Sumaarg
Unit    82/8t^3 03/Q4 84/8i5 85/86 86/.87 Total '000) 82/83 83/84 84/Si 95/86 86/87 Total Rate  Exch. WUht. Ta: Rate Accourt
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CO'NSULTANT SE^RVICES
EXPATRIATE SERVICES    Staffro,nth    12    12    12    12    12    60   220   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6  13.2  0.05                 1      1         0       TA
LOCAL                    Staffmnoth    10    10    10    10    10    50    15   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.8  0.05                0      0         0      LCD
Sub-Totel CONSULTANT SERVICES                                                             2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8   2,8  14.0
B, EUTJ,IRmENT                                                                           Q0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.5   0.1   0.9   0.9              0       £0           °
C. INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL                      -      -      -     -      -     -             -   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.7  0.05          1     1         0       TA
Total ITNVEST,MENT COSTS                                                                     2.9   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1  15.2
'I, CRECU:EST CQSTS
A. IN!C'. EMEN TAL STAFF
pROjErT rFFICER         Staffvear        1     1      1      1     1      5    45   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2  0,05           0      0         0      SAL
SUn'PORT STAFi                           -     -      -      -      -     -          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1  0.05          0      0         0      SAL
Sub-Total INCPREMENTAL STAFF                                                             0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.3
Totel RECURRENT COSTS                                                                        0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.3                                                   (  4X
===== ===== ===== ===== ===== =====                                                   C)
Totzl PASELINE COSTS                                                                          3.0   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1  15.5
October 21Y 1982  19:25



-65-
ANNEX 4
Table 11
BANGLAD ESH
BTJSINESS MNAGMIENT EDrJCATION  & TRAINING PROJECT
E,ansion of Institute of Business Administration, Dacca University
Academic Building: Civil 'tibrks, Summarised Cost Estimates
Floor           Civil Works        Sq. ft.        Sqft per         Total. (TK)
1            Renovation          18,000           100           1,800,000
2            Renovation          14,500           100           1,450,000
3            Renovation          14,500           100           1,450,000
Lounge/
Cafeteria         Construction         5,000            300 /a        1,500,000
4            Construction        14,500            3uu /a       4,350,000
Library (5th
& computer floor) Construction       14,500            300 /a       4,350,0nO
room
TOTAL (Taka)                                                        14,900,00"
La  Construction Cost @ TK 300 per Sq. ft. covers the cost of
professional services (design, renovation, supervision) &
site development.



-66-            ANNEX 4
Table 12
BANGLADESH
BUSINESS MANAGM-IEVT  UJCATICN & TRAINING PROJECT
Exansion of Instituate of Business Administration, Dacca Universitv
Men's Hostel: Civil TWorks, Summarised Cost Estimates
Item                                    Total Sq. ft.
150 Dormitory places @ 80 Sq. ft. (net)                  12,000
Dining Hall: 60' x 30'                                    1,800
Kitchen, Stores @. 50% of the dining area                   900
,Corron facilities t 80' x 30'                            2,400
17,100
Balance (Circulation, walk, ancillary) @ 40%              6,840
Total Sq. ft.    23,940
Building Cost:
23,940 Sq. ft. x TK 450 per Sq. ft.La              Taka 10,773,000
a   3The rate of TK 450 per sq. ft. covers also the cost of
site development and professional services (design, supervision).



-67-
ANNEX 4
Table 13
BANGLJADESH
BUSINESS MANAGEM4ENT MUCATION & TRAINING PROJECT
Exoansion of Institute of Business Administration, Dacca University
Faculty Housina: Civil Works, Summarised Cost Estimates
24 Housing Units at 1,300 sq. ft. per, unit /a              31,200 sq. ft.
Building Cost @ Taka 375 per sq. ft. /b                Taka 11,700,000
/a Includes housing for dormitory staff.
/b Based on University Engineers' estimate of construction cost.
Site development and professional services  (design, supervision)
are not provided for separately. It is assumed that the Sq. ft.
rate used should cover them.



-68-
ANNEX 4
Table 14
BANGLADESH
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Forecast of Expenditure and Disbursement
Expenditures                  Disbursements
---------------------(US$ M)-------------------
IDA Fiscal Year & Semester        Semester   Cumulative    Semester   Cumulative*
1983
II (Jan. 83 - June 83)               .50          .50           .1            .1(1Z)
1984
I (July 83 - Dec. 83)                .60        1.10            .2            .3(4%)
II (Jan. 84 - June 84)               .90        2.00            .5            .8(10%)
1985
I (July 84 - Dec. 84)              1.30          3.30           .8           1.6(21%)
II (Jan. 85 - June 85)             1.60         4.90           1.0           2.6(33%)
1986
I (July 85 - Dec. 85)              1.60         6.50           1.0           3.6(46%)
II (Jan. 86 - June 86)             1.80         8.3            1.5           5.1(65%)
1987
I (July 86 - Dec. 86)                .70        9.0            1.2           6.3(81%)
II (Jan. 87 - June 87)               .60        9.6            1.0           7.3(94%)
1988
I (July 87 - Dec. 87)               -           9.6             .5           7.8(100%)
Estimated Dates
Effectiveness: June 1982
Completion:      June 1987
Credit Closing: Dec. 1987
* % of total IDA credit shown in parenthesis.



-69-
ANNEX 5
BANGLADESH
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A. General Reports and Studies Relating to Business Management Training
A.1 Report on the Training Needs in Industries, National Committee
on Training Needs in Industries, Government of Bangladesh (Dacca,
August 1978).
A.2 A Summary of Management Training Needs: Post-Experience Management
Training and Educational Background of Maragers in Public Sector
Industrial Enterprises in Bangladesh (Two Volumes), 3MDC (September
1977).
A.3 Human Resource Development and Employment Generation, S. Ramalingam,
ILO/UNDP, (January 1981).
A.4 JUTE Sector Study: Organization, Finance, Management and Labor
Aspects (Volume V), PA Management Consultants, (July 1918)..
A.5 Second Five Year Plan of Bangladesh (Chapters XIII, XVI, XVIII),
Planning Commission, Government of Bangladesh, (May 1980).
A.6 Reports on (a) Management Training in the Bangladesh ILO/UNDP
National Management Development Program; (b) Recommendations of
Follow-up Visits to Members of First and Second Foundation Courses,
Professor V.L. Thomas, UNDP/ILO/BMDC, (February 1980).
A.7 Training Program on Project Management: An Evaluative Study:
UREKA (Bangladesh), (November 1980).
A.8 Employee-Centered Supervision and Productivity in the Jute Industry,
M. Habidullah, 3ureau of Business Research, University of Dacca,
(December 1980).
A.9 Education and Training Sector Memorandum, IBRD Report 2889-BD.



-70-
A.10  Bangladesh:  Education Sector Memorandum, IBRD Report 3548-BD,
(June 1981).
B. Reports and Studies Relating to this Project
B.1 Draft-Development Plan - Institute of Business Administration
Administration (1978-79/1980-90), University of Dacca.
B.2 Assistance to State-owned Corporations on Efficiency and Productivity
Improvement, Project Document, UNDP, (February 1981).
B.3  Scheme for Development of the Faculty of Commerce at Dacca, Chittagong
and Rajshahi Universities (Project Proformas), (January 1981).
B.4  Summary of Current Activities and Proposed Development Program,
Faculty of Commerce, Dacca University.
B.5 Report of Project Identification Mission, (August 1980).
B.6 Comments by Director of IBA on the Aide-Memoire of Project Identification
Mission, (October 29, 1980).
B.7 Draft ILU Proposals for Assistance to Corporations, (December 1980).
C. Working Papers and Tables
C.1 Expansion of IBA
C.2 Drawings of Proposed IBA Buildings



