Document of                         IY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3435-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 7.3 MILLION (EQUIVALENT TO US$7.8 MA
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION
AND TRAINING PROJECT
December 27, 1982
Trhis document has a restiricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a basket of
reference currencies, with the Pound Sterling serving as intervention cur-
rency. On August 24, 1982, the exchange rate was set at Tk 38.95 buying and
Tk 39.05 selling per Pound Sterling. Depending on exchange rate movements
between Sterling and the US Dollar, the Taka/Dollar cross rate is subject to
change.  In recent months this rate has fluctuated between Tk 23-24 per US
dollar. Throughout this report the rates shown below have been used:
US$           = Tk 22.0
Tk 1          = US$ 0.04545
Tk 1 million = US$ 45,455
LIST OF TERMS, ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BIDS     -    Bangladesh Institute for Development Studies
BMDC     -    Bangladesh Management Development Center
B.Com.   -    Bachelor of Commerce Degree
CRC      -    Curriculum Review Committee
GOB      -    Government of Bangladesh
IBA      -    Institute of Business Administration
ILO      -    International Labor Organization
M.B.A.   -    Master of Business Administration Degree
M.Com.   -    Master of Commerce Degree
PSC      -    Project Steering Committee
PIC      -    Project Implementation Cell
SFYP     -    Second Five Year Plan
UGC      -    University Grants Commission
UNDP     -    United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Amount:           SDR 7.3 million (US$7.8 million equivalent).
Terms:           Standard.
Project          The project would assist the Government in improving the
Description:   country's business management capability by developing
a cadre of professionally trained and qualified management
personnel through improvements in the existing graduate,
post-graduate and in-service business management education
and training programs at the Institute of Business Adminis-
tration, the Faculties of Commerce at the Dacca, Chittagong
and Rajshahi Universities, and the Bangladesh Management
Development Center. Project assistance to these institu-
tions would be for: (a) upgrading the qualifications and
training of their respective faculty members through over-
seas fellowships, internships and seminars; (b) recruiting
additional faculty members for the Institute of Business
Administration and the Bangladesh Management Development
Center; (c) improving the overall pedagogy, curricula,
course content, teaching methods and materials in order
to make them more practically oriented and job-related;
(d) supplying equipment (including a teaching computer for
the IBA), furniture, textbooks, journals and other instruc-
tional materials; (f) strengthening the faculty research
and case development program; and (g) retaining expert
services for assisting in the implementation of the staff
and curriculum development programs.
Risks:           The major risk attached to the proposed project concerns
the capacity of local institutions to implement it. This
4                        risk, however, is reduced because the implementing insti-
tutions are well-established bodies which have a wide range
of skills and manpower to implement the proposals. Further-
more, the local institutions will be supported by substan-
tial technical assistance in the form of an overseas training
institution which would provide technical and professional
guidance and supervision in implementing all educational
aspects of the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Cost:
Local    Foreign      Total
-------US$ million--------
Civil works                    0.9        0.8         1.7
Library materials               -         0.6         0.6
Fellowships, internships,
& seminars                   0.1        2.1        2.2
Research support               0.2         -          0.2
Technical assistance            -         1.1         1.1
Incremental staff              0.4         -         0.4
Furniture, vehicles
and equipment                0.2       0.5         0.7
Base costs                     1.8        5.1         6.9
Physical contingency           0.2        0.3        0.5
Price contingency              0.9        1.3        2.2
Total estimated
project cost                 2.9       6.7         9.6 /a
/a  Includes duties and taxes of $0.4 million equivalent.
Financing
Plan:                                 Local      Foreign      Total
--------…US$ million--------
IDA                    1.1         6.7           7.8
Government             1.8          -            1.8
Total               2.9         6.7           9.6
Estimated
Disbursement:                        FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88
Annual                0.1    0.7    1.8    2.5    2.2    0.5
Cumulative            0.1    0.8    2.6    5.1    7.3    7.8
Economic Rate
of Return:                Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:            Bangladesh; Business Management Education and
Training Project, Report No.3783-BD, dated
December 29, 1982.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 7.3 MILLION (EQUIVALENT TO US$7.8 MILLION)
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 7.3 million
(the equivalent of US$7.8 million), on standard IDA terms, to help finance a
Business Management Education and Training Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Recent Economic Developments
and Selected Development Issues," (Report No. 3768-BD, dated March 3, 1982) has
been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.  Its
economy was disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged by the struggle
for independence. The country was afflicted by poor harvests and devastating
floods in the early 1970s. Agriculture and manufacturing production fell
drastically and only recovered to pre-independence levels in the mid 1970s.
Inflation, declining real wages, rapid population growth, labor unrest and
political instability added to the difficulties. In these early years,
Bangladesh's policy makers were by necessity largely preoccupied with matters
of relief and rehabilitation and the need to shape a national government out of
a provincial administration. The First Five-Year Plan (FY74-78) had to be
scrapped and replaced by a scaled-down and refocussed three-year "Hardcore
Programme" (FY76-78) in response to the enormity of the country's difficulties.
4.      Economic progress and increased political stability in the second half
of the past decade provided planners the opportunity to turn their attention
from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of development. Between
FY75 and FY80, GDP increased by about 5.8% p.a. despite several setbacks in
agricultural production. Output in manufacturing rose by about 6.3% annually
between FY75 and FY80, most of this growth taking place outside the jute
industry. Although shortfalls in domestic foodgrain supplies and increases in
international petroleum prices led to a deterioration in the balance of pay-
ments in FY80, the concluding years of the decade witnessed a number of
encouraging developments and positive policy measures to attain longer-term
development goals. These included a strengthening of budgetary policies,
improvements in agricultural and food distribution policies and steps to
promote a more active role by the private sector in developing the economy.



-2-
Recent Economic Developments
5.      The economic consolidation in the second half of the past decade has
been followed by a period of economic difficulties. Bangladesh experienced
serious budgetary and balance of payments problems in FY81 which have continued
into FY82 and FY83. The external and domestic resource constraints led to some
decline in investment, in real terms, and some loss of momentum in the develop-
ment effort. The domestic food situation due to poor crops has also posed
considerable problemas. Although GDP at market prices increased by 6% in FY81
(as favorable weather and stepped-up provision of agricultural inputs helped to
increase foodgrain production to a record 14.8 million tons), growth of the
economy became negligible in FY82 and FY83 due to poor crops, lagging rural
incomes and consumer demand and the decline in investment.
6.      The increasing economic difficulties experienced in the last few years
is indicative of major constraints to sustained economic development in
Bangladesh in the near term. These are (a) an increasingly severe balance of
payments problem; (b) an extremely tight public finance situation; and (c) a
food production and management problem.
7.      Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive struc-
tural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid. Export earnings are
currently less than 30% of the import bill and over 50% of these limited export
earnings is derived from raw jute and jute goods. Although export earnings
doubled over the second half of the past decade due to a significant
strengthening of export prices, and remittances from abroad increased rapidly,
the current account deficit over the past decade averaged over 10% of GNP
annually, financed by external aid inflows, provided mainly on concessional
terms by external donors. Over tne past two to three years, however,
Banaladesh has been adversely affected by (a) a severe deterioration in its
terms of trade and (b) a simultaneous decline in external aid inflows. A sharp
decline in export prices of raw jute and jute goods and of major
non-traditional exports (notably leather and fish products), combined with a
14% increase in average import prices (partly reflecting significantly higher
petroleum prices), led to a 22% deterioration in Bangladesh's terms of trade in
FY81. While import prices remained relatively stable in FY82, export prices
declined by a further 16% due to continued stagnation of demand for raw jute
and jute goods, and the terms of trade deteriorated further by 17% in FY82. At
the same time external aid inflows, which rose steadily until FY80, stagnated
or declined; aid disbursements in FY82 were only 2% higher than in FY79 in real
terms, and in FY81 were 7% lower than FY79 levels. During FY81 the Government
attempted to cope with this reduction in the availability of external resources
by resorting to short-term commercial borrowing, short-term deposits from and
currency swaps with friendly countries, some run-down of reserves and assis-
tance from the IMF under an Extended Financing Facility (EFF) arrangement
concluded in December 1980. However, the EFF arrangement was suspended in July
1981, as the Government's budgetary problems led to a large bank-financed
budget deficit and to the violation of credit ceilings agreed with the IMF.
The.foreign exchange constraint necessitated a 14% reduction in imports, in
real terms, in FY82 below the FY80 level. Nevertheless further short-term
borrowing (the outstanding amount was about US$260 million in January 1982 and
about US$130 million in June 1982), and a run-down of Bangladesh's meager



-3-
foreign exchange reserves to about US$100 million (equivalent to about two
weeks' imports) were necessary to finance the reduced level of imports.
8.      The external payments outlook for FY83 is one of continued difficul-
ties. A substantial recovery in the terms of trade or increase in aid flows
is not in sight. Although export volume may increase by about 5% and workers'
remittances may reach a record level of US$475 million (equivalent to 70% of
commodity exports), imports will have to be cut back again below the reduced
FY82 level, since there is little scope for further short-term borrowing and
run-down of reserves.
9.      The deterioration in the trade and aid climate had a major adverse
impact on public finances during FY81 and FY82. Government's receipts of local
counterpart funds--a principal source of taka resources--were reduced, as were
its receipts from import duties and sales taxes, which account for nearly 60%
of total tax revenues. These budgetary problems were exacerbated by weak
financial planning and inadequate domestic adjustments in the face of generally
reduced availability of resources. The Government's development programs were
predicated on the basis of overly optimistic assumptions regarding resource
availabilities; and the poor financial performance of public enterprises, due
to low levels of efficiency and delays in increasing their sales prices added a
further drain on the budget. A budget deficit of Tk 5 billion or about 2.5% of
GNI? emerged in FY81 even though the Annual Development Program (ADP) was cut-
back by 12% in the second half of the fiscal year. In FY82, the cutbacks in
imports noted earlier sharply reduced government revenues; and this caused
serious difficulties in implementing the ADP which was again initially set at
am'bitiously high levels. Although the Taka component of the ADP was cutback by
15% in the third quarter of FY82, it was possible to avoid a deficit in the
overall government budget only because a sharp run-down in government's food
stocks as a result of poor domestic crops helped to produce a substantial cash
surplus on the food account.
10.     Although considerable progress has been made in the past ten years in
increasing the availability of irrigation and other inputs and improving
agricultural policies, foodgrain production and supply in Bangladesh remains
heavily dependent on the vagaries of the weather. Prolonged drought since the
summer of 1981 adversely affected the FY82 and FY83 rice crops. The shortfall
in foodgrain production in FY82 (0.7 million tons or 5% below FY81 levels) led
to high food prices in FY82, low government procurements, increased demand for
foodgrain distributed through the ration system and a substantial run-down of
public sector foodgrain stocks to about 600,000 tons by end-June 1982, far
below the levels considered to be sufficient for food security purposes. In
order to replenish stocks the Government made substantial commercial imports,
thereby imposing further strain on the balance of payments.
11.     The Government endeavored to cope with the intensifying problems facing
the economy by placing tight restrictions on imports, public sector expendi-
tures and bank credit, reducing various subsidies, and allowing the Taka to
depreciate. In FY82 the Taka was depreciated by about 10% in relation to a
basket of currencies to which it is pegged and by about 20% in relation to the



-4-
US dollar.1l/ However, the rate of domestic inflation, spurred on by sharp
increases in foodgrain prices in mid FY82, the adjustments in the exchange rate
and rapid expansion of domestic liquidity in late FY81 accelerated and the
consumer price index increased by 15% over the 12 month period ending June
1982.
12.     Faced with continuing prospects of unfavorable terms of trade and
stagnating resource availabilities, the Government, in the FY83 budget (in July
1982), introduced a wide range of policy measures designed to adjust the
economy to the country's serious resource constraints. Projected development
expenditures for FY83 were reduced by nearly 20% in line with resource
availabilities, while the increase in recurrent expenditures is being limited
to 14%, only slightly above the forecast inflation level. The Government also
introduced new tax measures expected to yield Tk 1.17 billion (about 0.5% of
GDP) in FY83. In addition, a number of substantial subsidy and pricing adjust-
ments aimed at reducing consumption and protecting investments were made.
Ration prices of wheat and rice were increased by 11% and 8%, respectively and
fertilizer prices were increased by 14% on average. The Government also recog-
nized the need to improve the financial performance of public sector enter-
prises and utilities; and product prices and rates were raised substantially in
the case of petroleum products (41%), electricity tariffs (40%) and natural gas
(13%). These measures are expected to channel resources from private consump-
tion to public investment and, together with a cash surplus on the food account
noted earlier, will help improve the overall budgetary position, and restore a
greater measure of financial stability.
External Debt
13.     Debt service payments on medium and long term debt totalled US$94
million in FY80 and US$92 million in FY81. Bangladesh's debt service ratio,
about 12.9% in FY80 following some debt relief measures undertaken by various
donors, remained at this level in FY81. The debt service ratio might exceed
20% by the mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies are pursued and
aid is provided on concessional terms. Bangladesh's total outstanding and
disbursed external public debt amounted to just under US$3.6 billion as of
June 30, 1981 with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting for 30% of
the total. In FY81, the Bank Group accounted for 3% of Bangladesh's total debt
service payments: because assistance is now entirely in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
14.     The Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP), issued in draft form in May 1980,
accords high priority to four major goals: (i) achievement of self-sufficiency
in foodgrains by FY85, with domestic foodgrain production targeted to increase
to 20 million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of the population growth rate with a
view to bringing down the net reproduction rate to unity by 1990;
(iii) progress towards mass literacy through free universal primary education;
1/  Change from end-June 1981 to early June 1982.



-5-
and (iv) emphasis on energy development, particularly through accelerated
exploitation of known reserves of natural gas.
15.     The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is con-
siderable. Surface and groundwater resources permit a substantial expansion of
irrigation, which in turn would permit increased fertilizer use and shifts to
high yielding varieties of rice. The Government has formulated, with assis-
tance from IDA, a Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP) which provides
an investment portfolio geared towards the attainment of the SFYP target of 20
million tons of foodgrains.  This target is now being scaled down in view of
the country's resource constraints. The achievement of even this revised
target will depend considerably on the allocation of sufficient resources to
provide needed inputs to farmers and to permit the private sector to play an
expanded role in the provision and servicing of modern agricultural implements
and inputs. Other necessary requirements are adequate levels of foreign aid to
finance imported inputs, improved extension services and training, and
appropriate producer incentives.
16.     Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population growth
rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus far, espe-
cially with regard to birth control efforts which have generally suffered from
poor implementation and have had only limited success. Recently, however,
birth control activities within the Government have been coordinated, while
training programs for field staff have been revised and are now, for the first
time, considered adequate. GOB is now preparing, with bank assistance, a
medium-term implementation plan for the population sector.
17.     The third major objective of the SFYP is the attainment of general
literacy. The Government recognizes that achievement of the goal will take
longer than five years, but it has set itself the ambitious target of introduc-
ing universal primary education and enrolling 90% of all children of
primary-school age by 1985. IDA is assisting GOB in preparing a medium- term
plan for the education sector.
18.     A Plan aimed at effecting significant departures from past trends will
place severe strains on financial resources and managerial skills. A major
challenge which the Government is now facing is to translate the objectives of
the SFYP into an operational implementation program on an annual basis. The
Government is now revising the draft SFYP, but more work and considerable
discipline are needed to identify core programs and projects and protect them
to the extent possible in a situation of resource scarcity. A critical factor
will also be the extent to which project implementation capabilities are
improved. Although immediate improvements can be made, it is unlikely that the
efforts of public agencies alone would be adequate to achieve the targeted
breakthrough. The Government recognizes that in certain key areas greater
reliance will have to be placed on the private sector. It also believes that,
to a certain extent, activities such as education and rural development should
be carried out in a decentralized fashion, with greater emphasis on local
initiative and grass-roots participation.
19.     Over the past few years, a series of studies undertaken by IDA, GOB and
o:her organizations has concluded that existing trade and industrial policies



-6-
have distortionary effects on resource allocations within the industrial sec-
tor. The Government is now preparing a program for trade and industrial policy
reform which is expected to lead to a medium-term program of actions to be
pursued across a broad front, including modifications in the tariff structure,
the pattern of domestic indirect taxation, investment incentives, export
policies and the mechanism for industrial promotion and planning.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH 1/
20.     Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of eleven
credits, amounting to US$147.11 million, made originally to Pakistan before
1971; in addition, a consolidation loan of US$54.9 million and credit of
US$31.04 million to cover liabilities arising from projects located in
Bangladesh and completed prior to independence was approved in 1974. As of
September 30, 1982, 62 new credits have been approved, totalling US$2,064.67
million; of these, US$765 million have been for import credits (ten imports
program credits and two fertilizer imports credits). Annex II contains a
summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as of September 30, 1982,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh
became a member of the IFC, and three investments (for a shipbuilding company,
an investment promotion company and a leather factory) have been approved.
21.     The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture (20
of the projects approved as of September 30, 1982, and two fertilizer imports
credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the Government's
priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on projects that
provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer transport,
irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and storage facilities. In
addition to agricultural projects, emphasis is also being placed upon com-
plementary infrastructural projects in sectors which facilitate agricultural
development or which reduce bottlenecks constraining the economy's overall
performance. In the power sector, for example, IDA is assisting in rural
electrification and elimination of shortages of generation capacity and dis-
tribution facilities which have been a major impediment to utilization of
existing industrial capacity.
22.     Industry has been the main beneficiary of the ten imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the economy,
program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA operations in
Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two fertilizer
production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project, several DFC and
small-scale industry projects and three IFC loans.
1/ Part II of this report is substantially the same as Part II of the Presi-
dent's Report for the Second Deep Tubewells Project (Report No. P-3368-BD),
dated July 22, 1982.



-7-
23.     The enormity of Bangladesh's population program makes this an extremely
high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive capacity. IDA has
made two credits available in support of GOB's population program, which is now
making some progress. Improved education and availability of trained manpower
are also crucial, and lending in this field has emphasized agricultural, tech-
nical and vocational training, and primary education.  In addition, the
proposed project would help improve the country's business management
capability.
24.     Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded satisfac-
torily. Project disbursements have lagged behind expectations, owing largely
to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts, employment of
consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays were serious
constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, overcentralized
bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. IDA and GOB have
given increased attention to regular monitoring and supervision in order to
identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is providing assistance both
under specific projects and under technical assistance credits to improve
planning, project preparation and implementation capabili.ies.
25.     In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position and
savings/investment gap, IDA credits should continue to cover all foreign
exchange costs and a portion of local currency expenditures particularly in
certain priority areas such as energy, education, agriculture and rural
development, including small-scale and cottage industries.
26.     Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a dialogue
between the Bank Group and the Government on economic policy and development
strategy. It is also designed to enhance the coordination of external assis-
tance within the framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities have
conacentrated on food policy, irrigation strategy, industrial investment
strategy, energy development, and increased domestic resource mobilization.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Sector Overview
27.     Productivity and performance of Bangladesh's labor force and its
managerial personnel are severely limited by the constraints and inadequacies
of the country's education and training system. Although recently there has
been increased emphasis on technical education programs, the basic structure
of the formal education system in Bangladesh has remained almost unchanged for
the last thirty years. Most sector development efforts in the past were con-
cerned with quantitative expansion of the traditional system and overlooked
reforms and changes needed to bring about qualitative improvements and to make
the system more relevant and responsive to the country's socio-economic and
developmental needs. The education system is characterized by imbalances in
the mix of skills produced, poor quality of training resulting from a lack of
well trained teachers, inadequate instructional materials and inappropriate



-8-
instructional techniques, and underfinancing. Only about 14% of the recurrent
and 5% of the development budget and 1% of GDP are spent on educational
programs. l/
28.     All Bangladesh's development plans (the First Five Year Plan (1973-78),
the Two Year Plan (1978-80) and the Second Five Year Plan (SFYP), (1980-85)
recognized the major shortcomings of the system and included efforts to over-
come them. Sector objectives of the SFYP are to (a) rationalize the education
and training system through effecting major curriculum changes, (b) broaden the
opportunities for primary and non-formal education, (c) strengthen the voca-
tional and technical courses at the secondary level, (d) consolidate and
improve existing programs, discourage expansion of liberal arts education and
emphasize professional education at the college and university levels, and
(e) bring about necessary reforms in education administration.
Business Management Education and Training Sub-sector
29.     Absence of effective management, both in the productive and services
sectors, is pervasive and has been acknowledged to be one of the most critical
factors inhibiting the development activities of Bangladesh. In the business
and industrial sectors, where low productivity, poor resource utilization, low
financial returns on investment and excess plant capacities, are serious
problems, the manifestations of poor management have become most pronounced.
The fundamental causes of poor management are considered to be (a) lack of a
cadre of professionally competent managerial personnel, (b) a shallow manage-
ment structure, i.e., high senior/middle level management personnel to subor-
dinate workers ratio, (c) ineffective institutional programs for providing
in-service training to existing managers and for preparing entrants into the
management stream and (d) institutional and organizational rigidities, par-
ticularly in the public industrial sector (which constitutes about 80% of the
business sector), that inhibit good management and changes for improvement.
30.     Historically, industrial and business enterprises in Bangladesh were
owned and managed mostly by non-Bengalees. During the war of independence and
the subsequent separation from Pakistan, most of the non-Bengalee owners as
well as senior and mid-level managers left the country. The resulting void was
filled by recruitment or through promotion of personnel that often did not have
the necessary experience or qualifications. The situation was further
aggravated as the country's training institutions could not cater to the train-
ing needs of the new generation of managers. It is, therefore, not surprising
that a survey of management personnel in the public industrial enterprises
(during 1976-77) found that (a) only about 14% of the 17,000 management person-
nel had gone through some in-service management training, (b) the quality,
content and intensity of the training left much to be desired, and (c) only 10%
of managerial personnel had some management related professional education
(i.e., graduate and post-graduate degrees in business and commerce subjects,
1/ Compared with Sri Lanka and India which spend about 3.0% of GDP on educa-
tion and an average of 2.8% of GDP for all Asia.



-9-
diploma in personnel management, etc.). Consequently, about 90% of all pre-
viously trained managers would need intensive refresher training to update
their management knowledge and skills.
31.     Based on projected growth in the industrial sector and on the need for
deepening the management structure, the industrial sector alone (both public
and private sectors) would require about 14,000 additional senior and mid-level
management personnel by 1990.  It is fundamental to the long term qualitative
improvement of the management cadre that a majority of new managers receive a
sound education in general business management as well as a grounding in the
functional and skill areas of finance, marketing, accounting, and production
management and that appropriate short courses are available for regularly
upgrading the skills of managers in post.
Sub-sector Institutions and Programs
32.     Prior to the early sixties, business management education was not
considered a legitimate and rewarding area of academic pursuit. Likewise, the
need for systematic and properly designed management training programs was not
recognized. Business management training was limited to a few vocational
training centers and some narrow-based departmental training programs. Crea-
tion of the Bangladesh Management Development Center (BMDC) in 1961, and of the
Institute of Business Administration (IBA) at the Dacca University during the
mid-sixties, and subsequently the commerce faculties at the three major univer-
sities, brought some change in the above situation. Bangladesh now has an
institutional base, both for business management education at the graduate and
post-graduate levels and for post-experience training, which, given proper
support, has the potential to bring about substantial improvements in the
current management scene.
33.     Institute of Business Administration (IBA):  Located within the campus
of the Dacca University, IBA is the only institute in the field of
post-graduate management education and senior and middle-level post-experience
training. IBA offers a two-year full time and three-year part time (evening)
course leading to M.B.A. degrees and M. Phil. and Doctoral programs in busi-
ness administration. Its Masters program is designed to prepare specifically
selected students for professional careers in management in business and the
social sectors. The M. Phil. and Ph.D. programs, started during 1979-80, were
introduced with a view to meeting the needs of those who wish to pursue careers
as management teachers and researchers. In the last ten years IBA has produced
475 MBAs, most of whom have found employment within Bangladesh with nearly 60%
of them taking up employment in the public sector financial/industrial estab-
lishments. In the SFYP, GOB has expressed its intent and commitment to pursue
a "progressive management development policy" and personnel policies "so geared
as to enable the public sector corporations to attract and maintain talented
people through assurance of satisfactory career prospects." The government has
also reiterated its intent to make public sector corporations commercially
viable and encourage increased privatization. Hence, the past strong demand
for MBAs, both in the private and public sectors, is likely to continue in the
near future and may even get more intense. Executive Development Programs were
introduced in 1975 in order to provide in-service training for practising
business and industrial executives. The program consists of short courses,



-10-
seminars, workshops and executive sessions, covering general management sub-
jects, functional areas of management (i.e., marketing, finance, accounting,
etc.) and special areas of current interest. Demand for participation in these
courses is high but the Institute does not have the staff and physical
facilities to enroll all qualified applicants. IBA has a small, but well
trained, faculty of 23 members, all but three of whom have foreign degrees (6
Ph.D.s and 14 M.B.A.s). Given adequate resources, IBA has the potential to
become a center of excellence for broad-based management education, research,
training and consultancy services.
34.     The Faculties of Commerce:  Nearly 35% of existing managers with
degrees are commerce degree holders.  The Universities of Dacca, Chittagong
and Rajshahi have Commerce Faculties offering undergraduate and post-graduate
degrees in commerce (B. Com. and H. Com.).  Undergraduate instruction in "tradi-
tional commerce" subjects (i.e., accounting, business law, organization, etc.)
is also offered by the affiliated colleges of these universities, under
academic supervision and guidance of the parent University. All three univer-
sities offer degree programs in management and marketing in addition to
accounting and finance. Thus, the commerce faculties, which are the major
sources of graduates in the functional areas of management, are also the sole
sources of graduates in general management at the first degree level. Despite
some changes during recent years, the faculty orientation and training, cur-
riculum, teaching methods and materials used are still largely "traditional".
As a result, most employers consider the majority of graduates to be "bookish,"
and inadequately prepared for supervisory/managerial responsibilities. There-
fore, despite the general shortage of persons with management related educa-
tion, many commerce graduates have difficulty in getting appropriate employ-
ment.
35.     Bangladesh Management Development Center (BMDC) is the only specialized
institution providing in-service management training for lower and mid-level
management personnel. Currently, there are 42 faculty members, six of whom
have foreign degrees and 12 of whom have diplomas. Although some of BMDC's
courses relate to general accounting, marketing and finance subjects, its
primary focus has been and continues to be the training of junior, mid-level
and supervisory staff of industrial enterprises in the various specialized
areas of production management, industrial relations and personnel management,
labor administration, preventive maintenance, quality control and management
principles and techniques for supervisory personnel. It also offers a 9-month
diploma course in personnel management.
36.     Corporation and Enterprise Level Training Institutes:  Some public and
private sector industries have established their own training institutes.
Training in these institutes complements that given at BMDC, IBA or the com-
merce faculties and provides in-service training in those areas specific to the
operation of the institution. In this, they draw heavily on the organization
and expert assistance of faculty members of IBA, the Faculties of Commerce and
BMDC.
37.     Private Sector Institutions:  The Institutes of Cost Management and
Chartered Accountants offer courses leading to professional membership of the
Institutes, but have no permanent members of the faculty; instruction is



-11-
offered by practising accountants and, occasionally, by staff of IBA and
Commerce Faculties operating on a part-time basis. A private consulting firm
("Rapport") offers IBA/BMDC type of on job training seminars, mostly with the
assistance of IBA/BKDC staff. The Federation of Chambers of Commerce and the
Employers' Association occasionally organize short (usually 1-2 days) seminars
for business executives.
Issues, Constraints and Developmental Needs
38.     The universities and specialized management training institutes have
yet to develop well balanced programs in practical management. Most lack
adequa.tely trained staff as well as equipment and instructional materials.
Over 80% of commerce faculty staff have only local qualifications; only 14% of
BMDC staff have advanced degrees. In the aggregate, of 214 management
educators and trainers in these institutions, only 26% have advanced degrees.
IBA's existing facilities and overall teaching environment are unsatisfactory
and need to be improved to realize the full potential of its well-qualified
staff, The Institute has no computer facilities and other essential equipment.
Notwithstanding IBA having a well-qualified faculty, there is also a need for
academic strengthening in areas such as computer science, operations research,
sociology/psychology, cost and chartered accountancy, and in the relatively
new but important areas of utilities management, international business and
management in the social sectors.  While IBA has a rigorous curriculum and
course structure, there is scope for improvement by increasing the relevance
of instruction to the needs of Bangladesh's environment. Under the proposed
project the overall program of the Institute would be reviewed to ensure the
optimal utilization of resources by achieving a proper mix of the research,
teaching, consulting and administrative activities of the faculty members. With
only 20% of the Commerce Faculty members having advanced degrees, mainly in
traditional commerce subjects, the universities are ill-prepared to provide
modern business management education. The materials used and methods of teach-
ing (primarily classroom lectures) are not oriented to rigorous analytical
application of concepts and techniques for resolution of practical management
problems. The faculty members have minimal opportunities for increasing their
insight into real life management problems. Finally, improvements need to be
made in the current level of operations at BMDC. To become more effective,
course content needs to be more practically oriented and designed to meet the
needs of participants, most of whom have more practical experience in manage-
ment 1:han the majority of the instructors. The faculty would also benefit from
training in management techniques and increased exposure to practical aspects
of management issues at the enterprise level. In addition, none of the above
instiitutions have strong programs for case writing, carrying out case studies
and undertaking case research, which are essential elements of any effective
management education and training system.
39.     Government Policies and Plans:  The Government of Bangladesh (GOB)
recognizes that lack of a cadre of trained managers is a serious constraint
upon development of both the public and private sectors. The SFYP has recom-
mended that management development programs should be developed, with a view to
creating a professional cadre of management personnel required to meet the
long-term expansion needs of the industrial and commercial sectors. In support
of the above objective, SFYP has proposed that: (a) existing facilities for



-12-
training in industrial/business management should be expanded; (b) facilities
for formal academic programs in management and business education as well as
for training of managerial personnel at the university level should be
enhanced; (c) in-plant training within industries/enterprises, with appropriate
support from and liaison with specialized management education and training
institutions, should be fostered; and (d) management research at the train-
ing-cu-m-research institutions (e.g., BMDC, IBA, Bangladesh Institute for
Development Studies) and university departments teaching management related
subjects should be strengthened.
Bank Role and Lending Strategy
40.     Previous Bank Group Assistance to Management Training.  The Bank has
reviewed in detail the dimensions of management constraints and concluded that,
despite the complexities surrounding the problem, the basic ingredients for
promoting effective management improvement programs do exist in the country.
Past IDA assistance in regard to management education and training has so far
been limited. To date four IDA credits totalling about US$98 million 1/ have
been made to the education and training sector in Bangladesh. One of them
(Credit 912-BD) provides technical assistance for training 1,500 first-line
supervisors in vocational and some managerial skills, development of in-plant
training and overseas training of sector corporations' training officers. The
Credit for the First Education Project (Credit 407-BD), implementation of which
suffered a 2-1/2 year delay due to dislocation caused by war and natural
calamities, cumbersome bureaucratic procedures, local currency shortages and
lack of experience on the part of local officials in respect of implementation
of IDA projects, closed in December 1981 and a project completion report is
under preparation. At this time most project objectives except completion of
some non-academic buildings at the Agricultural University had been achieved.
In designing subsequent projects, steps were taken to reduce implementation
problems faced by the first project and this did improve project implementa-
tion. Under Credit 621-BD, which is in its last year of implementation, 85% of
civil works and 95% of procurement have been completed and the training of
trainers is underway with consultants' assistance. The third and fourth
projects, Credits 912-BD and 1054-BD, respectively, which are in their early
years of implementation, had shown generally satisfactory implementation until
recently when implementation deteriorated somewhat, particularly in the case of
912-BD, arising partly from technical and partly from managerial problems.
However, these are temporary difficulties which are likely to be overcome and
project implementation returned to satisfactory levels in the near future.
41.     IDA Lending Strategy.  The Bank Group's overall strategy for the educa-
tion and training sector in Bangladesh is to support, in line with GOB
priorities, basic education activities to improve the level of literacy, as
well as lower level vocational and technical training and specialized training
1/ Agricultural and Technical Education (407-BD - US$21 million); Agricultural
and Rural Training (621-BD - US$12 million); Vocational Training (912-BD -
US$25 million); Primary Education (1054-BD - US$40 million).



-13-
in the training subsectors such as business management and public administra-
tion.l /
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.      The proposed project was prepared by GOB/IDA with the help of consult-
ants and appraised by an IDA mission in March 1981.2/ A staff appraisal report
(Report No. 3783-BD, dated December 29, 1982) is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex
III. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in October, 1982. The Govern-
ment of Bangladesh was represented by a team led by Professor M. Ahmad, Direc-
tor, IBA.
Project Objectives and Description
43.     The proposed project would seek to assist GOB in effecting qualitative
and quantitative improvements in the country's business management capability.
SpeciLfically, the proposed project would seek to:
(a) improve the quality, content and relevance of existing graduate
and post-graduate level business management education and post-
experience business management training programs;
(b) increase the overall supply of graduate, post-graduate and
trained business management personnel;
(c) promote linkage and interaction between management educators,
researchers and business enterprises; and
(d) foster development of business management literature and
teaching materials of relevancy to Bangladesh business needs.
Detailed Features
44.     Assistance to the Institute of Business Administration.  The proposed
project would aim at expanding the output of graduates (M.B.A.s) and management
trainees as well as improving the quality, coverage and effectiveness of those
programs. The IBA component would comprise: (a) faculty development: faculty
would be increased by an additional 20 members, and 48 man-years of overseas
fellowships (5 Ph.D.s and 16 M.B.A.s) would be provided for advanced degrees in
Business Management/Management Science; (b) technical assistance: three
man-years of visiting professorships would be provided to assist IBA in review-
ing ithe curriculum, instructional methods and materials, and resolving the
1/  LBRD Report No. 3548-BD.
2/  The project at the time included the Primary Educati on and IBA components.
it was later decided to proceed with Primary Education (Credit IV No.
L054-BD) and prepare a separate Business Management Education and Training
Project.



-14-
problems of limited intake capacity and high drop out rate; (c) research and
case development: funds would be provided for initiating and completing 40
research projects and 150 new case studies relating to the problems of
industrial/business management; (d) library development: funds would be
provided for procuring textbooks, reference books, journals and periodicals and
for short-term overseas training of the librarian; (e) equipment: the project
would provide funds to procure essential equipment such as typewriters,
photocopy machines, overhead projectors, desk calculators, etc. A small teach-
ing computer with the necessary hardware configuration in programming languages
and software would also be procured and installed to facilitate instruction in
programming languages and system design. A microbus with a seating capacity of
16 persons would be provided to facilitate field trips; (f) civil works: funds
would be provided for renovating the existing IBA building and constructing an
additional two floors; constructing and furnishing a hostel for 125 students
and 25 management trainees, and 20 residential flats for faculty.
45.     Development of the Faculties of Commerce at the Dacca, Chittagong and
Rajshahi Universities. Project assistance would be geared towards making their
education and training programs more job related and practical. The project
would consolidate, strengthen and upgrade the qualifications and experience of
existing faculty. The faculties of commerce component would comprise:
(a) advanced training: 78 man-years of overseas fellowships for advanced
training of faculty members in modern management subjects would be provided;
(b) short-term industrial attachment: to increase exposure to the practical
problems of management, the project would provide funds for faculty members to
spend about eight weeks during the summer vacation at selected industrial/
commercial enterprises in Bangladesh; (c) curriculum development: funds would
be provided for employing visiting professors to assist the three faculties in
reviewing their curricula, course otontents and teaching methods and materials
and to recommend changes for making the B. Com. and M. Com. programs more
job-related and responsive to the needs of the potential employers;
(d) research and case development: funds would be provided for 50 research
projects and 250 case development studies by the Dacca University commerce
faculty and 30 research projects and 150 case development studies by each of
the faculties at Chittagong and Rajshahi; (e) books, periodicals, equipment and
furniture: funds would be provided for the procurement of reference and text-
books and for additional furniture for the libraries and seminar rooms and for
equipment for the statistical laboratories including five micro-computers for
each of the faculties and audio-visual aids; (f) summer seminars: the proposed
project would provide funds to organize a series of summer seminars for the
teachers of commerce subjects from the colleges associated with the three
Universities.
46.     Development of Bangl-desh Management Development Center.  The proposed
project would assist BMDC in (i) expanding the otutput of trainees from the
current level of 1,400 per year to about 2,300 per year and the output of its
one-year diploma coursa from 33 to 95 per year by 1986; (ii) improving the
quality of instruction, instructional materials and content and scope of the
curriculum; (iii) strengthening its embryonic programs for training of managers
in the non-formal (small scale) sector; and (iv) increasing faculty participa-
tion in research, consultancy and case development. Specifically the BMDC
component would comprise: (a) staff development: funds would be provided to



-15-
recruit another 23 faculty members. Eighteen years of overseas fellowships
(two year Master's program for nine staff members) would be provided to upgrade
the qualification of the existing faculty members and new entrants, and 20
man-months for short-term advanced training (non-degree) for the graduate and
post-graduate staff. Staff training would be geared towards developing faculty
specialization and expertise in specific skills areas such as production
management, inventory control, materials management, preventive maintenance,
etc. and in areas like management training for small scale enterprises in the
non-formal areas and entrepreneurship development; (b) curriculum development:
42 man-months of expatriate/local consultant services would be provided to
assist BMDC in reviewing its curriculum and course content with a view to
consolidation and rationalization of existing programs and designing/developing
new ones, and for program development at the two new sub-centers at Khulna and
Chittagong; (c) furniture and equipment: funds would be provided for addi-
tional furniture for student hostels, classrooms and libraries and for purchas-
ing vehicles, equipment and training aids; (d) library development: the
project would finance the purchase of reference and textbooks for the libraries
at the BMDC (Dacca) and at the Chittagong and Khulna sub-centers; (e) research
and case development: funds would be provided to expand BMDC research and case
development activities.
47.     Technical and Implementation Assistance:  The project would provide
a total of about 9.2 man-years of consultant services (5 manyears of foreign
at US$120,000 per man-year, including overhead costs of the technical assis-
tance institution (see below), and 4.2 man-years of local at US$720 per
man-month, covering the full cost of salaries, allowances, travel and
administrative overhead) to assist GOB in the planning, implementation and
monitoring of the staff development programs and the proposed program for
curriculum review and development of teaching materials and methods at the IBA,
the Commerce Faculties and the BMDC. The services would be secured through a
contract with an overseas academic or management training institution satisfac-
tory to IDA (Section 3.07 of the draft Credit Agreement). The overseas
institution would be expected to perform a critical role in providing the
necessary technical and professional support to local institutions in
implementing the project and in ensuring the successful transfer of advanced
knowledge and skills from higher centers of learning overseas. Signing of a
contract would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(c) of the
draft Credit Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing
48.     Total project costs, based on prices prevailing in April 1981 and
updated to reflect increases to October 1982, are estimated at US$9.6 million
equivalent. Physical contingencies were included at 10% for civil works and 5%
for all other items. Price contingencies for local costs were based on the
following inflation rates 20% for 1982, 15% for 1983, 13% for 1984, 10% for
1985, 11% for 1986 and 10% for 1987. Price contingency estimates for foreign
costs were based on the following international inflation rates: 8% for
1982-83, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985, and 6% for 1986-87. Foreign exchange
costs are estimated at US$6.7 million, or 70% of total project costs. The
proposed IDA credit of US$7.8 million would finance 100% of foreign exchange
costs (US$6.7 million), 38% of local costs (US$1.1 million) and about 85% of



-16-
total project costs, excluding duties and taxes. The Government of Bangladesh
would finance the remaining project costs amounting to about US$1.8 million
including duties and taxes. Details of the costs are given in the Credit
Summary. A condition of effectiveness would be that the Project Proforma 1/
satisfactory to IDA has been approved by GOB (Section 5.01(d) of the draft
Credit Agreement).
Procurement
49.     Since the civil works component comprises small and scattered works
unlikely to be attractive to foreign bidders, contracts for these works (US$2.6
million) would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Association. Civil works contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$75,000 or more would require prior IDA review of specifica-
tions, tendering procedures and contract awards. Contracts for equipment and
vehicles (US$0.6 M) which, to the extent practicable, cannot be grouped into
bid packages of US$50,000 equivalent or more suitable for international com-
petitive bidding, and contracts for furniture (US$0.4 M) may be procured in
accordance with local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA,
provided, however, that items estimated to cost US$15,000 equivalent or less
may be procured through normal commercial channels on the basis of at least
three price quotations, up to aggregate amount of US$100,000 equivalent.
Library materials, including books and journals, and teaching aids (US$0.9 M),
may be purchased directly from publishers or authorized distributors at the
lowest quoted price. With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$25,000 or more, prior IDA review of procurement documents
would be required. The provision of technical assistance services and the
award of fellowships (US$4.1 million) would be in accordance with IDA
guidelines and procedures. Selection and appointment of individuals needed for
incremental staff, and research and seminars (US$1.0 million) would be in
accordance with locally established procedures. The above amounts include
contingencies.
Disbursement
50.     Proceeds of the proposed IDA credit (US$7.8 M equivalent) would be
disbursed as follows:
(a) civil works and construction materials (US$1.8 M); 80%;
(b) vehicles and equipment (US$0.5 M);
(i) directly imported; 100% of foreign expenditures
(ii) locally manufactured; 100% of local cost, ex-factory
(iii) other (off-the-shelf); 65%
1/ An internal GOB document approval of which is necessary for the appointment
of staff and the release of funds.



-17-
(c) library materials and teaching aids (US$0.6 M);
(i) directly imported; 100% of foreign expenditures
(ii) locally procured; 90%
(d) furniture (US$0.2 M); 60%;
(e) fellowships (local or overseas) and consultants (US$3.6 M);
100%;
(f) incremental staff salaries, 100% in FY83, 90% in FY84, 75% in
FY85, 50% in FY86, 25% in FY87 and thereafter (US$0.3 M);
(g) faculty research, case development and seminars (US$0.2 M); 60%;
(h) unallocated (US$0.6 M).
51.     Withdrawal applications under (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) above would
be fully documented. Disbursements under (f) and (g) would be submitted under
staLtements of expenditure. Expenditure disbursed against certified statements
of expenditures would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA. Withdrawal applications would be prepared by BMDC and the Dacca,
Chittagong and Rajshahi Universities.
52..    Accounts and Audits:  All project implementation agencies. would prepare
and maintain separate accounts to reflect correctly the project's financial
position. Such accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors,
acceptable to IDA. The audited accounts, together with the auditor's report,
would be sent to IDA within six months following the closing of the relevant
fiscal year (Section 4.01(c) of the draft Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
53.     The proposed project would be implemented over a five year period under
the guidance and supervision of a Project Steering Committee (PSC), which would
be chaired by the Chairman of the University Grants Commission (UGC). Its
membership would include the Directors of IBA and BMDC, Deans of the three
Faculties of Commerce, and one representative each (not below the rank of Joint
Secretary) from the Ministries of Education and Industries and the External
Resources Division. Establishment of the PSC with membership, powers and
functions satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(Section 5.01(a) of the draft Credit Agreement). The Director of the IBA, the
three Deans of the Commerce Faculties and the Director of the BMDC would be
directly responsible for the implementation of the respective components. A
Project Coordinator appointed within the UGC will coordinate and oversee the
implementation by the participating agencies. Appointment of the Project Coor-
dinator with the rank and status not below that of university professor, and
with qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment satis-
factory to IDA would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of
the Draft Credit Agreement).



-18-
54.     UGC, which is responsible for overseeing and coordinating development
programs for the universities, in consultation with the respective Commerce
Faculty Deans, and the Directors of IBA and BMDC, would select and appoint the
overseas institution providing the technical assistance to the project
(para. 47 above). IBA, the Commerce Faculties and BMDC would establish with
the overseas institution collaborative programs in respect of staff development
and overall program improvements. The overseas institution would be contracted
by UGC and its responsibilities would include, inter alia, the following:
(a) assist in the preparation of a faculty development program (i.e., identify
areas of deficiency and/or future emphasis, recommend appropriate programs and
overseas institutions for training of faculty members); (b) assist in the
review of curriculum, teaching materials and methods, the faculty research
program and recommend measures for improving their content and relevance to
Bangladesh's needs; (c) maintain close liaison with the trainees sent overseas
under the project and provide the necessary feedback to their parent institu-
tions in Bangladesh; (d) provide visiting professors and consultants as
required to support the planning, implementation and monitoring of the project.
IBA and the Commerce Faculties Component
55.     This component would be implemented by the Director of the IBA and the
respective deans of the commerce faculties under the general'supervision,
coordination and guidance of the UGC.
56.     Staff Development:  The fellowship component of the proposed project
would be administered by the UGC with assistance from the overseas training
institution; the overseas training would be carried out in accordance with
conditions, criteria and procedures acceptable to the Association. (Sec-
tion 3.08 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
57.     Curriculum Development:  The process of curriculum improvement is a
continuous one. The project would start this process by initiating a full
scale review of the existing curricula and course contents, followed by
appropriate action. UGC would sponsor this program with the assistance of the
visiting professors/consultants, who would work with the Academic Board of IBA
and the respective Boards of Studies of the Commerce Faculties. The effort
would be a concerted one by the three universities in conjunction with sig-
nificant inputs from professional managers in industry. This would be achieved
through the establishment of a Curriculum Review Committee (CRC) headed by the
chairman of UGC (or his representative not below the rank and status of a
university professor) to coordinate and guide the activities in these regards.
Detailed terms of reference and composition of this committee (which would
include representatives from industry and commerce) have been agreed with IDA.
The Committee would submit its report to IDA by December 31, 1983, and UGC
would review the Committee's recommendations and implementation plans. The
recommendations of the review would be carried out taking into account IDA's
views (Section 3.10 of the draft Credit Agreement). Membership of the CRC
would change periodically, but would always include academics returning from
advanced study so that regular inputs would be obtained from those with recent
exposure to the latest advances in management education.



-19-
58.     Faculty Research and Case Development Programs:  Faculty members would
identify and formulate proposals for funding under the project. The Committees
for Advanced Studies and Research at the three Universities, as part of their
normal duties, would supervise implementation of the respective programs and
ensure quality control. IBA and the Commerce Faculties would prepare a
detai:Led program for research and case development for each year of the project
period for submission to IDA not later than March 31 of the preceding academic
year (Section 3.09 of the draft Credit Agreement). In addition, by January 31
each year, the Commerce Faculties would annually prepare and furnish to IDA for
its comments detailed proposals for assignment of faculty members to industrial
or commercial enterprises (Section 3.12 of draft Credit Agreement).
BMDC t'omponent
59.     BMDC has a well established organization with requisite professional
and administrative staff and well defined operational procedures. BMDC's
existing institutional capabilities are adequate for effectively implementing
the proposed development activities. However, it would require assistance with
curriculum and program development for which technical assistance would be
provided under the proposed project. BMDC's research programming methods are
well-organized. It has a Research Division which formulates and generates
research proposals which are then reviewed by a Research Advisory Committee
(cons:Lsting of senior external specialists in social science research). BMDC's
Research Division, in collaboration with the Research Advisory Committee, would
prepare a detailed program of research and case development during the project
period and submit it to IDA no later than March 31 of each year for the follow-
ing academic year (Section 3.09 of the draft Credit Agreement). BMDC has
prepared a detailed faculty recruitment and training program acceptable to IDA.
Project Benefits
60.     The benefits to be derived from the proposed project relate mainly to
improvements in the quality of management education and training. Specifi-
cally., project assistance would result in: (i) better qualified staff through
the possession of higher degrees; (ii) improved curricula which are relevant to
local management needs; (iii) significantly expanded research activities and
case development to enrich teaching methods utilizing local experience and
ensure the availability of up-to-date teaching materials; (iv) better equipped
teachLng facilities through the provision of teaching equipment, library books
and periodicals; and (v) improved links with industry and commerce through
expanded training for working managers, and short-term attachments of faculty
members to industrial and commercial enterprises.
61.     The project would also increase the physical capacity of the management
education and training institutions to help meet the critical shortage of
properly-trained managerial manpower in Bangladesh. By 1986, IBA would have
the capacity to produce about 240 M.B.A.s and provide in-service training for
about 900 higher level managers annually, compared with present capacity of 80
and 300 respectively. Similarly, BMDC would be able to provide in-service
trainlng to over 2,300 mid-level and supervisory personnel annually compared
with about 1,400 in 1980. Quantitative expansion combined with qualitative
improvements would raise the standards of management in Bangladesh, which is a



-20-
basic development constraint, and would result in significant longer term
benefits to the economy.
Project Risks
62.     The principal risk to the proposed project concerns the implementation
capacity of local institutions, both in their ability to achieve the physical
targets as well as the desired quality improvements. However, the local
implementing institutions are well established autonomous bodies which have a
wide range of existing skills and manpower. Their capacity will be
strengthened by the external technical assistance to be provided under the
project. In particular, the overseas management training/academic institution
would provide close professional guidance and supervision in implementing and
monitoring all critical aspects of the project. It will also help ensure the
successful transfer of advanced business management knowledge and skills from
higher centers of learning overseas. This would minimize the risks of not
being able to achieve and sustain the quality improvements in management educa-
tion and training programs under the project.
63.     The IBA and the Faculties of Commerce components pose one additional
possible risk. Recently there has been some student unrest in Bangladesh
universities and colleges which, if it recurs could have disruptive effects
on project implementation. Nevertheless, the serious desire on the part of
the students and teachers in the Faculties of Commerce to improve the standard
of their performance should limit this risk; a well-trained and motivated
faculty, decent physical and educational facilities and a rigorous academic
program would facilitate successful implementation of the proposed development
program.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the
project are listed in Section III of Annex III. Additional conditions of
credit effectiveness would be that: (a) Government would have entered into
an agreement with an overseas institution satisfactory to the Association to
assist in the implementation of the project (para. 47); (b) GOB would have                     *
approved the project proforma (para. 48); (c) GOB would have established a
Project Steering Committee with membership, powers and functions satisfactory
to the Association to assist in overall project implementation and coordination
(para. 53); and (d) Government would have appointed a Project Coordinator with
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory
to the Association (para. 53).
65.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.



-21-
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by
Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
December 27, 1982



-242-                                            Annex I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVlAGES
APEA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             144.0                                  MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME                  M1DDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       97.3               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC                ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    40.0         70.0     130.0                261.4                    890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          ..        24.9       39.7               448.7                     701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 53491.0       68117.0   88513.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  5.1            7.6      11.0                 17.3                     32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        141.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          321.3
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        371.5       473.0      600.7               158.1                     255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    561.9         703.0      889.0               355.9                    1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           44.3        46.3       42.8                36.8                      39.9
15-64 YRS.                           52.5        51.0       54.6                59.7                      56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.2         2.7        2.6                 3.5                       3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.9         2.4        2.6                 2.0                       2.3
URBAN                                3.6          6.3       6.5                 3.3                       3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       53.5        49.2       45.3                29.3                      31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       28.1         22.7      18.2                 11.0                      9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.6          3.4       2.9                  2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       373.0    1607.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..        8.9/c              19.3                      36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           106.0       101.0       97.0               108.1                     115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     87.3        84.7         ..                97.3                     106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            43.9        42.7         ..                56.9                      54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          9.1         8.7         ..                20.0                      13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       24.8        23.0       20.0                10.9                       6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.3          41.6       46.3                 57.8                     59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            159.0       150.3      136.1                89.1                      63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        45.0       53.0/d              32.9                      32.0
URBAN                                 ..         13.0      15.0/a              70.7                      51.9
RURAL                                 ..        47.0       55.0/1              22.2                      20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         6.0        5.0/e              18.1                      37.7
URBAN                                 ..           ..      40.0/i              72.7                      65.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                 4.7                      24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                ..      8427.2/f 12691.9/c             3297.8                    8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..     76808.3   40489.7/;g            4929.3                    4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 ..      7021.5/j  4499.3/c             1100.4                    1047.5
URBAN                                          818.5/i   627.4/' 301.3                                  651.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..   23362.4/i            5815.7                    2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..         ..                  ..                     27.0
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..         5.9/h      5.8
URBAN                                 es         6.17F      6.1
RURAL                                 ..          5.97r     5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..       3.5
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..



-23-
Annex I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
3ANGLAlW" --S0CIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVZAGIE
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT                                 KIDChDLE iNCOE
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb    ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA 6 PACIFIC
EDUCATION
AD3USTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                47.0         52.0     65.0                97.4                    96.2
MALE                 66.0        68.0      79.0              101.0                    99.8
FEMALE              26.0        34.0      49.0                87.8                    92.1
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 8.0        19.0      25.0               53.0                     37.6
MALE                 14.0        29.0      38.0               63.8                    41.1
FEMALE               1.0         8.0       11.0               41.3                    34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)  1.0         0.8       0.7                 1.7                   20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             ..       45.1      43.8               37.7                     35.5
SECONDARY                          ..        26.4      24.9                20.2                    25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)      21.6         23.0/h    26.0/c             52.1                    73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         0.4      0.4                 1.5                     9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..        6.0       8.2               35.4                    116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         ..       0.5                3.2                    37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TROUSAND POPULATION                   ..         ..       4.7               16.4                     53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   .           ..       ..                 3.6                    2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL TABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   19251.6    23611.0  31477.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 15.2         16.6     17.5                29.5                    33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            87.0         86.0      74.0               70.0                    52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                3.0         3.0      11.0               15.0                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              36.0        34.7      35.6               40.0                     38.5
MALE                               58.7        55.9      56.9               51.8                     50.5
FEMALE                             11.4        11.9      12.9               23.8                     26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.3         1.4       1.3                1.0                     1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3/i        *-     14.6/k
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.571     44.1/J   42.2f.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.971      8.7T       6.97*
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.97T      19.6fl   1B.2*-
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    139.0/c             133.8                    194.7
RURAL                              ..          ..    111.OIE              111.1                  155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..                 ..                    178.2
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                 ..                    164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLLTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..      86.0/c             43.8                    24.4
RURAL                              ..          ..      86.0/&             51.7                    41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted aritbuetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on av"alability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; /I 1972; /h 1973; /i 1964;
/.' 19677 Lk 1974.
May 1982



-24-                                                       ~~~~~~Annex I
oo:Alonough so. detour. drown (ra   source... Serernlly judged the  -s  auhrtaiead reLiable, Lto ehud o.so be nosed that tiny asp no  be Inter
naitaally   -aepaotlebecus                    C. ..hsl....n   ...d.A..d.. t .rlrc   ond..onn.pCe used by different courorte  toniloho   In  date.  The     C do ..ro  none-
enele..  oafit  d            ncob otee'fcgiue   niaec050   c   hrcaisoret   ojrdfeecsbtencutis
Th re ference dr-ur  are ~I) ens owes coutry grou.p of the eco ret  -co,tCy co  (21 . countCry goptbesshtbgrovaeinoehetecutydOP
ofteobeonAllnyroep  I.r   'High boom-   Oil hopor....e"  group whore 'Middle toose North Afric-aoed M1didle  at   scoe  otr-s  aesran9er
hOoio.cu tore I afinfobee.  In the  eosneocagroup des oh. wowog.gats  cpuiaiton neighia  sotChasl..moos  or.such tdtoeser  odhshoesooiyIera
ajar lop cfr.       oois  nagroup he:dtefo  tha.t    intocr. hc    hs  -or.   of C.unorLee asog toe todineoredepnd  o  ohs  -1nsilhi tp of d.05
and is noIcdr,ooccss  be .eernIsed in relasvcg   ...rago. of woe irdic...ur to e..gher.  Thsonsee   woe -nly usadaI incL.                                wn   tin  ralu  of
oneiteioot An   siCaaeent   .  ...coutry and  eisreo..       grups
ARiA  .h.u..n   sa.)                                                                              Pruec tcca  cewne   Bwd - teowi, urban, cod rue.             -PpuaHc.otl
Tfool - To ta  eu Cft  ae   co0owtg  wd area ate Licsoetne   1979ecw dthot   cd rrCl  abded by Cheir  repec tins rue tsbr  fbefscho
bculrw -fEt isete of utiuuu ei re  aced  eepor..rhipy or Per.manently                      -eoebihi  0 P.0 pow li  cd prio-ts general an d opeieisd hteroa-P           r
toe crops, panurse. ortn  one kiochs.grdo  ortoii  faIlco; 1979 data.                       hbeiiitwo. con  oetn . cPitee1s are  etab lishmonet Pereeneo  iy taf fd
cy c1I.[es  one. phpsicle.  Ostabliebmenos prodiding prtncipeily noeho
GMP Pit CAPITA (diii - GNP Per capita ee le tee a   ...currer  sattt Prisa ...a.l-                     diL.  oars err non ioludsd.    o.e  hee.pitait, h-cCca. icalode heacot
o9olcodN   se'ocr onoto    shrdln   holes Cl) 178-80 heeis(; [960,                                  end eadite  censr ...    r -,Cper-soenly eraffed by  w  hsi  e  i         y. a
17,ad [0ar.idital  .esisa ..  C. cuse  eld:if. sic.  ahio  offer  A10-aietCwa
FhOtON  TH'2Nq,4TTON PER CoPITA - Ao..al  onup  o   f C.aoorctolweoy(ra   l ..  N    .L1                      puptsatu    c ol  include 'Ndao. itre/enrlhoepto
cod lIno.ctoac  ..tura Ia  cod hydno-.  -ulee  cod  .c.....a  .0c-ad rural h,sueo.lolo   ua  hoepitale awd sodi-al woo st...nIny
oICsY;  in cla  n C-ol eo           Pol otew  -upite; 196029, IT. nd 1979                         Cener.   psilcs hsptowa  re  ncudd wopn odrl                     ctl
cetO.                                                                    o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jt..a....oawar   osira  ted - bolt-  n-ebw  of aelaton   toot d t-coarg
trt'. htwaintoleinideid by oh. tuber of Seas.
POPULAoTION 00D VIrAL SIATIOTICS                                                                        N
,.tl Pc. oton    idt-Y.o,  rh-aooodc( - he of July 1; 1Mb60, 1970, and 19)0                     ±afSIh
dat.                                                                                            CoSra  lies of dosa...(. rcc   ntbueud-toa.uh.end roral-
100cc Pupolt ion ,jjaracto 0Ctota) -Hooo  orca  cc total puato;A hc....itld o..woet.c ofaocro A                                     lodiridualwhcarlntgqrar
dilienact  ad iticioe  00 upte   tt.-  naY ofl-c  co-u-nhllt  of Osee                      and theft  oto  -eals.  A beerdet an Lodger may or s-Y net he iooudad ho
arn    wtre;960, 1977. uca 1902 acre.                                                    tin  hwoeeewld lwr soanletloa1 Poryoss.
pouatnInnercC-Cu-etopanopcet e ar  hated cc 19t0                                            hs  at peew    e act toal   rhc,  n  rurlunold  nnvt1e
total P            bpytino  age And te  atd thnir rarolit  ed feriiyrts                          sligc   epoleyCsloeeela    t-smes  Ie-rut-ren
Prale.ctian   ar -etrsic   mete.y rae.n....f.he   scl  aaa                                      uocPled porte.
log111 [lie   ......oc  at birt In urwat..gPco    au      y.,pe       itoa  dousocs   oieti  t   preto   ollsi-etf  cir   n   oe 
led,an  bd     ila caperso-y erasiliafag at 77.5 ywere.  Th. pwre-                      CaoniaNaldai swt    ietrtnyi[cngqroeasptnog
eatar  (n  frCcilboyrs-ola   hon  thes.         ee..    eaigduln   na  icol..O].LA                                  ud  orwi awo!llge  epciey
E.herb . cuty Lw then.. aesgssd a      tef ehe..e nineotswle   of sar-lity                EDU2ATIhc
osd fertilityC.. teds Tot praj-coiw   P`rp-ee                                                 Ahdl--et.. Itsllat
Statiwnery nowo1.lat-  - In     tainayonuaso   mr  Ls no g,..h a.c.                               PnLmarr eChnel- toa,   ae  t  f-mac-L.oets                      an cd fgnele
the birth rat  Is aqoa   osedahrt,ad ae  nhe og  srctrer-                                         etralImanC of allIae    tto he Primary  enel as  p          toengas of  -apeotios
teinwowetCt.  This 00 echio-d caly afner farctlty  reos  dCline C toPrLea 'Y schwa-aspeo Atin;no "lY icue  chlnagd 6-11
,h, rsloe    -n ao] of unit -etrduti ocrat. oheneauh  enoareten                                   Y-er. but odjue..ed Ote diffeessot leagobe or primary eutnosLan; far
0 Aun r....a.wa  Icef wooly.  The s,tago.naty ppuaiaese   ate....ie  oah aeiln.r..l edoosLawenolmnt-Y t                                                     dse  100 Percent
Oa  as    ctoo bwieo  te  o [ttdoaeteis                 fth   wuaoC-acesm   pupils are below or ctn   she cffta te  eubhnl ege.
Lw tow  pee  22020, atdotsh. rwse  afaecira o    sole    see  rpi..i.n.r   oie     ttf,ml  end   ssl  -   Vetd a                                                       .... nacdory
lo.s, nunen       Iuwlaion 1 Ia -ahed - The pear  hbee eteototay pupulatoW.                         pte-tdeegeeel   ou..e,a t'.c tee teoonia L.tatroa.s.ne .7cr puPia
ire  uill cerea-tac.                                                                             usua lly of 10 t. 17  er   feg   aeepneo   ere   ere genstIly
P,yc..sscr.lsnscen                                                          sn~~~~~~~~~~~Claded.
Per c.;  n.- Ola-poon   apa cocoacpar squcr  ulmaCoer (100 hetsar-ai of               fc...tontal a             (Plen    cert.ns of. s.a..t.r.   V- oct...Le   inetieutt.t.
tost"  ares 19[60. 1970  Aan  1079 doso.                                                        intluda teohoicel, induesrie.  at1 ot herprgrt  nsiah oa...tC  iseepano
Pere.  n  oroltrl  ed      opated  as ebwe far egrl-Io-lra  lend                                  entlyore depwrtmeeee of  -eescy   asiutas
only100. laT  eny99dt.Puh-ete   ate-wien  ond esonoYdeer - Tsel etu1deosl esrIlted in
Paultl    uel`  c  toe(p              Cht f-ibldrc-  )0-14 yearsf. workig-ste  (15-              primayedsetteylcl  diidd)bynas-                        n  tat..r  It the
4N pee. cd retre    C6 per  acd onef . eP..r.teerwee  If sId-per.  papa-uropedglel.
laia;1000  107  and IM6H data.                                                             Adule litere-  rae  wereo  - hstssteln   (as, 00 reed a-d nt
Pogainioc   ate1  ..e.s tl)-nts  - Awnual ttweh Cotea ef toatl sad-                      Pae      ..a pnetage of rtal. Idl   uulso td 1. C'      15 peers sadon.
pea           fr pplcu a  INf_o-h.  -HH-0, w  1970-g0.
ynualn   rwhRtaHytn)-ohr  - ceouwl aronh rates of artew  popa-                            CONOiTh(TION
L"tan A or 19 52-h60[002   an   97-0.                                                           P..ae.naor Tar  Pact thotecod Pcor1oiotuf-   P.....ngr were c-pttee -asCr
srd    irco  .tat  (A. r h, ..o.nud)   A docua  Ine births pen thb..eand of eta-year.. o                .rs IRSon   [see than eight pareata; eocs    a er    hearse  and
Popuain192  190,en  100  et.                                                                       litery nehblue..
TyodeHwarhpaes  oar oousod) - ..caIdeatie per sh.....d  of cod-peer                       Lodic Rsele..     (et.bunoI-r--tcc    "I2 typew  of nu                    tfar tadia
populeoo; [Mo. 1970 And 199  data.                                                         brwdoo  nw  eere  pubIlc per th-uceod of pponoe                  loideu ow-
OrIeA lnraaut ,n,ateboses   number et datgttersaoam.eu  aill beriClcneorcies  cauttw    n LA                                                     peps.chw  roietreion'a
her normal. nepro.dootieproo   lIae'pllse    reeoaaepoiitr-s                                             a - 10  ifaco; date fw,r reces  per  mayc not. he cwAe l  since
rumpt  rate; usuall1Y  Ice-year. ...rage. .cdig in [9602. 1970. and 1900.                          ..e HIunrw       boliebad lice-ir.6
Famify P..su-nsor.uoal[woadl-gro  number of a-aPt..e                                              TV teowCers (mr tho..o   ruy  ... w-1  TV ree Ioe                  ...a hadnott
Pesl.  ieniro  -  ser   necen  od maried  sasn  - Perostoega of aearnediwo etesndipeswenrtsrinofTeteasnefc.
Fomn ofci  -ern    g   1-*pse)ecas.in-oceieie   ow                                               HeLArn Ctirwo-dLa.c (pear. tboesh          noitof .hoeoA5aeag
pobhitoeico drowsed primarhiy tw   -,udlt.g genarl cAs.  Ito in ooidered
FOOD oiND tNUTRTION                                                                                   to be `cdelfy" if ft appears at lea..  foo  time.   _enb
Iodes ot Paud Production Par C.rt   10-i10      wa  o   o   eiaaoo                                 ieA..aua  Hntndaoce P.r CIwta car Teat - Sated ow tbC osero
isa   alna  peer besic.  C.o~ditiescae  primry sands (e.g. ogancar                            end metl  un_its.
iocead of -Suer  uhich ar  edible end .....t  noteisreeAC  (e.g. toffee aod
teeC -we  sabdsdf    r.hggrts  pnodatinw  A of..ah ..ctry L. base.d on                      LABOR FORCE
causfworg   rwdat priow  teighte; 196.1-65, 19T. wad 1900 dens.                       Turs1 L.b"r  afre (sh2wnda  - t...atwlali  acti-e perona.inlig
Par canoe eurrir of wolorhee 'corcent of reotirseacts) - iw ... tra.                arme  foressodseLYed hut e-ldira h-aei-e, atadat..                      etc.
enor     rocaineient of ne1. t  fad eupplias f-aieb1  irwnt   a   eiaoreigppleo   fdlie.                                                     fatosL    CIAwiu   -ctrissar
Per doy.  A-eilable supplies  -wprian dome-s-nitpwda               AW...[ers   [asa               nut s..eP...eblet lOt0. 197  owM 90  ae
sepanas.  and Chegee Lw tsoe.  MNe  eoep[i.sewrinds animl food. seeds,                                a     .....r.et    - Fmle lboer fors  sPeretg   fcoc   ao               :-c.
q"atsitfe aced is Owed parshs    e  I..... to dieoribeeios.. Kequine-                                                        IC-0iii?.tnt       oa  force tn   artng  foaoY' rningan
meets 'creesimte  by PAM bamad on physinlesha1 smade for-              re  aei-                    fibe         4eprweatege At  tCte I abCr Ounce;L160 9702 sod 1960 dor..
nity  ad health ....eidering aeriamae  tpreue  body weighte.  age                                 -wde-y [resI-   - Labor farce  insL          agAaarueo.A AnfCsn
wad d- dietribotias of PaPtlso.odel cnn    0  e sofrwat   nand   eefiy   neastend .ee .w p                                                       tresan   ad total lao  ferns;
ha.oeehold I...el; 196L-6N, 1970 sed 1977 deec.                                                     [960, 1970  and 1999 data.
Per capitos ..u.ply ofI   eesfrm    a   a)-Paesrsetf                       prrwpotPetitrsie   at  fsoo'tf-ttlmawaw    es-Prorein0
netC aupply af Pond peC    a.Ma   upy  ffe  ddefiwed.1            5eaen.5a                        eoiy 1ess  r   nptda   oa,ae    e   eaelIctfrte at
qairemete  for cli  -.ta.ri. setaithbd by'lOS'D  prsvtde fcr .iiapenera                                        of srt,o esl   e and laat  papuletta  of all taos  -ePestIn-y;
Iioere   f 'Ml grim  of nAta   pr li   o   ey and 20 gra   of esimIal 4 so190   970,.wad 1960 dete.  Thee  ore ..brsda   00s  atcptu   rai
pois   p Ioe, ofAbih 10 gram  shoud h   unim   proteinU.Ths  e-d-rfl nigesenenusr   fos  o ainan  low gmetnd.A
ends are lowe  then sb..e of 75 gre Ato  easel pcte.e. end 23 greas of                            Pset. sII---e are frineearoi.l ecrss
.atia    rti   ee   ctg               i   ol,pooe  by PAO is tin Third                          toacoel  Dsog             L     UCSa L- Aci  of; poasto   udr  )an   0  o  o
M.fld rend i. .s1   91-65.1970 aC 97 an.t  the total labor fot.,
Per  aeat   ...ei LA    el 'Y   m  anialandbIs    ProteiA su.pply of food do-
,iped free esimleed puLse  LALIea  e  dy  16-65. 19'70 ace 1977 des,                          ieosc-iOftof
Child Case  I-of teeth Sate fret nh-oeend  - Anneal deaths par thousand Ia                        Pscneo   fPen            Iras  (bosh iooeh and kind) - Nosicad byniobset,
agegrup  .4peas,so  hidrZ.     t hi  ie  ge grou.pi for mast develepinetosl          pCoos   iaes  0prnn.  nrs                         p2 .entn.  un   oo.i  2wec
orise deec denined Tree fife tables; 1960, 1970 end 1900 data.                                    af hnu..shalds.
[If  Oneonroas  int(cerg   -  oerg . achet o  pearsa ad life remaining                obticrmseiee    r  cr   prsmt    aoe f P-Otto  soIc
at dItto;  .960, 1970 and 1660 tate.                                 and eheuld he interpreted  irish caraiwareblhe ceh.atiwn.11: "I    P
Iwdart ttaltoy  Ste lest  hauowed7- eansua  deaths of  Nfote wader owe pest            footmeed .Aabalats Pocerenlsrue lnnl liS)co  ;apie  -ahen  td  -upai 
or  ge  ee  houandlon  biths   1900,L970 on  10  dwt,                                        hiolosp             LAoptoe   les   La Chot incmae..blw  fa       otf
esat:r eaPppip  iroaIdesC . treate  wurfac. store or unreated boo  MAtaeststcaol                teetd ssto Pvry                   anLel110wrete   - hA Acdur.
wterash       ta  free prareneed b-rsnoles  sprega.  sad ewnlsary wells] ASoatlratn                                 Meyttmlvl is    -et ,nid ofastepract
-arennSee ofC'.L,Co reP,nt    pepulaslons.  On - ardas ares e puhLIt                             pdre.n-l magma of tin  coutry.  'dotes.  ...e  teL derived fru- the rurai
fosuco  efendecet located  ..,mere the  2002   et  free     ina   "aY he.                    I.ne    eh adjustment for hIgher coot At liotna in  ror an ......
ownldered se bl.Sg  1tehic rs..e..alc  Atone of thee hoofse.  Ao roa   res                    tiiw       PArpl.tsian Baloe AbenoLet  Psysrn  Lnum  Ls...,Io±in,,,~r
teecashlabL  wac. would imply shag ohs b.....nIf. o,-r machre .o or As....d                       and r.re.. I Part...Cof pepoloios (anew  and tart)oh  erC             selt
do nlog h-.c o  apead . dieq,ptap Iotooas  port of tin day  in 'fasnotog tin                      P.
pecsegsa  their e.ees.   n p   eptatae.   e-r.ow  diepue..  ma -Y oud
tin .aLeai. sad  depsewL. esth or ttaseas seatmesb, ef OtANet eatnesC
wed ...sta-nart by eaer-inena epetets or tin.us  of pft pringe and SIoL-
Joe i-eselhetws'..
P ... lAi..  Iar      - fopaoaleel dinided by noie  of prancsietg physt-                                                           tnraiic.  and SIaLel Dete Dolcinie
clare qualfiftd from a eadigal echeo  at urlereity level.                                                                         Economic hAslycle  era PeoJareLocs Oepertmae
Peuate 'a ueltLA  Peas .   PR paeele  dtiaded iy eoawie  of prasetetw                                                                          day 1662
mal  wed feale1 grAdoage ntrees.              ..toeesrC"a, practital -oras  end
turgieg wostitarta..



- 2 5_                                                      Annex I
Page4
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:       91.5 million (January 1982)
GNP Per Capita: US$120 (FY81)
Amount             Average Annual Increase (7)         Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)
(million US$           (in constant FY75 prices)                  (in current prices)
in current prices)
Indicator                                      FY81               FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-81        FY60       FY70       FY75      FY81
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a                       11,989                4.0       -0.6        6.0         100.0      100.0      100.0    100.0
Agriculture /a                                 6,423                3.1       -1.3        4.3          59.9       56.9      62.5      53.6
Industry /a                                    1,680                7.9       -3.2        6.0           7.7        9.6       11.3     14.0
Services 7a                                    3,887                4.9        3.3        8.8          30.1       30.0      26.2      32.4
Consumption                                     11,701                4.4       -0.7        5.7          92.4       92.8       99.1     97.6
Gross domestic investment                        2,064               10.9      -10.9       20.2           6.9       11.3        8.1      17.2
Exports of goods & nfs                              859               0.8      -11.7        5.7          10.0        8.3        3.2       7.2
Imports of goods & nfs                           2,635                8.8      -12.0        3.6           9.3       12.5       10.4     22.0
Gross national savings                              639              26.5      -17.7       -8.4           0.9        6.1        1.0      5.3
Amount                                                 Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)
(million US$                                                       (in current prices)
in current prices)
FY81                                                  FY73      FY75     FY80      FY81
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandis> exports                                 710.8                                               100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Primary /b                                        165.2                                                40.4      29.6     24.3      23.2
ManufactzJres                                    545.6                                                 59.6      70.4     75.7      76.8
Merchandise imports                               2,524.0                                               100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Food                                             342.4                                                 44.1     41.5      29.1      13.6
Petrolewn                                        490.1                                                  3.2     11.1      15.7      19.4
Machinery & equipment                             580.0                                                13.8       9.6     20.0      23.0
Other                                          1,111.5                                                 38.9      37.8     35.1      44.0
FY74      FY75       FY76       FY77       FY78       FY79       FY80       FY81
PRICE AND TERMS OF TRADE INDICES (1972/73-100)
GDP Deflator                                                 140.6      240.5      183.1      177.2      203.6      216.8      249.2     264.0
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                      7.9661      8.8759   14.8521   15.4667   15.1215   15.2228   15.4777   16.3447
Export price index                                           103.7      123.5      107.1      111.8      127.7      167.5      200.9      178.6
Import price index                                          152.8       194.8      186.2      183.1      179.4      218.0      250.3      283.9
Terms of trade index                                          67.9       63.4       57.5       61.1       71.2       76.8       80.3       62.9
As % of GDP
(at current prices)
FY73     FY75      FY77    FY80       FY81
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                           5.0      5.4      9.5      10.6      12.0
Current expenditure                                                      6.5       4.5      7.8       7.8       7.6
Current sutrplus (+) or deficit (-)                                     -1.5      +0.9    +1.7    + 2.8    + 4.4
"apital expenditure                                                       8.8      3.1      9.5      13.5      12.1
Foreign financing                                                         7.1      2.4      6.0       8.3       7.7
FY60-70    FY70-75    FY75-80    FY80-81
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growti rate (%)                                                          4.2        -0.7        5.8         7.9
GNP per capita growth rate (Z)                                               1.5        -3.3        3.0         5.2
Energy consumption growth rate (X)
.    not available
= not applicable
/a At market prices.
Th Raw jute, tea and (in FY81 only) rice.
ASADD
April 15, 1982



-26-
Annex I
Page 5
BANGLADESH
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$, in current prices)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Actual                                                   Projected
FY74       FY75       FY76        FY77       FY78       FY79        FY80       FY81          FY82       FY83
Net exports of goods                                  -551    -1,050         -885       -454       -859        -946     -1,645     -1,813        -1,780    -1,938
Exports of goods                                     374        352        381         411        490         610        727        711           640        732
Imports of goods                                   -925       1,402    -1,266         -865    -1,349      -1,556    -2,372       -2,524       -2,420    -2,670
Net exports of services                                -21          12        -24        -29         -32        -27           3         11          -70       -120
Workers' remittances                                    19          34         62         81         113        143        210         377          400        450
Current account balance                                553    -1,004         -847       -402       -778        -830    -1,432      -1,425        -1,450    -1,608
Direct private investment                               ..          ..         ..         ..          ..         ..          ..
MLT loans (net)                                        276        498         498        238         398        420        581        481           501
Grants & grant-like flows                              174        382         245        265         393        553        591         616          650    -1.608
Other capital flows (net)                               45        275          52        -20        -38         -19        141        304           199
Change in reserves (- - increase)                       58       -151          53        -81          25       -124        119          24          100        -
International reserves (end of period)                 115        266         213        294        269         393        274        250           150        150
Reserves as months of imports of next year            0.98       2.52        2.95       2.62       2.07        1.99       1.30       1.24          0.67       0.63
Actual
FY74        FY75         FY76        FY77         FY78        FY79         FY80        FY81
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official grants                                      173.8       382.3        244.7       264.8        392.6       553.2        590.8       616.4
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                     287.4       518.9        563.5       268.3        435.3       476.8        631.4       531.0
Concessional                                      201.4        458.4       533.0        244.1       400.8        456.4       601.6        509.6
Bilateral                                       150.4        342.8       389.9        144.0       261.9        212.6       272.7        255.2
IDA                                              51.0        112.5       127.8         86.1        88.2        152.5       152.1        170.9
Other multilateral                                -            3.1        15.3         14.1        50.7         91.3       176.9         83.4
Non-concessional                                    86.0        60.4         30.4        24.1         34.5        20.4         29.8        21.4
Official export credits                          40.6         45.2        16.5          5.6          1.7         3.3        16.8          2.0
IBRD
Other multilateral                                 5.4         0.3          1.1         0.5          0.5         0.1         0.3          0.8
Private                                          40.0         14.9        12.8         18.0        32.3         17.0        12.7         18.6
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding and disbursed (end of period) 492.8           1,352.6      1,795.9    2,051.5    2,569.2    2,949.2    3,215.6           3,584.8
Official                                           383.3    1,232.8      1,689.0    1,939.8    2,435.6         2,808.3     3,068.8      3,462.1
IBRD                                              -           54.9        54.9         54.9        54.9         54.9        54.9         54.9
IDA                                             105.6        255.3       379.8        465.9       554.2        706.7       858.8      1,028.5
Other                                           222.8        922.6    1,254.3    1,419.0    1,826.5    2,046.7           2,155.1     2,378.7
Private                                            109.5       119.8        106.9       111.6        133.6       140.9        146.8       122.7
Undisbursed Debt                                     580.8     1,019.4        947.5    1,015.8       1,335.4     1,659.1     1,716.7      2,068.4
DEBT SERVICE.
Total debt service payments                           18.0 '       31.3        87.4        58.5         69.2        95.1         93.7        92.0
Interest                                             7.3        10.1        21.9         28.4         32.1        38.1        43.3         42.0
Payments as x of export earnings                       4.8          8.9        22.9         14.2        14.1         15.6        12.9         12.9
Payments as X of GNP                                   0.2          0.2         1.2          0.9         0.8          1.0         0.8          0.7
Average interest rate on new loans (a )                3.2          2.0         1.7          1.6         1.5          1.4         1.4          1.6
Official                                             2.9         2.0          1.6         1.5          1.3         1.4          1.2         1.5
Private                                              5.1         2.3          7.8         6.4          6.2         6.1          6.9         7.2
Average maturity of new loans (years)                 26.1        35.5         41.6        40.1         37.7        35.9         33.6        35.9
Official                                            28.3        35.8         42.2        40.8         38.6        36.3         34.2        36.2
Private                                             13.3        15.3         11.3        11.0          9.5        14.8         19.3        18.5
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (%)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                     -           4.0          3.0          2.6         2.1          1.8         1.7          1.5
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbursements           -           -            -           -            -           -            -           -
IBRD debt service/total debt service                   -           -            1.8          5.6         4.8         4.1          3.7         4.0
IDA DOD/total DOD                                     21.4        18.8         21.1        22.7         21.6        24.0         26.7        28.6
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursements           17.7        21.7         22.7        32:1         20.3        32.0         24.0        32.1
IDA debt service/total debt service                    1.3          3.1         2.5          5.3         5.4         4.6          6.0          7.3
As X of Debt Outstanding
at End of FY81
TERM STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (%)
Maturities due within 5 years                                           13.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                          36.8
Interest structure of debt outstanding (%)
Interest due within first year                                           1.6
- not available.
ASADD
April 15, 1982



-27-                       ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as at September 30, 1982)
Amount
(less cancellations)
f        Loan or                                                              US$ Million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                   Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 21 credits fully disbursed                      54.90  684.32       -
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970).                       -     14.00      0.65
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of-1964)             -     25.00      2.77
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                        -      7.50      0.10
487    1974   Bangladesh   Telecommunications II               -     20.00      5.29
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                 -     62.00      1.88
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                          -     15.00      3.43
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                  -     27.00    12.31
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                -     22.00      7.64
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training -         12.00      3.48
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                   -     16.00      5.97
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank              -     25.00      3.55
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                   -     16.00      2.55
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                   -     21.00    11.84
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research              -     10.00      2.62
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II           -       5.00     2.12
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                                -     21.00    13.40
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II                -     25.00    16.68
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry II             -      7.00      3.15
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research               -       6.00     1.58
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control          -     19.00    13.57
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III            -     10.00      4.87
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries               -       6.00     5.06
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                 -     25.00    20.79
921    1979   Bangladesh   Population & Family Health II   -         32.00    28.93
934    1979   Bangladesh   Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                    -     28.00    27.41
941    1979   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                     -     22.00    10.48
/a . Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



-28-                       ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                       US$ million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                 Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                -        25.00    22.34
964    1979   Bangladesh   Highways II                      -        10.00     8.83
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII             -        50.00     0.05
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pumps                   -        37.00    21.55
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply II    -           20.00    19.20
1023   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation               -        29.00    26.79
1032   1980   Bangladesh   Jute Industry
Rehabilitation               -        20.00    15.60
1042   1980   Bangladesh   Mangrove Afforestation           -        11.00     9.49
1044   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports II            -        25.00     0.20
1054   1980   Bangladesh   Education IV (Primary
Education)                   -        40.00    36.05
1065/c 1980   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry III         -        35.00    34.42
1071/c 1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program IX               -        65.00    12.80
1091/c 1981   Bangladesh   Bakhrabad Gas Development        -        85.00    50.71
1096/c 1981   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Transport
Project                      -        25.00    18.98
1117/C 1981   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II        -        50.00    44.22
1124L/C 1981   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance IV         -        16.00    15.98
1140Lc  1981   Bangladesh   Hand Tubewells                  -        18.00    16.30
1147LC 1981   Bangladesh   Agricultural Credit              -        40.00    40.00
1184/c 1982   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood
Control II                   -        27.00    26.00
1194/c 1982   Bangladesh   Imports Program X                -       100.00    66.55
/c 1204/b 1982   Bangladesh   Chittagong Urea Fertilizer    -           15.00    15.00
/c 1205/b 1982   Bangladesh   Textile Industry Rehabili-
tation                       -        30.00    30.00
/c 1215/b 1982   Bangladesh   Extension and Research II        -        27.00    27.00
/c 1247/b 1982   Bangladesh   Chittagong Port                  -        60.00    60.00
/c 1254/b 1982   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Thermal Power           -        92.00    92.00
/c 1262/b 1982   Bangladesh   Rural Electrification            -        40.00    40.00
/c 1287/b 1982   Bangladesh   Second Deep Tubewells            -        68.00    68.00
Total                                                54.90  2,242.82 1,030.16
of which has been repaid                             -        0.40      -
Total now outstanding                                54.90  2,242.42 1,030.16
Amount sold                               0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       54.90  2,242.42
Total undisbursed                                      _    1,030.16 10.6
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
/b   Not yet effective.
/c   IDA 6th Replenishment Credits denominated in SDRs.  Amounts of principal
shown in US$ equivalent at time of negotiation and undisbursed amounts
computed at the September, 1982 rate.



-29-                       ANNEX II
Page 3
/a
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS   (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1979      Highspeed Shipbuilding          Ship-
and Heavy Engineering           building
Co. Ltd.                                          1.20    0.36    1.56
1980      IPDC                            DFC                -       1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                      1.20    1.41    2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -           -        -
Total commitments now held by IFC                            1.20    1.41    2.61
Total undisbursed                                            0.65     -       0.65
7'a7 The following IFC investment has been approved but not yet signed:
1981    Asia Leather Industrial
Company Ltd.                Tannery            2.1       .2     2.3
C.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation of the tubewell component is complete and a PCR
has been issued. However, the credit remains open to permit completion of a
delayed pilot command area development component which is also being financed
under the Extension and Research Project (Credit 729-BD).
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-30-                         ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date:  January 30, 1974;  Closing Date:  December 31,
1981
The project closed on December 31, 1981. The Government have been
requested to confirm that no further applications for expenditure are pending
and that the undisbursed balance amount can be cancelled.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Barisal Irrigation Project I was completed on June 30, 1981 and
taken over on maintenance. Barisal extension was taken up with the savings of
BIP 1. Farmers response for the dry season (Boro) cultivation has been much
below expectation mainly due to the land tenure system and credit facilities.
However, there has been an increase of one third over the previous years
cultivation. Good progress is maintained on civil works construction in the
extension area. Procurement preliminaries for the primary pumps, gates and
low lift pumps have been completed and deliveries should have started.
Agricultural demonstration farms are in operation in the extension area.
Generally progress is satisfactory. The project could be completed before
the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation which was about 2.5 years behind schedule has
shown remarkable progress in 1981/82 and if adequate funds are released in
1982/83 completion except for flood embankments will be by June 1983. GOB
expects to provide shortly technical justifications and social reasons for the
deletion of embankments. The trend on agricultural development is encouraging
and expected benefits would be attained. The current project estimates with
embankments and including additional intricate works show a cost overrun of
37 .5%.
The fisheries component is essentially completed. The Raipur
hatchery is in full production and final disbursements are expected to be
made up to the end of 1982.
Cr. No. 631   Rural Development Project:  US$16.0 Million Credit of June 3,
1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Following a request from GOB that the credit closing date be
extended to allow completion of components initially delayed, the closing
date has been extended to June 30, 1983. Project implementation is now



-31-                        ANNEX II
Page 5
proceeding satisfactorily and the project should be completed according to
the new schedule. Sale of Deep Tubewells is almost complete but sale of
Low Lift Pumps is slow. The Rural Industries component has been intensified.
Project management is much improved.
Cr. No. 724   Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Progress in procurement has been satisfactory. All 10,500 pumpsets
have been procured. About 55% of the pumpsets have already been sold. The
conistruction of workshops is proceeding with a modified program and workshop
equipment has been ordered.
Cr. No. 725   Muhuri Irrigation Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Project implementation which was about two years behind schedule
wilL suffer a further setback for delays in finalizing the design and tender
docuaments for the closure dam work. The Feni Regulator is expected to be
operational in February 1983. Agricultural and IRDP activities will commence
in early 1982/83. Farmers' response for adoption of improved agricultural
practice and group formation appears good. A cost overrun is expected due
to a likely increase in the cost of the closure works.
Cr. No. 729   Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
As of September 30, 1982 US$7.38 million had been disbursed.  The
credit was closed on June 30, 1982 and payment for commitments in the pipe-
line will continue.
Cr. No. 765   Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Farmers have been encouraged to use higher quantities of fertilizer,
resulting in higher yields. As expected, higher jute production forced marginal
jute farmers to switch to rice production in the aus season. Consequently rice
production has increased. IDA credit on lending problem has also been solved.
Staff travel allowance is inadequate and that is hampering production credit
recovery effort. Staff housing component has been scaled down.



-32-                          ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 787   Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978;  Effective Date:  September 29, 1978;  Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project had a slow start due to administrative difficulties,
problems in land acquisition and material shortages. Implementation of the
165,000 MT storage construction program has gained additional momentum and
is now satisfactory. The storage rehabilitation component has been reduced
from 25,000 MT to 10,000 MT, and the number of paddy drying from 15 MT to 5 MT
as a result of implementation delay. Contracts for rehabilitation have been
awarded for 7 ,750 MT, and tenders are being issued for civil works construc-
tion of paddy dryers and evaluated for drying equipment. Quality control
equipment has been procured, but considerable additional efforts are required
in the area of grain quality control and inspection. The project is now
anticipated to be completed by June 30, 1983.
Cr. No. 828   Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 Million Credit of June 16,
1978;  Effective Date:  November 15, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Implementation of the project is progressing satisfactorily.
Almost all research station buildings are now complete and farm development
only remains to be finished at the Jessore and Hathazari stations. Research
programs on research stations and those supported by the research grant
scheme are being vigorously pursued. The technical monitoring scheme is now
operating well and a monitoring and evaluation cell, established at BARC
headquarters, will now apply techniques pioneered under the project to all
grant-supported research.
Cr. No. 864   Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Of the three sub-projects financed under the project, Chenchuri Beel
(CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) are expected to be completed on schedule in
mid-1983. Delays have been experienced, however, in the implementation of the
Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE). Agreement has recently been reached on
retirement of the embankment and disbursement for this part of the project is
expected to accelerate.
Cr. No. 890   Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date:  February 13, 1980;  Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project is designed to assist in the development of a group of
six oxbow lakes through the introduction of composite techniques for fish
culture and improved lake management technologies. Hatchery and rearing
facilities will be established for the production of carp fingerlings for
stocking of project lakes where little stocking took place in the past. As
a result, annual carp production from project lakes is estimated to increase



-33-                        ANNEX II
Page 7
from 138 MT to 1,100 MT, representing an eight fold increase. Hatchlings
arnd fry will also be sold to pond owners. This will have a country-wide
imLpact introducing for the first time fish farming technology based on
composite fish culture for small water bodies in private ownership. A
project implementation unit, supported by an international consultancy firm
has been set up within the Directorate of Fisheries. Construction of the
central hatchery at Lake Baluhar started in January 1982, some 12 months
behind schedule. The delay was caused by managerial and administrative
weaknesses and shortage of counterpart funds.  It is now expected that the
central hatchery will start operations in March/April 1983 and the satellite
hatcheries one year thereafter. Full project benefits are expected for 1986.
Cr. No. 955   Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project:  US$25.0 Million
Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date: May 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
A total of 19 subprojects were approved in FY81 and FY82 respectively.
Construction has been completed on eleven subprojects. Progress is satisfac-
tory. However, there is a need to increase substantially the allocations to
the revolving fund to avoid delays in project implementation due to shortages
of funds. This issue is currently being discussed with GOB.
Cr. No. 990   Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Three thousand two-cusec LLPs and 1,500 one-cusec LLPs under the
Phase I sales program, were delivered in October 1980. Orders have also been
placed for the remaining 4,000 LLPs. About 40% of the LLPs under Phase I of
the sales program has been sold. A detailed project Action Plan has been
prepared. About 95% of the projected disbursements (as percentage of appraisal
estimate) has been made.
Cr. No. 1042 Mangrove Afforestation Project: US$11.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overall Project performance is good. The establishment of planta-
tions was carried out according to SAR targets in 1981 and current progress
indicates that this year's target will also be achieved. The procurement of
essential equipment and materials has been completed. The civil works program
has now started and physical progress on the first phase is estimated at
about 15%.  However, staffing remains behind the SAR target.  The implementa-
tion of the Plantation Trial Unit Program has been delayed. No activity
on the Public Relations Component has been started. As a response to the
April/May Supervision, FD has agreed to give high priority to intensify
overall activity on the lagging operations.



,-34-                     ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 1140 Hand Tubewells Project: US$18.0 Million Credit of July 8, 1981;
Effective Date: February 11, 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. Civil works are complete
and plans are well in hand for local foundries to fabricate pumpheads. However,
shipment of raw materials has been delayed by preshipment inspection problems.
BUET and BARC/BARI are being contracted to carry out laboratory and field
testing of alternative handpump models.
Cr. No. 1147  Agricultural Credit Project:  US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 9, 1981; Effective Date: October 6, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to farmers
for investments in minor irrigation and other agricultural development, and
to private borrowers for grain storage facilities. Progress in privatization
of shallow tubewells is proceeding very slowly. Although import licenses have
been issued to authorized private dealers, opening of the letters of credit
is delayed by a new directive not to import certain makes previously author-
ized. STW prices set by GOB are still below those of private dealers.
Appointment of consultants to assist Bangladesh Bank, the implementation
agency, is yet to be made.
Cr. No. 1184 Second Drainage and Flood Control Project: US$27.0 Million
Credit of January 8, 1982; Effective Date: July 14, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
This Credit became effective on July 14, 1982.
Cr. No. 1215 Second Extension and Research Project: US$27 Million Credit
of March 16, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1287 Second Deep Tubewells Project: US$68.0 Million Credit of
August 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527   Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project was cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland,
UK and US, for a total of about US$190 million equivalent, in addition to the
IDA credit. Because of the additional site works, the delays and currency



-35-                      ANNEX II
Page 9
fluctuations, supplemental financing was necessary and has been obtained.
The Project has now been mechanically completed. Despite continuing minor
commissioning problems, production of urea was started in December 1981, about
six months later than anticipated at the time of supplementary financing, and
total project costs are likely to be about US$15 million higher than that
approved at the time of IDA supplementary financing.
Cr. No. 632   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
r                       May 20, 1976; Effective Date:  November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Institutional upgrading program instituted under the credit are
stiLl under implementation, continuing the improvement on BSB's loan account-
ing and staff training. However, because of declining collection BSB's
financial position has weakened significantly. This area of operational
wealkness is receiving close GOB/IDA attention, and IDA is coordinating
closely with ADB and KfW to implement an action program to restore BSB's
financial viability.
Cr. No. 825   Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 Million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date:  September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implement-
ing Banks have developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed
ahead of schedule. There has been significant improvement in institutional
capabilities of the commercial banks; and staff of the Small and Cottage
IndtLstries Corporation have begun preparation of subsector and area studies
for small industry promotion. The project was fully committed by the commer-
cial banks in July 1980.
Cr. No. 980   Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 Million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
As of September 30, 1982 US$49.9 million has been disbursed. The
credit was closed on February 28, 1982 and payment for commitments in the pipe-
line will continue.
Cr. No. 1023 Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$29 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date:  September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate
fertilizer manufacturing companies has been accomplished, and project financing
agreements have been executed. Consultants for providing engineering services
have been selected and their contracts approved.
Cr. No. 1032 Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$20 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been fairly satisfactory though some
delay has been experienced in the recruitment of consultants. Tender Notices



-36-                       ANNEX II
Page 10
for procurement of spares have been issued and those for the construction of
two new training centers are in preparation.
Cr. No. 1044 Second Fertilizer Imports Project: US$25 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982
As of September 30, 1982 US$24.8 million had been disbursed.
The credit was closed on March 31, 1982 and payment for commitments in the
pipeline will continue.
Cr. No. 1065 Small-Scale Industry III Project: US$35 Million of October 17,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The credit became effective on January 15, 1982. The credit com-
ponents of the project are moving well, particularly in the area of small-
medium sized projects. Progress is also satisfactory on the technical and
marketing service components of the technical assistance elements of the
project.
Cr. No. 1071 Ninth Imports Program: US$65 Million Credit of October 17, 1980;
Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Progress on implementing ongoing action program requirements
continue satisfactorily albeit somewhat behind schedule. During FY81,
GOB has initiated a number of the policy changes required under the credit,
particularly in the areas of agriculture/irrigation policy.
Cr. No. 1117 Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II Project: US$50.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: August 12, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
This project continues IDA's involvement with BSB initiated under
Cr. 632-BD. Institutional upgrading programs initiated under that credit
are being continued and GOB/IDA are monitoring carefully BSBs operation
in the areas of loan recoveries and project appraisals. IDA is also coor-
dinating closely with ADB and KfW to implement an action program aimed at
improving BSB's collection performance and financial viability.  As of
September 30, 1982 US$31.7 million of the credit has been committed and
US$5.0 million disbursed.
Cr. No. 1194 Tenth Imports Program US$100.0 Million Credit of January 26,
1982; Effective Date: February 22, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
This Credit became effective on February 22, 1982. As of September
30, 1982 US$33.4 million had been disbursed.



-37-                        ANNEX II
Page 11
Cr. No. 1204 Chittagong Urea Fertilizer Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of
February 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1205 Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$30.0 Million Credit
of February 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 621   Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
All civil works have virtually been completed except for construc-
tion of two new Thana Training Units (50% complete) and for renovation of two
existing Agricultural Training Institutes (ATI), both of which have been slow
to complete due to lack of Taka funds. GOB has now released the needed funds
and work has resumed. The latest estimate (June 1982) for completion of all
works is December 1982. As a result of student strikes in 1981, no first
year students were enrolled and all ATIs are currently operating at only
about 50% capacity. The Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management)
intends to utilize the excess space this year for in-service training of VEAs.
Staffing is adequate and all ATI instructors have received in-service training
under the project. The course to train project managers and those civil
servants directly concerned with implementation of IDA financed agricultural
projects has been successful and an extension of the course to December 1982
has been recently approved by IDA. A further extension to June 1983 is now
under consideration. At the request of GOB, extension of the closing date
from June 30, 1982 to June 30, 1983 has been granted by IDA to allow enough
time to complete all remaining civil works and project activities and to
close all project accounts.
Cr. No. 912   Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of May 31,
1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Progress is evident in several areas of project activity. Bids
have been invited, and the layout plans completed, for the 5 New TTCs.
Equipment being procured by the ILO has started arriving in Bangladesh, and
arrangements for storage, checking, and installation (where possible) are well
advanced. Instructor and In-Plant Training programs are underway. The majority
of Technical Assistance experts are deployed, and a fellowship training
program (suspended for 1 year) prepared. Curriculum Development, trade
standards and tests, and a national vocational training policy are under
preparation. Increased cooperation between the Ministry of Labor (TTCs) and
Ministry of Education (VTI) in Vocational Training is also evident. Project
management, however, continues to be weak and the failure to replenish the
Revolving Fund has hampered instructor and In-Plant training programs.



-38-                       ANNEX II
Page 12
Cr. No. 1054 Fourth Education (Primary) Project: US$40.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 1, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
The construction program is now underway, but it emphasizes school
repairs and other minor works at some 300 schools. However, designs, plans
and estimates for a further 611 schools (including 289 new schools) and other
project buildings are being prepared. Schedules for school furniture have
been prepared and tenders invited.  Textbooks for Class I & II students
procured and tenders invited for the manufacture of girls uniforms. Most
staff are now in position but effectiveness of project management is being
hampered by internal conflicts at the project Director level. A plan for
the recurrent training of teachers has been prepared and the training of PTI
instructors, Thana Education Officers and Asst. Thana Education Officers,
is underway. During the past year 370 officers and teachers were trained.
Four experts under the technical assistance component of the project are now
in post and an agreement signed with the British Council to undertake four
studies required under the project.
Population Project
Cr. No. 533   Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: September 30,
1982
As of September 30, 1982 US$11.57 million had been disbursed. The
credit was closed on September 30, 1982 and payment for commitments in the
pipeline will continue.
Cr. No. 921   Second Population and Family Health Project:  US$32.0 Million
Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date:  April 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project execution, except for the first tranche of the Family Welfare
Center-s component, effectively commenced only in July 1980, about one year
behind schedule. While the Information, Education and Motivation (IEM) and
Research and Evaluation parts of the project are proceeding satisfactorily,
the civil works and Family Welfare Centers- components of the service
delivery and training parts of the project are significantly delayed and
their completion within the original four year implementation period (July
1979-June 1983) is no longer feasible, owing not only to the initial one
year delay in implementation but also to weak implementation capacity of
responsible agencies, and the impact of budget cuts following the Government-s
de facto devaluation of the Taka since appraisal, will result in significant
savings. A two year extension of the project implementation period or a
reduction in the projects infrastructure components to match implementation
capacity with subsequent reallocation of the IDA credit are currently being
discussed with the Government.



-39-                       ANNEX II
Page 13
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408   Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
All works under the project are now complete. Arbitration on the
Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims has been completed, and the Government
*           hias announced that it intends to contest the award, although an out of court
sesttlement remains a possibility. The Closing Date of the credit extended to
March 31, 1981 has been extended to December 31, 1982 to enable the use of
uncommitted credit balance to meet the cost of eligible components of the
arbitration. Significant failures have appeared on Feni Bypass.
Cr. No. 735   Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5..0 Million Credit
of September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Spare parts for BIWTA vessels, navigation aids, hydrographic and
caLrgo handling have been ordered. Most spare parts for BIWTC cargo vessels
and BIWTA service vessels have been delivered and are on order. Consultants
appointed to carry out studies on IWT sector, fleet scheduling of BIWTC and
accounting systems for BIWTA and BIWTC have submitted their reports. Imple-
mentation of the recommendations of the accounting studies is in progress.
At the request of the Borrower the closing date has been extended to
December 31, 1982.
Cr. No. 964   Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
Project implementation has been seriously delayed by the Borrower's
failure to award construction contracts in reasonable time. This failure has
resulted in increased project cost due to inflation. The problem appears to
result from factors outside the control of RHD, e.g., the inability of the
"Procurement Committee" to take timely decisions and standard Government
procedures which are in conflict with IDA procurement principles.
Cr. No. 1096 Fertilizer Transport Project: US$25.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: July 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Trial dredging at Chittagong Port has been completed and results
of the survey are expected by end-1982. Also dredging work at the inland
river port of Baghabari has been completed and pontoons are to be in place
shortly. Tenders for procurement of railway material have been issued.
Progress on other project components has been slow, but regular supervision
missions are providing assistance to speed up implementation. Disbursement
of funds, on the other hand, has been satisfactory.



-40-                       ANNEX II
Page 14
Cr. No. 1247 Chittagong Port Project: US$60.0 Million Credit of May 21,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
This Credit is not yet effective.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 487   Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Effective Date:  July 23, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project execution is largely behind schedule due to previous
delays in procurement, civil works and reduced output of the domestic telephone
cables and switching equipment factories. Difficulties were also experienced
in completing the local construction and installation of the systems. TTB, a
Government board since April 1979, is making significant progress in organiz-
ing its finances and accounts, and in managing its operations and development.
TTB funds had until recently all been deposited in an overall Government
account. Since July 1981, TTB has a designated bank account to which all
funds are deposited and withdrawn and the accounting functions have been
transferred from Controller's Auditor General to TTB. The overhaul of account-
ing functions, staff and methodology is proceeding very well. Recruitment of
staff has been completed and TTB now has an established and trained cadre
of financial staff. Commercial accounts will be preapred from FY82/83 onward.
In general, financial performance of TTB is reasonably good. Thus, TTB is
gradually achieving a level of financial autonomy that will permit it to
adjust its development program within the overall framework of the agreed
budget. Covenants under the project are now being complied with. Since
May 1981, TTB has taken final procurement action to commit the funds remaining
under the project. Works related to last procurement, including national
trunk and international electronic telephone exchanges, will be completed by
June 1983. Adequate actions as would be required to further improve TTB's
management, operations and development capability, will be considered under
the proposed third telecommunications project.
Technical Assistance Credits
Cr. No. 872   Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
37 subprojects, totalling about $10.7 million have been approved.
The credit is about half disbursed and has been over allocated to increase
disbursements. Sixteen subprojects have been completed. The remaining
subprojects are proceeding smoothly except in several instances, consultant
contracts have not been finalized.



-41-                        ANNEX II
Page 15
Cr. No. 1124  Fourth Technical Assistance Project:  US$16.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: June 10, 1981; Closing Date:
April 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on June 10, 1981. Three subprojects
for about $0.2 million have been committed.  A number of proposed subprojects
totalling about $7.0 million have been agreed in principle and steps are being
taken to secure consultant services. In addition, a pipeline of subprojects
r          totalling about $15.0 million is under consideration.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934   Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Foreign consultants (Motor Columbus - Switzerland) have been ap-
pointed as scheduled and have begun design work. Project execution is about
one year behind schedule due to administrative difficulties in preparing maps
for the project areas and to the inability of the beneficiary (Power Develop-
ment Board) to provide adequate local staff for project implementation. To
improve the situation, local consultants have been appointed in September
1981 and conditions have been created to recuperate part of the delay.
Cr. No. 1091 Bakhrabad Gas Development Project: US$85.0 Million Credit
of February 13, 1981; Effective Date: June 16, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Major procurement activities have been completed. Construction of
the Bakhrabad-Chittagong pipeline has been suspended because of the current
monsoon. The construction contract requires completion of the pipeline by
end-March 1983 in line with the original schedule. The last gas well (BK-5)
has been completed. Test results from the drilling program so far confirm
gas reserves and well productivity forecasts by reservoir consultants.
Cr. No. 1254 Ashuganj Thermal Power Project: US$92.0 Million Credit of
June 30, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1262 Rural Electrification Project: US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 30, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1989
This Credit is not yet effective.



-42-                       ANNEX II
Page 16
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941   Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  USS22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
DACCA WASA's consulting engineers have completed design and it is
expected that procurement will be completed by early 1983. Physical progress
is one year behind schedule. Early delays resulted from slow startup and
sluggish procurement but are currently due to land acquisition problems, which
have recently been mostly overcome, and shortage of local currency with which
to pay civil works contractors. Also, recently, DACCA WASA raised its tariff
by 30% and GOB paid off all arrears.
Cr. No. 1001 Second Chittagong Water Supply Project: US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Effective Date: April 9, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
After early delays in selecting consultants for the project a firm
is in place and design is now well advanced. Selection of a second consultant
for a sewerage/sanitation study has been made. An expatriate financial
adviser has proved effective. Procurement has started but implementation
will be about 1-1/2 years behind schedule. Recent tariff increase is not
sufficient and another increase by July 1, 1983 is expected. While there has
been improvement in the collection of arrears from Government departments,
further improvement is still necessary.



-43-                   ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
BUSINESS MANAGEMENT EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
.
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
3 years
(b) Agencies preparing the project:
UNESCO/IDA with the help of consultants
(c) Date of first preparation mission by IDA and date
of first mission to consider the project:
August 1979
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
August 20, 1981
te) Date of completion of negotiations:
October 15, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days after signature
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Action:
None
Section III:    Special Conditions of Effectiveness would be:
(a) The Government would have entered into an agreement
with overseas academic/management training institution
(paragraph 47);
(b) approval of the project proforma (paragraph 48);



-44-                  ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) The Government would have established a Project Steering
Committee (paragraph 53); and
(d) The Government would have appointed a Project
Coordinator (paragraph 55).
Other
Conditions:      (a) The Government would establish a Curriculum Review
Committee with membership, powers and responsibilities
satisfactory to IDA to review existing curricula and
course content and to furnish to IDA the findings and
recommendations (paragraph 57).



