Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10981
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2185-UNI)
JULY 31, 1992
Rep_,NO  10981   JT~A ~
(Ilq AHE  COD,                   o
4ACK 5UNEI,      A  Rj.u  2Y    e )
Erlt   1 990727 'FM°'NT
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                    = Naira (N)
Appraisal Exchange Rate US$1.00   = Naira 0.55
1990 Exchange Rate    US$1.00   = Naira 8.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
ABBREVIATIONS
ADP          Agricultural Development Project
APMEU        Agricultural Projects Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FACU         Federal Agricultural Coordinating ITnit
FASCO        Farmers' Agricultural Supply Company
FDA          Federal Deparai.ent of Agriculture
FGN          Federal Government of Nigeria
FSC          Farmers Supply Centers
GADP         Gusau Agricultural Development Project
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
LG           Local Government
NATSP        National Agricultural Technology Support Project
NFDP         National Fadama Development Project
OFAR         On-Farm Adaptive Research
PCR          Project Completion Report
SADP         Sokoto Agricultural Development Project
SAP          Structural Adjustment Program
SAPMU        Sokoto Agricultural P-ject Management Unit
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SARDA        Sokoto State Agricultural and Rural Development Authority
SSG          Sokoto State Government
T&V          Training and Visit
WB           Worio Bank
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Nigeria             1 January to 31 December
World Bank                        1 July to 30 June



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offlo of DIrootor-Gonaral
Operations Evaluation
July 31, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Nigeria
Sokoto Agricultural Development Prolect (Loan 2185-UNI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Nigeria - Sokoto Agricultural Development Project (Loan
2185-UNI)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This do'-jment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their o' dal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank suthorizetion.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                  FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
SOKOTO AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2185-UNI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE   . ............................................ I
EVALUATION SUMMARY .ii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .1
1. Project Identity.                                                    1
2. Background.                                                          1
3.   Project Objectives and Description.                                2
4.  Project Design and Organization.                                    3
5. Project Implementation.                                              4
6. Project Results.                                                     6
7.   Project Sustainability ................ ............... 9
8.  Bank Performance ..............  11
9.   Borrower's Performance ..............   11
10.   Project Relationship ..............   11
11.   Consulting Services ..............   11
12.   Project Documentation and Data ..............  12
13.   Findings and Lessons Learned ..............  12
PART HI:    PROJECT REVIEW  FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE 1/ . 13
PA.RT m:    STATISCAL INFORMATION  ......                      ........  17
1.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credits ......         ........  17
2.    Project Timetable ..............   18
3.    Loan Disbursement ..............   18
4.    Project Implementation ..............   19
5.    Project Costs and Financing ..............  21
6.    Allocation of Loan Proceeds ..............  22
7.  Project Results ..............  23
8.    Status of Covenants ..............   24
9.  Mission Data .............. 26
10. Staff Inputs ..............  27
Map: IBRD No. 15424R1
1/ Contains the Borrower's comments on Part I of the Draft PCR.
This document has a metricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance
Of their off.cial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMdPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2185-UN!'
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Sokoto
Agricultural Development Project (SADP) in Nigeria, for which Loan 2185-
UNI in the amount of US$147 million was approved by the Board of Direc-
tors of the World Bank (WB) on June 17, 1982. The loan and project
agreements are dated January 4, 1990. The loan was fully disbursed, but
because of implementation delays the loan closing date was extended
three times to December 31, 1990, with final disbursement on April 10,
1991.
The Borrower was highly involved in the drafting of this PCR.
Initially, the Federal Government's Agricultural Project Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit (APMEU) and the Sokoto State Agricultural and Rural
Development Authority (SARDA) prepared an extensive review of the
project, which served as a basis of discussions and the preparation of
this PCR. The joint March 1991 mission prepared Parts I and III of this
PCR with inputs from SARDA staff (particularly the Monitoring and
Evaluation Department). Part II of the PCR was prepared by APMEU, with
assistance from SARDA, and finalized by the Federal Department of
Agriculture (FDA). Consideration was given to the comments from FDA in
the drafting of this final version.
This report was prepared following a joint Bank and Nigerian
Government mission during the month of March 1991. It is also based on
the review of the WB Staff Appraisal Report, the loan and project agree-
ments, the Bank President's Report, supervision reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower and internal Bank memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2185-UNI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The Sokoto Agricultural Development Project was one of the four
statewide projects financed by the World Bank botween 1981-84 to support
food crop cultivation and put the country on a course to food self-
sufficiency. The SADP was built on the experience of the Bank-aided
Gusau Agricultural Development Project (GADP) which covered 4 percent of
the state. In addition to raising food production on some 1.9 million
ha of upland areas and 25,000 ha of lowland "fadama" areas, the project
sought to increase farm incomes of some 482,000 smallholder farm
families.  In line with the Government's agricultural strategy, SADP was
designed to provide a range of farm support services which included
extension advice and supply of fertilizer and improved seeds. The
project also included the construction of 1,700 km of feeder roads and
the establishment and improvement of rural water supplies through the
drilling of some 1,200 boreholes. The construction of about 1,100
buildings including staff houses, offices, farmers' service centers
(FSC), and workshops plus upgrading of existing fertilizer stores were
also part of the project. Given the very limited supply of local
managerial capacity, it was planned to strengthen state institutions by
providing institutional support through technical assistance and
consultant-executed studies. A project management unit (SAPMU), later
made the Sokoto Agricultural and Rural Development Authority (SARDA),
and an enlarged Farmers' Agricultural Supply Company (FASCO), were to be
established and provided with senior expatriate staff.
Implementation Experience
2.    At appraisal, the project was planned to be executed over a
duration of five years with a total cost of N274.3 million or US$498.7
million. The Bank loan of US$147.0 million was to finance 30 percent of
total project costs net of taxes. The project loan was closed in June
1990, after three annual extensions. Final disbursement was in April
1991. All of the US$147.0 million of the loan was disbursed. Loan
proceeds were reallocated three times during implementation to reflect
changes in project emphasis and financing requirements. Total project
costs at project completion are 52 percent of those estimated at
appraisal. Reduced counterpart funding in real terms and a lower supply
and distribution of farm inputs were responsible for these lower cost.
3.    After a delayed start, project implementation proceeded slowly.
Inadequate counterpart funding was the main cause and contributed to a
change of emphasis in project activities. As a result, the project was



- iv -
implemented over a period of eight years, compared with the five years
initially estimateR. Bank involvement was quite intensive throughout
pr-,ject implementaE;ion, and in particular, after the mid-term review in
1985. Also, after the review, there was increased supervision and
monitoring by the Federal Government's project support agencies namely,
the Federal Agricultural Coordinating Unit (FACU) and APMEU.
4.    Implementation started after a six-month delay in the fulfillment
of loan effectiveness conditions. Furthermore, because of lato recruit-
ment of key project staff, delays in providing office accommodation, and
inadequate counterpart funding by the Federal and State Governments, the
project became operational one year later in 1984. Declining oil prices
(66 percent in real terms for the 1980-88 period), coupled with fiscal
tightening and a very substantial devaluation of the Naira under the
government's Structural Adjustment Program (SAP), limited the avail-
ability of funds from Federal and State Governments. As a result, the
Bank had to increase its contribution to project costs and ended up
financing 57 percent of project costs compared with 30 percent estimated
in the SAR. The fertilizer procurement and distribution operations of
the Federal and State Governments impacted adversely on the project.
Heavily subsidized fertilizer irregularly supplied by an inefficient
government monopoly often led to scarcities in the market and created a
strong parallel market. In addition, the inability of the project to
raise FGN decreed fertilizer prices to at least recover costs led to
financially disastrous input distribution operations.
5.    The limited success of initiatives to increase upland rainfed crop
production saw a shift of focus and resources to the more profitable
small-scale irrigation in fadama areas and to infrastructure devel-
opment. It also led to new adaptive research trials under mixed-crop
conditions after the mid-term review. Consequently, about 54 percent of
project costs were devoted to these two activities, compared with the 37
percent estimated at appraisal. On the other hand, other project acti-
vities such as land use planning, research and extension, staff devel-
opment and monitoring and evaluation shrank to 15 percent of the project
costs, compared to the 25 percent estimated in the SAR.
Results
6.    The project surpassed its targets in small pump irrigation of
fadama land, in the construction of roads, and in the establishment of
rural water supplies. Fadama irrigation was extended to 40,000 ha,
compared to 25,000 ha estimated at appraisal. In making drinking water
available to remote villages, the project drilled about 3,500 boreholes
or almobt 200 percent more than estimated. The project built about
2,300 km of roads instead of the 1,700 km anticipated at appraisal. In
addition, the project successfully implemented several activities not
foreseen at appraisal, including the construction of 32 small dams and
the supply to the fadama areas of about 19,000 low-lift pumps under a
hire-purchase scheme.
7.    A poor incentive environment for agriculture existed for 6 of the
8 project years. Nonetheless, the performance of SADP in agriculture



. v -
has been satisfactory. Except for the sharp decline in the production
of rainfed crops (mainly sorghum and millet) due to droughts in 1983 and
1987, the overall impact of the project on agricultural production was
significant, although short of SAR expectations. Py project end, SADP
had completed the establishment of its extension service, and started to
implement systematically the agricultural research program. SADP
contributed to capacity building, by strengthening the managerial
capabilities of Nigerians. Monitoring and evaluation, however, was the
weakest part of its management. Data available is insufficient to carry
out a meaningful assessment of project impact on the financial returns
for producers. The computation of the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) has
been omitted for the same reason. (The draft PCR prepared together with
the Government had worked out a 16 percent ERR but this could not be
accepted with subsequent review of the data and analysis.)
Sustainability
8.    The state government has taken the step to make SADP into a p"--e
permanent institution. SARDA, which has assumed the role of SADP, has
now become the implementation arm of the State Ministry of Agriculture.
The commitment of the stAte government to SARDA and to increasing
agricultural production bodes well for project sustainability. Several
actions (listed in page 9 of this report) have been taken by SARDA and
the State and Federal Governments to improve project sustainability.
Some of these action.. are still in the process of being implemented.
Two Bank follow-up projects negotiated in Septembet 1991 will strengthen
agricultural extension and further expand fadama irrigation, both of
which will bolster medium term sustainability.
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.    The main lessons learned are the following:
(a)   combining such diverse activities as input distribution,
fadama irrigation, agricultural extension, feeder road
construction and rural water supply in a single project
proved to be too demanding for the implementing agency which
was still in its early stages of institutional development;
thus projects should be less complex, and the number of
components should be few;
(b)   the project risks related to counterpart funding by
governments should be assessed more carefully especially
when the main source of revenue is a commodity which has
highly volatile prices; and
(c)   activities that can be best performed by private enterprise,
and this includes road construction and maintenance and farm
input supply, should not be undertaken by the public sector;
and if there are state institutions undertaking such work
especially in respect of input supply these should be
liquidated or privatized at an early stage of the project.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT :ROJECT
(LOAN 2185-UNI)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name:     Sokoto State Agricultural Development Project
Credit No:        2185-UNI
RVP Unit:         Africa
Country:          Nigeria
Sector:           Agricultu:e and Rural Development
Subsector:        Area Development
2.    Background
2.1   During the 1970-82 oil boom, agricultural production in Nigeria
stagnated, growing at about 1 percent per year, while annual population
growth was around 3 percent. The contribution of the agricultural
sector to GDP fell drastically from 45 to 27 percent, and the sector's
share of exports dropped from 70 to 2 percent over the same period. The
performance of agriculture was, at that time, undermined by disin-
centives created by the oil boom, which included (a) the appreciation of
the exchange rate; (b) the enhanced profitability of investments in
nontradeable commodities and services; (c) rising wages in the public
sector and the urban private sector that drained labor from rural areas;
and (d) a corresponding downgrading of the profitability of agriculture.
Although the Government in the late 1970s provided subsidies to offset
high farm costs, these were insufficient to encourage farmers to expand
or even maintain production.
2.2   To achieve its goal of food self-sufficiency in the eighties, FGN
planned to increase food production by 3.5 percent per year during the
first half of the decade. The satisfactory achievements of the Gusau
Agricultural Development Project (GADP),1/ which covered only 4 percent
of the territory of Sokoto State, encouraged FGN to launch a state-wide
Agricultural Development Project (ADP).2/ Between 1981 and 1984, the
Bank agreed to assist two other similar ADPs in Kano and Bauchi to
foster agricultural production in northern Nigeria. Until late 1986, an
overvalued Naira and producer price controls served to create a poor
incentive environment for agricultural production. The Structural
I/    This project was one of the enclave ADPs which were judged satisfactory by the Project Perfornance Audit
Repotts No. 3975, Funtua, Gombe and Gusau (pp. 2-4) and No. 8557 Bida and Ekiti-Akoko (pp. 8-9).
Zi    The success of the enclave ADPs of Gombe, Cusau and Funtua led FGN and the Bank to attempt to
replicate these schemes on a large scale and support statewide ADPs. The use of expatriate staff to start
and operate the projects for a period prior to handing-over to Nigerian staff was an integral pait of this
concept.



- 2 -
Adjustment Program (SAP) of 1986 introduced a market-determined exchange
rate, and eliminated the commodity marketing boards. These policies
together with a ban on importation of major cereals (wheat, rice and
maize) helped in creating a more fevorable environment for increasing
agricultural production in Nigeria ane Sokoto State. While the 1986
reforms had an immediate positive impact on the prices of export
commodities, it took about two years for the prices of domestic food
crops to reflect the change in macro-economic conditions.
3.    Project Oblectives and Description
(a)   Prolect Objectives
3.1   The objectives of the Project as set out in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) were to:
(i) increase agricultural production;
(ii) improve farm incomes; and
(iii) rationalize and strengthen state institutions in the
agricultural sector, particularly the Sokoto Ministry
of Rural Development and Cooperatives.
The Project was aimed to benefit 482,000 farm families, each cultivating
an average of 4.0 ha.
(b)   Comnonents
3.2   The project components are as follows:
(i) Farm and Crop Development
This activity was aimed at improving cereal and vegetable
production in the State through improved farm practices with
enhanced extension, input supply and credit. The operation
of a farm management advisory service, the strengthening of
existing seed multiplication facilities, and the
establishment of an applied research program are the main
activities of this component;
(ii) Infrastructure Development
The project planned to construct a of 1,700 km of feeder
roads, to drill 1,200 boreholes for water supply and to
construct buildings to accommodate project activities and
staff. In addition, existing buildings, orage facilities
and rural markets were to be improved;
(iii) Institutional Support and Trainin2
The improvement of the managerial, technical and
administrative skills of project staff, as well as the
establishment of a monitoring and evaluation unit; the
training of staff and farmers, and the strengthening of



3
cooperativos unionsl and the creation of a Farmers'
Agricultural Supply Company; and
(iv) Technical Assistance
Assistance in project implementation through international
recruitment of staff and consu'Ltant services.
4.    Proict Design and Orfanization
4.1   Project preparation was initiated by the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture through APMEU, and was finalized in collaboration with Bank
staff. The level of preparstion was considered generally satisfactory,
meeting appraisal requirements. The conceptual foundation for the
projecc was clear and it was sl.ared and understood by all relevant
parties. In general, the scope and scale of the project seemed appro-
priate for the assigned objectives. Three technical packages were
proposed to enhance the traditional farming systems in the State. In
the rainfed areas, farmers could choose between a "basic" 3/ and an
"advanced" 4/ service package, with different levels of technologies.
The Fadama 5/ Crop Package ircorporated the "advanced" package and
improved water management techniques using water pumps for irrigation.
Proven technical packages tested under smallholder farmer conditions
were not available in the country when the project was prepared. An On-
Farm Adaptive Research (OFAR) component was therefore included in the
project. Finally, an Agricultural Supply Company was created to supply
agricultural inputs to farmers involved in the project.
4.2   Overall, the project design was complex, relative to the
absorptive capacity of the beneficiaries. There were too many compo-
nents (agricultural extension, on farm adaptive research, fadama
irrigation development, roads, water supply) to be implemented in such a
short period and with very limited managerial and technical skills.
Also the project design did not give due consideration to the time
needed for research to generate required technological packages and
introduce them at the farm level; in this sense, the design was ambi-
tious and led to high expectations in terms of farm input use by
farmers *£
3/    This is a relatively simple production package, applicable to existing traditional farming systems. With tho
use of fertilizers being ths main improvement, it was intended for about 70 percent of farmers.
A/    This program supplemented the basic service package and was designed for groups or individual farmers
displaying the management aptitude to handle more sophisticated techniques and cropping systems, including
pest management, higher use of fertilizers, weed control, and hybrid maize.
A/    These are traditionally irrigated lands in the river basins of Nigeria.
6/    Technology adoption rates were very low, as recorded in the foDowing SARDA reports: K. Singh and A.l.
MorUid Cr_oiing Systems. Technolosv Adoption and Asricultumal Production in Sokoto. Nigeria - 1984, K.
Singh and M. Chafe An Evaluation of Asricultuml Production. Technoloet Adoption and Crmooing Pattems
in Sokoto State - Anril. 1986 and S. Rajakutty Technolosy Adootion - The Changing Scene - (1983-19871 -
March. 1988.



-4-
4.3   The Federal, State and local governments, as well as the Project
Management (SARDA) and FASCO, had roles and responsibilities clearly
defined and understood by all parties.7/ Initially, the project was
managed by internationally recruited expatriates, and later the manage-
ment became entirely Nigerian.AI However, there was a significant gap
in skills between the expatriates and local staff. The internationally-
recruited staff did not always train adequately their Nigerian counter-
parts for the take-over of responsibilities. The project was also
unable to retain qualified Nigerian personnel, who were often enticed
away by the private sector after gaining experience with the ADP.
4.4   By 1985, the project was converted into an autonomous parastatal
authority (Sokoto State Agricultural and Rural Development Authority or
SARDA). SARDA has been made the implementation arm of the State Minis-
try of Agriculture.  FASCO failed as a commercial venture becapse of
poor management and FGN's fertilizer marketirg policy of high price
subsidies and public sec'tor monopoly.9/
5.    Proiot Implement:ation
5.1   General.  Project start-up was delayed, implementation was slow
and shortfalls in counterpart funding common. As a result, the project
took eight years (from 1982 to 1990) to complete instead of the five
years initially estimated. At the time the project was supposed to have
been completed (1987), only 57 percent of the loan or US$ 83.2 mil'.ion
had been disbursed, compared with US$ 147 million as estimated in the
SAR. A mid-term review of project implementation over the initial 33
months (1983-1985) was carried out by FACU.10/ This review recognized
the significant impact of the project within Sokoto State. The project
was by then fully-staffed, but a major restructuring was needed to
implement it successfully because the project was behind schedule and
was not receiving adequate counterpart funds.
5.2   ExoRenous Factors.  The decline in oil prices (66 percent in real
terms for the 1980-88 period), and the drastic devaluation of the Naira
especially under FGN's 1986 structural adjustment program (SAP), affect-
ed the ability of both the Federal and State Governments to provide
adequate counterpart funds. The Naira declined from US$1.00 - NO.55 in
1981 to US$1.00 L N8.00. Also, the arrival of the Military Government
in 1,83 and another coup two years later slowed down project implemen-
7/   The. scope and consequences of project implementation in Sokoto State were shared by the Bank and the
Bormwer, throughout the project life. In 1985, a Mid-term Review of the project was undertaken to
reconfirm and/or realign project activities consistent with the changing macro scene.
8/    Earlier ADPs were managed by expatriate staff usually provided by a foreign consulting firm. SARDA is
now 100% staffed by Nigerians.
2/   See chapters 5 and 6 of Nieeria: Fertilizer Loan (Loan No. 2345-UNI) Project Completion Report, No.
8499.
10/   See SARDA: Mid-Term Review of Project Implementation (April 1983-December 1985) by Federal
Agrcultural Coordinating Unit, Federal Department of Rural Development.



-5-
tation because of changes in key decision makers, particularly at the
state level.
5.3   The shortfall in counterpart funding was the most critical issue
during project implementation. The limited funds tended to be used in
high exposure areas such as roads, water supply and fadama irrigation at
the expense of agricultural services to uplands and drier areas. The
poor performance of agricultural programs in SARDA's Northern Zone could
be partly attributed to this.
5.4   The involvement of Federal and State Governments in the fertilizer
distribution system also affected this project adversely.ll/ Heavily
subsidized prices and the government monopoly in fertilizer supply and
distribution created scarcities in the market. lhe very high subsidy
and farmers' acceptance of new technology have led to a great demand for
fertilizer. There is saldom enough supply to match the demand, because
of Government's ineptness in distribution and significant leakages
across borders. Project reports state that total fertilizer use in the
State exceeded the amount officially distributed by FASCO, implying that
because of higher demand some fertilizer came to Sokoto State from other
States. However, one needs to take account of the proximity of Niger
Republic and the price differential which favors transfer of fertilizer
across the border. It is difficult to assess the extent to which these
leakages limited project impact, but there would clearly have been some
impact as domestic food crop prices fully responded to the SAP reforms
only in 1988 and prior to this there would have been less incentive for
farmers to pay for fertilizer at market clearing prices.
5.5   Implementation Achievements.  Performance of the project in terms
of input distribution was generally disappointing. 550,713 tons of
fertilizer were distributed in the eight years between 1982 and 1990,
compared to the SAR estimate of 548,628 tons of fertilizer to be
distributed during the first three years of the project. Similarly seed
supply was less than 15 percent of projections. Distribution of plant
protection chemicals was slightly above target.
5.6   The adoption rate for the technical packages was low for the
upland rainfed crops, particularly in the Northern Zone which suffers
from low and anreliable rainfall and land degradation. Consequently,
the project shifted focus and resources to the more profitable small
scale irrigation in the fadama areas and to infrastructure development.
5.7   SARDA established a successful extension system by reaching 93
percent of the SAR target of extension worker to farmer ratio, and by
designing various innovative adaptive research trials on mixed cropping
in collaboration with national research institutions. Adaptive research
unfortunately began late, but is making good progress.12/ Trials on
II/   See fertilizer distribution data in Table 4, Part III of this report.
12/   See Nienia: Adaptive Research a report prepared by the Agricultural Operations Division, AF4AG, of the
Wurld Bank, 1988.



-6-
increasing productivity of mixed cropping systems under rainfed condi-
tions have been introduced since 1987 and a network of demonstration
plots on mixed cropping now covers the entire state. This has lead to
the statewide adoption of mixed cropping of sorghum/cowpea or millet/
cowpea. The more extensive use of agro-chemicals is probably linked to
the growth of cowpea cultivation.
5.8   Costs and Financing.  The Bank increased its financing of the
project in response to the deterioration of the Nigerian economy with
the drop in oil prices. The total Bank contribution amounted to 57
percent compared with 30 percent estimated in the SAR. Total project
costs were estimated at US$498.7 million lin 1981. By 1990, the total
project costs amounted to only US$257.0 million, representing 52 percent
of the SAR estimate.13/ The lower costs reflect shortfalls in fertil-
izer distribution, limitation of project activities, particularly in the
Northern Zone of SARDA, the devaluation of the Naira and inadequate
counterpart funding.
5.9 Economic difficulties contributed to lower counterpart funding,
particularly at the state level. Most state funds come from the federal
revenues which during the period declined drastically with the fall in
oil prices. As a result, Sokoto State contributed less to the project
in real terms (US$53.6 million compared with US$155.3 million as
expected in the SAR). In terms of total project costs, SSG contributed
21 percent compared with 31 percent estimated in the SAR. The reduced
resources forced the project to emphasize high visibility components
such as the small scale irrigation in the fadamas, the rural feeder
roads program and village water supply. It is estimated that about 54
percent of the costs were devoted to these activities, compared with the
37 percent at appraisal. Other project activities such as land use
planning, research and extension, staff development, and monitoring and
evaluation thus suffered and were reduced to only 15 percent of the
project costs, compared to 25 percent estimated in the SAR. While Naira
devaluation did contribute to these variations from the SAR, it is
difficult to assess the exact impact.
6.    Proiect Results
6.1 Agricultural Development. Production increases were registered
for all major crops except sorghum. The increase in agricultural
production was mainly a result of higher farm yields (Table 7, Part III
of this PCR). Table l below summarizes the production increases for
major crops in the State. The overall impact of the project on
agricultural production in the State could be said to be significant as
the project was virtually the only supplier of inputs and extension in
the State. The effect of the change from adverse political and macro-
economic conditions to the subsequently favorable macro-economic
environment, however, cannot be discounted in assessing the project
impact.
13/   Details on project costs and fuiancing are given in Table 5, Part 111 of this report.



-7-
Table 1: Production Increases in Agriculture (in Thousands of Tone)
CROPS        Year 0   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
Sorghum        711     538    -89   -158   -143      8      -153   -134    24
Millet         345     540    212    -15    344    371    116    340    361
Maize          21       30      2      6      -2     13    -12    30        35
Groundnut      65       94      2     26      27     64    104    58        66
Cotton         14       13     6      -6      -6      2      15     41      47
Rice           56       40     9      -26    -18    -10      8      -8      22
Source:       PCR drafted by APMEU.  Although data on cowpea production were not
available, the assessment is that the results are comparable to
millet.
6.2   As shown in Table 1, there was a sharp rise in the produc-
tion of maize, millet, groundnut and cotton all due to increases in
yields.14/ Table 2 compares the SAR forecast increases in agricultural
production with the actual. Since the project was completed in eight
years instead of five, comparisons with the actual results at both five
and eight years is provided. Agricultural production came short of SAR
expectations in three out of six crops. Millet, an upland crop suited to
drier conditions and with low response to fertilizer, had production at
290 percent of SAR projections. For maize, however, the achievement was
disappointing, because of drier conditions and scarcity of fertilizer.
Table 2: Comparison Between Forecast and Actual Agricultural Production
Increases
CROPS         SAR        SAR 1/       Actual                     Actual
Year 0     Average         Average
Increase     Increase                  Average
'000 T    to Year 5    to Year 5                   Increase
to Year 8
'000 T       '000 T      Percentage                 Perce
of SAR       '000 T     ntage
of
SAR
Sorghum       711       108.32          28            26         -17.63       _
Millet        345       37.52          290           773         283.63       756
Maize         21         65.56         9.8            15          12.75       19
Groundnut     65        31.78          42.6          134          55.13       173
Cotton        14         6.94          1.8            6            14         202
Rice          56        29.22           -5            -           2.13         7
1/    Derived from Table 3 of SAR, Annex 1 Page 53.
14/ Data for agricultural production were provided by SARDA. Data from the Federal Office of Statistics were not
used because these were not consistent, and only provided average crop productions for the periods of 1974/6,
1979/81 and 1984/86.



6.3   During the past two decades, the State and Federal governments had
embarked on an ambitious program of dam construction with the intent of
using reservoirs to support large scale irrigation projects on fadama
lands and adjacent dryland areas. Over thirty dams have been construct-
ed in Northern Nigeria with the largest being the Bakolori Dam in Sokoto
State. The dams have significantly altered the floodplain hydrology.
As a consequence, recession agriculture on the floodplain has been
seriously curtailed, both in respect to area under cultivation and the
market value of crops being planted. For instance, in some places where
farmers previously cultivated wet rice, they were now obliged to culti-
vate sorghum or millet owing to the reduced flood water and the conse-
quent loss of residual soil moisture. Therefore, it is difficult to
dissociate the etfect of the dams on agricultural production and their
negative impact on project activities. The project's success in
promoting small-scale lift pump irrigation was a major positive impact.
The target of extending this type of agriculture to 25,000 ha was
exceeded by 15,000 ha. The program was enhanced by the introduction of
a hire-purchase scheme for lift pumps. The project sold more than
19,000 pumps and drilled 4,100 tubewells, activities not planned for in
the SAR.
6.4   Computation of the Economic Rate of Return (ERR).  All estimates
of agricultural production and economic benefits were provided by SARDA,
APMEU and FACU staff. Inconsistencies in the project management records
and reporting, and questionable data on agricultural output do not allow
a meaningful estimation, at project completion, of the farmer's actual
financial gains or of the economic returns to the overall investment.
(The draft PCR prepared together with the Government had worked out a 16
percent ERR, but this could not be accepted after subsequent review of
data and analysis.)
6.5   The project design over-estimated implementation capacity in spite
of 125 staff years of technical assistance and under-estimated high
risks involved in rainfed agriculture in low rainfall areas. It also
did not take into account the effect of dams on downstream seasonal
wetland cultivation. External factors such as a hostile macro-economic
environment and two changes of Government plus several changes in
Governors and Agricultural Commissioners adversely affected project
implementation and project achievements.
6.6   Results in Rural Infrastructure.  SARDA's performance surpassed
expectations in the areas of rural water supply, rural roads and irri-
gation of fadama lands. Table 7-A, Part III of this PCR, shows the
impressive results attained by SARDA in rural infrastructure. The
project completed 33 percent more roads than expected in the SAR. A
total of 2,339 km were built, compared with the SAR target of 1,700 km.
This achievement brought the State All-Weather Roads density to 8.0 km
per 100 square km, compared with the SAR target of 6.0 km per 100 square
km. For village water supplies, the project executed the drilling of
3531 boreholes versus the SAR objective of 1,200. The total number of
households benefiting from project executed rural water supplies is
estimated at about 1.7 million, compared with 1.0 million in the SAR.



The project also constructed 32 small earth dams not included in the
SAR.
6.7   Other Results.  Other long-term impact of SARDA's activities on
the country's agricultur-l sector, while difficult to assess
quantitatively, include the improvement of soil conservation and the
adoption of effective techniques of extension and research in Sokoto
State. Although, the project took time to establish its extension
service, and systematically implement on-farm adaptive research, the
agriculture sector is in a good position to draw benefits from these
activities as from now.
6.8   SARDA has proceeded to take its extension activities beyond food
staples. These now include all major farming systems and crops such as
groundnut, cotton, and vegetables (for which incentives have improved
significantly after SAP). Agro-forestry has also been integrated into
the extension activities. The project accelerated low-cost private
small-scale irrigation development by engaging private contractors to
drill inexpensive tube-wells employing low-capital technology. SARDA
closed down its own seed farms in favor of more efficient seed
production by private contract growers. It has also promoted more
sustainable technology for integrated livestock-crop production linked
to the increased use of draft power and organic fertilizers. The
project improved cost-recovery by selling inputs such as chemicals and
implements at full cost, although its fertilizer operations continued to
be based on a high price subsidy decreed by FGN and which has led to
financial disaster for the project's commercial operations.
6.9   SARDA contributed to the development of human resources by
enhancing managerial skills of the project staff and by offering
training to rural dwellers and to others involved in the project.
Moreover, SARDA contributed to capacity building by strengthening the
managerial capabilities of Nigerians through the use of advisors who
helped to train the local executives.
7.    Proiect Sustainability
7.1   Sustainability in Agricultural DeveloDment.  SARDA as an
institution is sustainable in the long-term because it has now become
the implementation arm of the State Ministry of Agriculture. Sokoto
State is committed to fund this institution to implement its development
policies, especially the ones related to rural development. The
forthcoming Bank-funded projects, the National Fadama Development
Project and the National Agricultural Technology Support Project, will
be implemented by SARDA for the Sokoto State components. The continued
decline of the Naira since the SAP of 1986 has resulted in higher
recurrent costs in Naira terms. Lower petroleum prices and virtually
stagnant state-level revenues have constrained FGN and SSG from funding
SARDA adequately. At the same time, there have been renewed efforts and
new pclicies and operations at the state and federal levels that would
enhance sustainability of project investments and institutions. The
Bank PCRs on Lafia and Ayangba ADPs have assisted in the formulation of



- 10 -
these efforts which started in 1988.15/ However, many of the benefits
from these actions will accrue gradually.
7.2   The additional actions taken to promote sustainability are as
follows:
*     The development of a program of on-farm adaptive research
with effective linkages with national research institutes
and the extension service.
*     The unification and technical upgrading of agricultural
extension to deliver technology to the majority of
smallholders in a cost-effective manner by reducing
duplication amongst state institutions and utilizing
qualified subject matter specialist and well-trained
extension agents.
*     Increased involvement of private traders and farmer
cooperatives in input distribution with progressive
withdrawal of FASCO.
v     SARDA assisting LGCs to develop capacity for routine road
maintenance, with rehabilitation, construction and major
annual maintenance being executed through private
contractors.
*     An adequate supply of quality planting material to extend
new technologies using contract growers with technical
inputs from the National Seed Service which is being
assisted by the Bank under a National Program.
Bank assistance to SARDA is expected to continue with the National
Fadama Development Project (NFDP) and the National Agricultural Tech-
nology Support Project (NATSP) which are anticipated to go to the Board
in FY92. The former would expand the fadama irrigation with SARDA
pursuing greater involvement of the private sector in drilling and
distribution of lift pumps. The latter would strengthen unification of
extension and on-farm adaptive research.
7.3   Sustainabilitv in Rural Infrastructure.  While waiting for LGCs to
progressively assume responsibility for maintenance of rural infrastruc-
ture components of the project, SARDA continues to undertake the mainte-
nance. These activities are a strain on SARDA budgets and many roads
and wells are deteriorating because of a shortage of funds. The project
could have tried to make the local recipients responsible for routine
maintenance of roads, wells and pumps. Given the low maintenance cost
of the hand pumps for rural water supply, properly organized user groups
are likely to be able to maintain these pumps at their own cost (N900 to
N650 per year, which on average will represent a financial burden of
151   See PPAR No. 5972 of the Lafia and Ayangba ADPs (Loan Nos. 1454-UNI and 1455-UNI), dated
December 16, 1985.



- 11 -
N1.00 per family per month). Future project design should include
provision for maintenance of rural water supplies by users. Similarly,
a road-user toll could be organized to cover the maintenance costs of
rural feeder roads which are estimated by SARDA staff to be only about
N8,000 (US$1,000) per kilometer per year.
7.4 Management and Peisonnel. SARDA depends on State funds to finance
its recurrent costs and is not able to resist pressuro from the Ministry
of Agriculture which has transferred several unwanted staff on to
SARDA's payroll. Consequently, SARDA headquarters has several personnel
that are under-utilized. Another issue is the continued existence of
FASCO. With the private sector having much easier access to foreign
exchange and the greater awareness of farmers of new technology, there
is no reason for FASCO to continue and it should either be liquidated or
sold to the private sector.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1   The Bank had intensive involvement throughout the project cycle.
This participation increased particularly after the mid-term review in
1985 and specialist supervision
missions 16/ on On-Farm Adaptive Research, Extension, and Small-Scale
Irrigation were undertaken. Bank monitoring was extended over the
project implementation period, with a total staff input of 216 man-days
in the field, for a total of 16 supervision missions averaging slightly
more than five days each.
9.    Borrower's Performance
9.1   Borrower performance during project implementation was constrained
by an adverse macroeconomic environment. There were always delays in
the fulfillment of the conditions stipulated in the loan agreement,
particularly in the case of provision of counterpart funding and
recruitment of personnel. However, the Borrower was supportive of
supervision missions and was open to suggestions for improvement.
10.   Proiect Relationship
10.1 The Bank/Borrower relationship was in general satisfactory, always
with the objective of conducting implementation properly. Only after
the takeover of the State and Federal Governments by the Military did
some tension occur, and project implementation stagnated for about 18
months. Nonetheless, decisions regarding loan closing date, extension
and reallocation of disbursement categories were conducted in an
atmosphere of mutual cooperation.
11.   Consulting Services
11.1 Of the 125 man-years of technical assistance from internationally-
recruited staff provided in the SAR, 75 man-years were used. Several
J§I   These arm Bank supervision missions focussing on a single component common to several projects.



- 12 -
consulting services were also contracted to undertake technical
assistance assignments. However, data on actual man-months utilization
of these services were not available. Nevertheless, SARDA staff
reported that on the whole they were satisfied with the consultants'
work.
12.   Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1 The project covenants were clearly stipulated. The SAR provided
an adequate frameworK for the Bank and the Borrower to implement the
project. SARDA's Monitoring and Evaluation Department was able to
provide some data for the preparation of this PCR, but was not able to
provide meaningful data on producer returns. The Borrower complied with
most project covenants, but delays in compliance usually resulted in
implementation delays (see Table 8, Part III).  In the future, project
documents such as the SAR should include key indicators (production and
implementation targets) to be met at different stages of project
implementation instead of only those at project completion.  This would
enhance implementation monitoring and review.
13.   Findings and Lessons Learned
13.1  The experience of this and other ADPs, is that the Bank should
avoid designing complex projects with too many components. The high
level of managerial skills needed to operate such projects successfully
poses problems of sustainability. The high costs of expatriate
management increases sensitivity to extended use of expatriates.
Setting up state-owned companies to undertake commercial activities
which can be better operated by the private sector should be avoided.
If already in existence, the Bank should avoid financing the operations
of such companies and in fact target these for liquidation or
privatization.
13.2 Bank appraisals should consider the risks posed by an adverse
macro-economic environment, especially on counterpart funding. Also
Bank supervision missions, should similarly be aware of constraints
imposed by macro-economic conditions and take early action to emphasize
economically justifiable activities that are less affected by adverse
macro-economic conditions.
13.3 The Bank should give due recognition to processes and procedures
of a country and its implementation climate. Accordingly, it should
allow more time for project implementation. Increasing agricultural
production under rainfed systems in the drier regions is an extremely
complex and difficult exercise. Expectations should thus be modest and
rigorously examined.



- 13 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROH BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Introduction
1.1   The draft PCR has been carefully studied.  We consider the
analysis in Part I and the statistical presentation in Part III
satisfactory and acceptable. To a very large extent the performance of
the Project has been adequately and correctly reflected in the report.
The following comments and observations are intended to
clarify/elaborate and/or make some amendments where necessary.
2.    Adequacy and Accuracy of Part III
2.1   Table 4-A Project Implementation.
(a)   Both the SAR target and the actual achievement on fertilizer
presented in Table 4-A are the expected incremental and the
actual incremental fertilizer distributed during the last
full year of project development. The actual total quantity
of fertilizer distributed at full development is 550,713
tons against the SAR target of 548,626 tons.
(b)   The total seed produced is 1,097 tons and not 197 tons as
presented in the table.
(c)   Table 4-A should also include achievements of the adaptive
research and extension as follows:
On-Station Research trials:                       86
On-Farm Research trials:                        338
Demonstration Plots:                          3,974
Small Plot Adoption Technique:              105,891
2.2   Table 4 B.
(a)   Building:  The achievements on staff houses and offices do
not iiclude figures on houses and offices inherited from the
old GADP. If these were included the total number of staff
houses and offices would come to 507 and 37 respectively.
During implementation the project management found that the
SAR target for office blocks and staff houses was over
ambitious as it failed to take into consideration the
already existing structures at the GDAP. The SAR provision
for buildings was consequently reviewed which led to the
reduction in the loan category for civil works by about
U.S.$16 million.
(b)   The total number of workshops built by the project is 9 and
not 897 as presented in Table 4 B.



- 14 -
(c)   To be comprehensive Table 4 B should also include the
following which although not provided for in the SAR, were
built by the project:
Home Economics Center          -     1
Generator Houses                     -     4
Staff Clinic                         -     5
Student Dormitories                  -     7
Guest Houses                         -     3
Sports Complex                       -     2
Nursery School                 ^     1
2.3   Table 4 C.  The SAR provision for SSG grant to Cooperative Unions
is N10 million and not N10,000 million as presented in Table 4 C.
3.    Comments on the Analysis in Part I
3.1   Project Design and Organization.  We agree with the PCR comment on
Page 4 that the SAR was ambitious on the adaptive research program and
on the adoption of improved technological packages. We would like to
add that given the lack of proven technical packages for the predominant
rainfed mixed cropping the SAR anticipated incremental production was
too high and unrealistic.
3.2   The project experienced shortfall in counterpart funding as stated
in the PCR paragraph 5.2 page 5. The main reason for the shortfall in
counterpart funding was the dramatic fall in oil prices and government
revenue during the period of project implementation. The government has
endeavored to meet its full financial commitment to the project in spite
of its tight budgetary allocation and foreign exchange problems.
3.3   The inclusion of the benefits from rural water supply and rural
feeder roads in the calculation of the ERR is a departure from the past
and is commendable. It is noticed that ERR figure (16 percent) is lower
than SAR.a/ However, there are so many aspects of the project achieve-
ments which are not quantifiable and not included in the calculation of
the ERR. For example, these include achievements in research, extension
and soil conservation. There -is need for the Bank, APMEU and the ADPs
to come together and develop standard indicators for calculating the ERR
so that the same indices are used across projects.
3.4   It has been observed elsewhere that the 12 Local Go-ernment Areas
in the most arid parts of Sokoto State, to the North of latitude 13
degrees which corresponds to SARDA's Northern Zone, have not felt the
impact of Sokoto ADP to any appreciable extent. As a result, a new
program of intervention is being contemplated by Government to address
the disparity in agricultural and rural development between this zone
and the rest of the State. Government is of the view that the design and
implementation of Sokoto ADP should have taken cognizance of the
peculiar environmental and resource poverty problems of the Northern
_/    See also para. 6.4.



- 15 -
Zone. The PCR appears to be silent on the problems of this zone which
the Project has not satisfactorily addressed. The shift of emphasis
from upland rainfed crop production to fadama and infrastructure
development, reported in the PCR on page 5 paragraph 5.4, would not have
been helpful to the preponderance of the estimated 250,000 rural
households in this zone, most of whom depend on rainfed agriculture.
4.    Sustainabilitv
4.1   The PCR has not addressed the implication of SARDA's very high
staffing level on project sustainability. It has been estimated that
SARDA currently has a staff strength of about 3,300, only a small
proportion of whom would be considered as field level extension agents.
The borrower is undertaking a consultancy study to provide better
understanding of the long term sustainability of ADPs in the Country.
5.    Bank Performance
5.1   The Bank's involvement was intensive and supportive throughout the
project life but especially after the Mid-Term Review in 1986. The
Bank's supervisory missions played active adviso y role in SARDA's
agricultural programs, especially in the rapid expansion of the fadama
program and the re-organization of the extension services along the
Training and Visit (T&V) lines from 1987 onwards. But the Bank's
procurement procedures were cumbersome and led to delays in the
procurement of some materials and equipment.
6.    Borrower's Performance
6.1   Government accepts the view that the downturn in the economy had
adverse effects on counterpart funding. The PCR, however, failed to
acknowledge the efforts of the borrower in providing the Project with
Development Loan Stock so as to make up for the short fall in counter-
part funding, thereby forestalling its possible adverse effects or,
project implementation.  Furthermor^., since project inception in 1982,
the Federal Government has provided the Project with Naira 55.85 million
against SAR provision of Naira 44.60 million. The PCR also failed to
acknowledge the extra funding.
6.2   It is obvious that both the Sokoto State Government and the
Federal Government actively supported the project throughout the period
of implementation. FACU and APMEU, two Federal Units established to
facilitate the implementation of the ADPs and to provide monitoring and
evaluation support to them, gave active support to SARDA during the life
of the project. The project management at various levels performed
satisfactorily during the period.
6.3   As for delays in start-up and slow execution of projects, this is
quite common to all the ADPs in the country. The delay is attributable
to the difficulty of fulfilling the various conditionalities for loan
effectiveness. Furthermore, more than one ministry, both at the State
and the Federal levels, are often involved and to bring all of them to
comply with the conditionalities is time consuming. The Bank is



- 16 -
requested to make this conditionalities less cumbersome, bearin& in mind
the borrower's circumstances. The slow pace of project execution is
mainly attributable to the procurement procedure involved. Recently,
the Bank has taken some positive approach in this direction by approving
a modified procurement document for use in the country. This is likely
to reduae the time involved in procurement and draw-down.
7.    Bank Borrower Prolect Relationship
7.1   There was mutual understanding and cooperation between the Bank
and the Borrower throughout the period of the project. This
understanding led to three extensions in the 'oan closing date, as well
as the reallocation of loan categories and the revision of SAR
provisions on some components.
Departa,ent of Agriculture
Federal Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources
28th June. 1991



_ 17 -
PART III  STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Year       Loan
Purpose               of       Amount             Comments
Credit/Title                                        Approval   (US$M)
First GeneratLorn ADP
Loan 1092 - Funtua          Agricultural Development      1974        29.0    Satisfactory. Demand for
l ______________________________                                     ___________   inputs   above   appraisal.
Loan 1099 - Gusau           Agricultural Development      1974         19.0    Satisfactory. Appraisal
i _____________________________                                      ___________  objectives   exceeded.
Loan 1164 - Gombe           Agricultural Development      1974        21.0    Satisfactory
I ________________________________   ______________________________              im plem entation
Loan 1454 - Lafis            Agricultural Development     1977         27.0    Unsatisfactory.
Loan 1455 - Ayangba          Agricultural Development     1977         35.0    Unsatisfactory.
Loan 1667 - BIDA            Agricultural Development      1979         23.0    Satisfactory.
Loan 1668 - llorin          Agricultural Development      1979         27.0    PCR under preparation.
Loan 1838 - Oyo North       Agricultural Devclopment      1980         28.0    PCR under preparation.
Loan 1854 - Ekiti Akoko     Agricultural Development      1980         32.5    Unsatisfactory.
Second Generation ADP
Loan 2029 - ATAP            Agric. Technical Assistance   1981        47.0    PCR under rreparation.
Loan 1981 - Bauchi          Agricultural Development      1981       132.0    PCR under preparation.
Loan 1982 - Kano            Agricultural Development      1981       142.0    PCR under preparation.
Loan 2185 - Sokoto          Agricultural Development      1982       147.0    Present PCR.
Loan 2436 - Kaduna          Agricultural Development      1984       122.0    On-going.
Loan 2733 - MSADP I         Agricultural Development      1986        162.0    On-going.
Loan 2741 - South Borno     Agricultural Development      1986        25.0    On-going.
Loan 2988- MSADP II         Agricultural Development      1989        85.2    On-going.
Credit 2035 - MSADP IlIl    Agricultural Development      1989        100.9    On-oing.
Projects approved before 1984 are all uompleted. Kaduna, MSADP I and South Borno are on-going projects.



- 18 -
Table 2: Prolect Timetable
Item                   Date Planned               Actual Date
Identification                                       1976
Preparation                                          1977-1979 .1/
Preappraisal                                         October 1979i /
Appraisal                                            October 1980
Loan Negotiatiuns      ___                           June 22 1981
Board Approval           _                           June 17 1982
Loan Signature            June 23 1982               January 4 1983
Loan Effectiveness        November 1 1982            April 28 1983
Completion                December 31 1986           December 1990
Loan Closing              June 30 1987               December 31 19902/
Table 3: Loan Disbursement
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
US$ Millions                                        ____     l
FY83   FY84   FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89          FYE3      FY91
Appraisal Estimate     44.6   71.8   94.9   122.0   147.0                        l                  l
Actual                  4.0    24.C   41.8    65.6    83.2    98.9    123.4    146.5    147.0
Actual as a percent      9      33      44      54       57       67       84       99.7      100
of Estimate            perce   perce   perce   percent  percent  percen   percen   percent   percent
nt     nt      nt                         t        t
Date of Final                    _                                                          Apr 10
Disbursement          _                                                                      1991
1/     The project proposal was prepared by the GADP planning section assisted by specialist
consultants and reviewed by a Bank mission in October 1979.
2/     Third Extension.



- 19 -
Table 4: Prolect Imolementatlon 1/
Actual
S.A.R.           Actual           Over
Components/items                     Units               Target     Achievement          Target (  Remarks
L_______________       percent)                     l
A. Agricultural Development
Extension Service
Extension Agents                  No                    650              512              79   Incremental
Agricultural Assistants           No                    293              203              69   Incremental
Agricultural Superintendent       No                     60                35             58   Incremental
Agricultural Officer              No                     74                48             65   Incremental
Ratio: Assisted farmer/
Extension Agent                   No                    740              800              93
Assisted farmers                '000s                   482              410              85
In_ut SUDDIV (annual)
Fertilizers (incremental)       '000s                   210                97             46   At Project
l _____________________________                                                    _____________    C om pletion
Improved Seeds                   tons                 4,500             1,097             24   At Project
________     _______________                     _____________   Com pletion
Plant Protection Chemicals       toris                   50                52            104   At Project
Completion
Low-lift pumps                    No                       -          19,193                   Total Over
__                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~project Life
Soil Conservation                 No                      1                 1            100                     l
and Plannina Unit            _
Seeds Production
Program_ L                                                                                                       l
GADP Expansion                    No                      1                 1            100
Seed Multiplication Unit                                                                                        -||
Seed Mult. Farms Establ.          No                      3                 1             33   Three
established, two
closed down
Seed Product. Project Farms      tons                 1,200              132              11
Seed Product. Outgrowers         tons                 3,300              500              15
Anolied Research
Soil Testing Laboratory            No                      1                 1            100
Applied Research Centers           No                      2                                0
a/ See also Part II, paras. 2.1 {c} and 2.2 (c).



- 20 -
Table 4: Proiect ImolamentatLon (continued)
Actual
S.A.R.     Actual       Over
Components/Items           Units     Target  Achievement   Target (         Remarks
percent)
B. Infrastructure Development
Roads Construction             Km        1,700         2,339        138  Up to 12-31-1990
Buildings:                      No        1,100           194          -  Units not comparable
- Staff Houses
- Offices                       No         210            15          7
- FSCs                         No           68            95        140
- Upgrading Existing Stores     No          28           n.a.          -  Not Available
- Stores                        No          40            70        175
- Workshops                     No           8             9        113
Wholesale Market Improvement    No          32              0          0
Rural Water Supply: Boreholes   No        1,200         3,531        297
Irrigation: Earth Dams          No            -            32          -  Not in SAR
Irrigation: Tubewells           No                      4,100          -  Not in SAR
C. Institutional Support
Cooperative Strengthening:
- Recruitment of Union Managers  No           19             0          0  Not Implemented
- Recruit.of Prim. Societies     No         200              0          0  Not Implemented
Secretaries
- Storage Capacity Construction  Tons    10,000              0          0
- SSG Grant for Unions         N million      10             0          0  _
Establishment of Monitoring &
Evaluation
- Establishment of CMES          No            1             1        100
- Establishment Zonal M&E Unit   No            4             4        100
Training                          No            1             0          0
- Establishment of Media
- Demonstration Farms            Ha           20             0          0  Demonstration farm
at Zuru established
and then abandoned
- Training Center, Bunza         No            1             1        100  because of mobile
training units
D. Technical Assistance           Man         125            75         60
Internationally recruited staff  years
Consultancies                   Man        108            n.a.             Not available
Months



- 21 -
Table 5: Prolect Costs and Financina
A. Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate 1/         Actual 2/          Percentage
Categiory Item                          .-I
(USSMillions)     (       (US$Millions)     (     of Estimate
percen                   perce
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  t)               n t)
Project Management                       17.3         3           48.25       19           265
Staff Development                        21.3         4             6.37       2            28
Land Use Planning                         3.6         1             3.9        2           103
Applied Research & Seed                   8.0         2             4.91       2            58
Multiplication
Monitoring/Evaluation                     7.3         2             5.26       2            68
Extension                                52.5        10           22.15        8            40
Fadama Development                       18.5         4             3.1        1             16
Engineering & Mech. Serv.                21.1         5           40.77       16           184
Road Construction                        46.4         9           21.42        8            44
Road Maintenance                         24.0         5             2.08       1              8
Water Supply - Boreholes                 22.4         4            50.73      20           198
Marketing & Cooperatives                  8.0         2             0.04       -            0.5
FASCO Costs and Fertilizer &            145.4        28           48.02       19            30
Chemicals
(Non Incremental Costs)                 (36.5)      (7)             -          -                i
Physical Contingencies                   20.0         4                -              -
Price Contingencies                     119.4        24             -          -
TOTAL COSTS                            498.7       100           257        100             52



- 22 -
S. Project Financing
Cateaory Item            Anralal              A ralal          AcAntrul u           Actual               ercent of
_ _ _ _  . .Estimate                    Eutmno_                      _                          Estimate
(US$ millions)            (          (US$ millions)           (percent)
percent)
FGN                                141.1               28                46.2                18 3/              33
SSG                                155.3               31                53.6                21 3/             35
Farmers                            55.3                11                10.2                 4                 18
IBRD                               147.0               30               147.0                57                 100
Total                             498.7                100              257.0                100                52
1/      Mission estimate based on the SAR, excluding price contingencies. All non-incremental costs have been
deducted from FASCO costs.
2/      Based on information supplied by the project's finance office converted to USS using the yearly average exchange
rates 11982-901 published by the IMF (see IMF Financial Year Book) and the M.U.V. published by the World Bank.
3/      Based on information supplied by the project's finance office converted to US$ using the IMF exchange rates (1982-
90).
4/      Including contingencies.
Table 6: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
SAR
Estimate                     Revised           Revised           Actual
Category               (US $Million)        (        (US $Million)     (US $Million)     (US$Million)
percent)
Civil Works                            28.0         19              27.5               12.0             11.8
Vehicles, tractors, heavy
equipment, road
equipment and spare parts              48.3         33              38.3               48.0             52.0
Salaries and allowances,
international staff and
consultants                            23.0         13              23.0                15.0            12.8
Rural water supply,
contracted borehole drilling             9.0         6              28.8               47.0             50.7
Chemicals and other farm
inputs                                 23.9         16              23.9                19.0            18.8
Operating expenses                     14.8         10                5.5                2.0             0.5
TOTAL                                 147.0         100            147.0              147.0            147.0



- 23 -
Table 7: Prolect Results
Percentage
Appraisal                                 of
Estimate .1         Actual -         Achievements
(a) Agricultural Development
Rainfed Crops Area ('000s Ha)
* Sorghum                                     1,309               222               17
- Millet                                      1,029               493               48
-Maize                                        120                 31               26
- Cowpea                                      1,000               167               17
- Groundnut                                    276                145               53
- Cotton                                       100                 64              64
- Rice                                         101                 20              20
Total Area                                   3,935               1,142              29
Rainfed Cros Yields (Kg/Ha)
- Sorghum                                      700              1,808              258
- Millet                                       400              1,783              446
-Maize                                       1,290               1,951             151
- Cowpea                                       340               1,050             309
- Groundnut                                    500               1,045             209
- Cotton                                       307                838              273
- Rice                                       1,220              1,575              129
Appraisal         Estimated at        Percentage
Estimate         Closing Date            of
(b) Infrastructure Development Roads                                                   Achievements
- Total all weather roads (Km)          8,190 1/               8,243 3/              133
- All weather roads density (Km/1 00km2)  6.0 1/                 8.0 1/              133
Rural Water SuPolv
- Number of boreholes                   1,200                   3,531                294
- Villages served                       1,200                   3,531                294
- Number of households
benefitted (in million)                1.0                    1.7 Al              170
(e) Training
- Trained farmers                                            200,000 F
- Management courses (staff)                                   2,060
- Overseas and in-country
(staff)                                                      814
- Externslonists                          .                     1,253
1/     As from SAR at full development, in 198'.
2/     In 1989, data published by SARDA Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, see Table 4. Data on actual yields is more Indicative than
definitive.
3/      Calculated on the basis of the state's road network and the total state area of 102,500 km'
4/      Assuming one borehole serving one village with an average of 500 households/village.
5/      Absuming 1,992 film shows and a presence of about 100 farmers per show.



- 24 -
Table 8: Status of Covenants
Loan/Project Agreed
Covenant Number                            Subject/Covenant                              Status
Effectiveness
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized by all
LA 6.01 (a)       necessary governmental action.                                Complied
LA 6.01 (e)       SARDPC, SADPEC and SAPMU have been duly established.          Complied
A draft management contract has been prepared by SSG for the
LA 6.01 (f)       management and supply of staff to SASCO.                      Complied
SSG has established a project recrruiting agency satisfactory to the
LA 6.01 (g)        Bank and the Borrower.                                       Complied
Financina/Funding                                                                  Inadequate and
LA 3.02          The Borrower shall make adequate budgetary provisions for and pay    untimely
into SAPMU's commercial bank account at least three months in
advance quarterly contributions for the project.
LA 4.0 (a)        It is the mutual intention of the Borrower and the Bank that no other
external debt shall enjoy any priority over the loan.        Complied
LA 6.01 (b)        A bank account has been opened for SAPMU and an initial deposit of
N3.0 million separately paid in by SSG and the Borrower.     Complied
LA 6.01 (c)       SASCO to be established with an initial paid up capital of N2.0  Not complied.
million. of which the Sokoto Cooperative Federation has to contribute   Waivad by World
N1.0 million and SSG N1.0 million.                           Bank
L.A. 601 (d)       Overdraft facilities covering three months of SAPMU's expenditures
up to N5.0 million with SSG fully guaranteeing SAPMU payment
obligations to be established with a commercial bank.        Complied
PA 2.03(vi)        SSG to make adequate provision for SCF to meet the credit needs of
farmers participating in the project.                        Not complied
PA 2.03(vii)       SSG to establish a Fadama Development Fund with an initial deposit    Not complied;
of N900,000 covering the first year grant disbursement to farmers  fedama component
revised after MTR
PA 2.03(b)(ii)     SSG to cause SAPMU to prepare and send to the Bank and Borrower
by September 30 of each year an action plan detailing investment and
project activities                                           Complied up to
1988
PA 2.03 (c)        SSG to cause SAPMU to furnish to the Ministry of Agriculture and the
Bank the annual budget proposed for the project approved by  Complied; some
SARDPC not later than four months before commencement of the  delays occurred for
fiscal year.                                                 presentation
PA 2.05(b)        SSG to provide SASCO in advance not later than September 1 of
each year with the equity contribution of SASCO's working capital for
not less than N2.0 million during the first two years of the project.  Not complied
PA 2.05(d)        SSG to review with Borrower and Bank annually SASCO's cost
recovery policies and practices.                             Complied
PA 2.08          SSG to provide a grant aggregate amount of N500,000 to the
working capital of cooperative and primary unions participating in the    Not complied
project.
PA 3.01          SSG to cause project agencies to maintain records adequate to reflect
their operations and financial conditions.                   Complied
PA 3.02(i)        SSG to cause project agencies to have their accounts and financial  Complied. Auditors
statements for each fiscal year audited by independent auditors.  always submitted
unqualified reports



- 25 -
Table 8: Status of Covenants
(continued)
Loan/Project Agreed
Covenant Number                             Subject/Covenant                             Status
PA 3.02 (ii}       SSG to cause project agencies to furnish to the Bank their financial   Not satisfactory
statements not later than four months after the end of each fisoal
year.
Procurement/Sulv                                                                                        l
The Borrower to ensure that Sokoto State receives adequate and  Not satisfactory
LA 3.03           timely amount of fertilizer for the oroject.
LA 3.04           Tha Borrower to cause SASCO to be appointed a licensed buying
agent of the Nigerian Grains, Groundnut and Cotton Boards
operating in Sokoto State.                                   Not Compliad
Procurement of goods and civil works to be procured under    Complied with
PA Schedule 1 A(2)     contracts awarded in accordance with the World Bank guidelines  frequent problems
for procurement.                                             of interpretation
For goods and works to be procured under ICB, SSG should
PA Schedule 1A(2)     forward not later than 60 days all related documents.         Complied with
delays
Oraanization/Staffing
/Consultants        The Borrower to review, not later than January 1, 1985, with the    Partially complied
PA 3.05           Bank and SSG plans prepared by SAPMU for the continuation and
organization of the project after its completion.                               l
PA 2.01 (e)        SSG to cause the establishment for each zone of a Zonal
Agricultural Development Advisory Committee (ZADAC)          Complied
PA 2.02           SSG to establish a SASCO with membership functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.  Complied
PA 2.04(a)         SSG to establish a recruitment agency to supply senior technical,
financial, engineering and commercial staff for SAPMU.       Complied
P.A. 204(b)        SSG to employ a management agency for the management and
supply of staff to SASCO.                                    Complied
PA 2.05(a)         SSG to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment be satisfactory to the Bank  Complied
and the Borrower.
PA 2.13           SSG to acquire not less than 100 ha for the establishment in the
Western Zone of a Seed Multiplication Farm.                  Complied
PA 2.14(b)         SSG to prepare by December 31, 1984 detailed plans for the long-   Not complied
term maintenance of feeder roads and rural water supply in the  although attempts
project area.                                                have been made
Monitorina and Others
PA 2.09(b)(i)       SSG to cause SAPMU to maintain records adequate to record and
monitor the progress of the project.                         Not satisfactory.
PA 2.09(d)         SSG, not later than six months, after closing date, should submit
I to the Bank a Project Completion Report.                    Complied            I



- 26 -
Table 9: MiesIon Date
No. of              Field          Speolalizeti3ns      Performance                                Type of
Mission          Month/Year            Persons            I'lan Days       Represented I/         Status 2/        Rating Trend          Problems       |
Ident,/Prep 5/        1977/80
Appraisal             Oot. 80                5                  120              b, 0, d, 0 
Progress              Nov. 80                                   126             a. b. c. d, o
Review 6/             Feb. 83
Supervision 1          May 83                2                   6                  a, o                 3                    1                 FM
Supervision 2        March 84                3                   12                 a, o                 3                    1                  F
Supervision 3         Oct. 84                2                   12                 a, d                 3                    1                  T
Supervision 4          Fe. 85                3                   9                  a, o              Review
Mission,
rephasing
________________     ______________                                                                     recostingosting
Supervision 5          July 85               1                   9                   b                  3 7/
Supervision 6          Oct. 85               2                   6                  b, o              Review
mission,
agricultural
extension
Supervision 7         June 86                3                   18               a. b, d                4
Supervision 8        August 86               3                   9                  a.               u Thematic
supervision
agricultural
extension
Supervision 9          Sept. 86                3                  21                 a, o                  4
Supervision 10          May 87                 3                  18                a. a, d                2                               _               11
Supervision 11          Feb. 88                3                  18                a, b c                 2
Supervision 12          Oct. 88                2                   8                   a              Thematio
supervision
adaptive
research
Supervision 13          June 89                3                  12                b, c, a                2           _
Supervision 14          Oct. 89                1                   6                   a              Thematio
supervision
adaptive
research
Supervision 15          Feb. 90                5                  26               a. b, d, o          Thematic
supervision,
small irrigation
Supervision 16          May 90                 3                  27                 a, o                  2
t/        a  Agriculurifit b * Agricultural Econorist c - Financial Analyst d * Irrigation Engineer; o * Other
2/        1 - problem free o rinnor problem; 2 - moderate problems; 3 * rnajor problems; 4 - critical situeton
3/        1 * imnproving; 2  - stationery; 3 - deteriorating
4/        F - Financial; M * Management; T * Technical
6/        The project was prepered bv local staff with the assistance of consultants and periodieclV essisted bV the Bank.
e/        Staff we  of several short progre  review rriions before loan effectiveness.
7/        New form 690 in use that shows rating for overall status (I 985:
1 - no significant problems;
2 - moderate problems;
3 - major problems ladequate attention1
4 - major problm (not adequatelV addreedl



- 27 -
Thbl lOt STAWFF INPUTS
34IAPA047   L21850
SOKOTO STATE ARICtJL         l930          30.9                                               .5    31.4
1981           2.8       58.4           1.4                    39      68.5
1982                                   17.2                    1.7    18.9
1983                                                20.4               20.4
1984                                                14.7                14.7
1985                                                25.7               25.7
188                                                19.0        .2    19.2
1987                                                23.6        .2    23. 4
1988                                                27.4               27. 1
198                                                 28.9               28.9
1990                                                20.6               20.9
1991                                                17.9                17.9
1992                                                  .1                 .1
__a                  _         _    S           u.  .u.
Total for the Project Id 3NIRPAG47                                 33.7        58.4          18.6        198.6      6.5     315.8
Grand Total for all Project Ids                                     7.6       274.2          35.0        803.3    27.1   1,016.2
Excludes tIsm sPent by Yowg ProfessIonals



MAP



IBRD 15A2AR1
.  .n- Koni                                         -                                                         NIGERI
>   ,_-<  _-     glel  @"'   -'-                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N I G E R I A
o.....                           O'          , WA [9A.AWA                    ,°-                                             SOKOTO  AGRICULTURAL
O  f/ N O R T H E R                                                                                    N                                DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
r    ~        ~~~~ I A  AA I            Gdw/           _          /\                               ti
orrO  *                                        N                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED
G'don Mod,    '                       >                                                                                             Program   Monogennvol  Unmt HeodqUoore,s
es                                            ...... (                                                          Zone HeadqLorters
|                (:lr( ;T      - _       wtfjXr~j~~e.** *i_  se**                                 AAW SeAviCe Centers
SQKOTO                         Z f  ,yn~i.(NE                                                                       Feeder Roads
STATE                      h,...                                                                                             )L.      4,12 KEISTING
k.or                                          G Onto A onlt.rol Nvl-V i -irt F-ioc, (Lo-n 1009- UNI)
N  A  T A i A f A                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS
M A I A I A                                                                 Double toG,e PGved
k,,A U R A  ~           -     Single Lane Paved
Y  B c  Tumto                                           N AW   0 C) A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AllI Season, GroVel
EQGUINEA                                                                                                           -_-- <9  it-s+ -i'-- Sea_ sonlo Graovel
C  ~~~~~~~<  ~~~~~~SoI~~~~~~~~i~~~~  *  MN  0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~*e.-e  Npsosnaed Roods
4~Ai,port
7>     -  -  ~~Locol Government Soundorres
A 3 T    R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-State Bo0-dor,es
0                   u  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                                                     lI-Inte-oar,onol BoUndaries
0oIfe ~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                  U- AUZone Boundories
A N K Ab:'Goba/Zri
_ /                                                                                                         Z Q-"N'x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z0/f                     .k
~~~~>r4o   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ~~~~NAM'jDA
Arip ndol.t                          5 C         N
JM A~          NEL/BreIr                                                                                                             KADUNA  STATE                                              -
~~r 3i~~Vi1   ,~~~ -'      NIG ER    S TA TE                                                                                                       G
D'IVORE                                                                                  NOTE: Sokoto Staste bovndclriesho-n(                                                       ~         ~tso   s, 
on this map doa not rgfect the                                                - TMN   ANRAS
new 1991 boundaries.                                                          - ROADS BUILT BY GACt a
Ab.j                   4                 i    N
-~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~0                            20      do    00  do    tolRMtLES                                     RVR
0  CA ERGON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OA GVRMN
01/f of Ooir'o
EQ   UINEA                                                                            atsJ A  b.yy,rs                                                                           20_ _JO____
5*                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEBRIUARY 1992



