Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3304-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NIGERIA
SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 24, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclose1 without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Naira (N)
US$1          =  Naira 0.55
Ni            =  US$1.818
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and
measures used in this report are metric:
1 metric ton     = 0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha ) = 2.47 acre
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 mile
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
AlI        -    Agricultural Assistant
ADPs       -    Agricultural Development Projects
APMEPU    -    Agricultural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning
Unit (Kaduna)
ASP        -    Advanced Service Package
BSP        -    Basic Service Package
CMES       -    Central Monitoring and Evaluation Section
CSDTS      -    Central Staff Development and Training Section
FCS        -    Farmer Credit Scheme
FDRD       -    Federal Department of Rural Development
FCN        -    Federal Government of Nigeria
FMA        -    Federal Ministry of Agriculture
FO         -    Field Overseer
FPDS       -    Fadama Planning and Demonstration Section
FSC        -    Farm Service Center
GADP       -    Gusau Agricultural Development Project
LBA        -    Licensed Buying Agent
LGA        -    Local Government Area
LGC        -    Local Government Council
MA         -    Managing AGent
MANR       -    Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (Sokoto State)
MLG        -    Ministry of Local Government (Sokoto State)
MOF        -    Ministry of Finance
MOFEP      -    Ministry of Finance and Economic Plaining
MR:DC      -    Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperatives (Sokoto State)
MTU        -    Mobile Training Unit
NC:B       -    Nigerian Cotton Board
NG.B       -    Nigerian Grains Board
RWS        -    Rural Water Supply
SADP       -    Sokoto Agricultural Development Project
SADPEC    -    Sokoto Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee
SCIF       -    Standard Conversion Factor
SLAR       -    Side-Looking Radar
SAPMU      -    Sokoto Agricultural Project Management Unit
SARDPC    -    Sokoto Agricultural and Rural Development Policy Council
SASCO      -    Sokoto Agricultural Service Company
SCF        -    Sokoto Cooperative Federation
SLAR       -    Side Looking Airborne Radar
SRRtBDA    -    Sokoto Rima River Basin Development Authority
SSG        -    Sokoto State Government
ZADAC      -    Zonal Agricultural Development Advisory Committee
ZMES       -    Zonal Monitoring and Evaluation Section
ZRCT       -    Zonal Road Construction Team
ZRMU       -    Zonal Road Maintenance Unit
F This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






NIGERIA
SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND ...........................................................  I
A.  Project Origin    ................ ..........................      1
B.  The Agricultural Sector ...... ...........................         1
II.   THE GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT          ......     ...      4
A.  Objectives and Experience to Date .......................          4
B. Lessons of Experience ............. ........ . .... ....            5
III. THE PROJECT AREA..                                                       6
A.  Physical and Social Infrastructure        ..                       6
B. Socio-Economic Features                  ..... 7
C.  Agricultural Institutions and Support Services          .          9
I;V. THE PROJECT                  ............12
A.  Objectives and Summary Description ..... .................    12
B.    Detailed   Features   .... .......................... . -..o ............ .  13
C. Cost Estimates .20
D.  Proposed Financing ... ..         ................... ..............    22
E. Procurement ........................                               24
F. Disbursements .......24
G.  Budgeting, Accounts, Audit and Reporting             .            25
H.  Implementation Schedule and Annual Review   .         .25
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION . ....          ....................    26
A. Organization and Management               .....                    26
B.  Staffing and Training ...... . . ....                             28
C. Input Distribution                  .....30
D.  Cooperative Development and Farm Credit         .....             32
E.  Monitoring and Evaluation                 . .       ...           33
F.  Post-Project Development   . .... . .                             34
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank appraisal
mission comprising messrs: Saadat, Miller, des Bouvrie, Ludwig (Bank),
Surinder Singh, Jackson (Consultants) who visited Nigeria in October 1980.
Irn addition Mr. Ranganathan contributed to the report at Headquarters.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
VI.   TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS .....................   34
A.  Rainfed Farming .......      ..................................    34
B.  Fadama Development ........................................    36
C.  Feeder Roads .......      .....................................    37
D.  Rural Water Supply ......      ................................    39
VII.  MARKET PROSPECTS, MARKETING AND PRICES ......................   40
A.  Market prospects .       .......................................    40
B.  Marketing ...............................................   40
C. Prices          ..................  ........ .................    42
VIII.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ..........................................    43
A.  Financial Implications for Farmers ......................   43
B.  Financial Implications for Governments ....      ..............   45
C.    Cost  Recovery   ...................................................  45
IX.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ...........................................   46
A.  Project Benefits .........................................   46
B.  Economic Rate of Return .................................   47
C.  Sensitivity Analysis and Project Risk ....      ...............   48
X.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........... ...........   48
TABLE IN TEXT
Table 1   Summary of Project Costs .21
Table 2  Summary Financing Plan .23
Table 3     Summary of Financial and Economic Farmgate Prices             43
Table 4     Summary of 4.0 ha Farm Budgets .43
ANNEX 1
Table 1     Upland Crop Recommendations       ..51
Table 2     Upland Crop Development Projections    .        .52
Table 3     Upland Crop Production Projections    .        .53
Table 4a    Wet Season Fadama Crop Recommendations   .       .54
Table 4b    Irrigated Fadama Crop Recommendations    .       .55
Table 5     Fadama Crop Development Projections         .     .56
Table 6     Fadama Crop Production Projections             .              57
Table 7     Agricultural Manpower Demand and Supply   .       .58
Table 8     Bank Lending for Agriculture in Nigeria   .       .59



- iii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
ANNEX 2
Table 1    Summary of Project Costs ...............................   60
Table 2    Project Costs by Financing Category ..* . ................   61
Table 3    Detailed Financing Plan ........    ........................    62
Table 4    Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loans   .......   63
Table 5    Total Fertilizer Requirements and Costs                   64
ANNEX 3
Table 1    Summary of Economic Analysis ................ ............   65
Table 2    Sensitivity Analysis . ........ .   ........... . .. ................. .   66
ANNEX 4    Related Documents Available in the Project File ........   67
Charts
22267      Project Organization
ZAIPS
IBRD 15065R1 - IBRD assisted Agricultural Projects
IBRD 15424   - Sokoto Agricultural Project Zone






NIGERIA
SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. Background
A. Project Origin
1.01      The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) has requested World Bank
assistance for a statewide agricultural development project in Sokoto State.
The project will be implemented over five years, and is estimated to cost
US$498.7 million.  At full development, the project is aimed to increase the
productivity, incomes and standard of living of about 482,000 rural families
in the State by providing a range of farm support services in association with
infrastructural improvements and institutional modifications.
1.02      The proposed project originated as a follow-up of the Gusau Agricul-
tural Development Project (GADP), which has been fully disbursed.   A progress
report on GADP is contained in Chapter II. The statewide project proposal
wias prepared by the GADP planning section, assisted by specialist consultants.
Project preparation was reviewed by a Bank mission in October 1979. The
project was appraised in October 1980.
B. The Agriculture Sector
1.03      Recent macro-economic developments and policy issues are discussed
in the latest Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 3232-UNI) dated April 7,
1981, as well as in the Basic Economic Report examining the long-term economic
prospects and policy options facing Nigeria (Report 3341-UNI), dated August 17,
1981.
1.04      Agricultural Sector. 1/  Agriculture is the leading non-oil sector
in Nigeria, supporting 61% of the population directly, and providing 23% of
GDP, 5% of total exports and 62% of non-oil exports. Production is overwhelm-
ingly by smallholders, using traditional, manual technology. In the north,
cattle and annual crops predominate (grains, cotton and groundnuts), while in
the south cash income is largely from tree crops (cocoa, oil palm, and rubber)
with subsistence support from root crops and grains. Since 1970 agricultural
production has stagnated, with annual growth rates (below 1%) less than half
population growth. Domestic food prices have risen, agricultural exports have
declined, and imports of food rose fifteenfold between 1970 and 1978. Policies
to promote agricultural development must be pursued against an admittedly dif-
ficult macro-economic background. In addition to exchange rate factors, agri-
culture must compete with the booming modern sector, public and private,
fueled by oil revenues, and with high statutory minimum wages. These pres-
sures have been particularly hard to resist in the south of the country. In
1/   A full description and policy analysis is given in Report 2181-UNI (1979),
and in "The Green Revolution: A Food Production Plan for Nigeria,"
Federal Ministry of Agriculture (1980).



- 2 -
the south, urban centers are more highly developed, and agriculture has tradi-
tionally been based on export crops, which, squeezed between rising costs and
a relatively fixed exchange rate, are no longer able to compete in overseas
markets. In the middle belt and north, these pressures are felt less keenly,
though they are still present. Urban pull is less powerful, and given a much
smaller modern sector, statutory wage rates are less effective in influencing
private labor markets. The northern region's greater distance from seaports
gives some natural protection against imports of the grain products which now
form the overwhelming bulk of northern agriculture's output. In addition,
administrative protection, although erratic, has generally been effective in
keeping prices of domestic foodstuffs well above international levels. No
major petroleum exporting country has found it easy to deal with the effects
of the 'oil syndrome' on productive sectors. In Nigeria's case, continued
protection for agricultural commodities appears justified, and should be
accompanied, in the medium-to-long term, by measures to improve the produc-
tivity of the agricultural sector, i.e., better rural roads, more efficient
input supply, and extension services. Packages of such services to improve
agricultural productivity have been successfully pioneered under previously
Bank-financed ADPs.
1.05      Development Strategy and Constraints.  Successive Governments have
emphasized the importance of improving agricultural performance through
national programs such as Operation Feed the Nation, the National Accelerated
Food Production Program, and now the Green Revolution. The strategy has
been dualistic. On one hand, Government has attempted to introduce advanced
technology through intensive and costly irrigation and mechanization programs;
on the other, it has endeavored to expand services to small farmers through
Government agencies. Generally, the results have been disappointing and annual
growth rates in production have remained low, mainly because of inappropriate
planning and allocation of financial and manpower resources. Further, agri-
cultural research has not been very effective, and in some parts of the coun-
try, is non-existent, and has often failed to address farmers' most pressing
problems. Links between research and the extension services have been weak,
and the extension services in turn (divided between States and Local Govern-
ment Councils) have been short of trained manpower and often lacking in
vigorous direction and coordination. The structure of government subsidies on
farm inputs, especially fertilizer, has been such as largely to preclude com-
mercial involvement by the private sector in distributing such inputs, while
the public sector has lacked both the physical infrastructure and the effec-
tively managed institutions required to accomplish this task. At the same
time, the limited budgetary resources available for subsidy have imposed
artificial ceilings on total input availability.
1.06      Bank Role, Key Sector Issues and Future Strategy.  Between 1971
and 1981 the Bank committed US$764.2 million in loans for 22 projects in
Nigeria's agricultural sector. The projects are listed at Annex 1, Table 8
and shown in map IBRD 15065R1. They include a livestock project and a number
of area-specific Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs), mostly in the north
and "middle belt." Within the ADP project areas, semi-autonomous project
management units have provided strong direction to strengthened and expanded
extension services, undertaken local, adaptive field trials, established



- 3 -
input distribution of Farm Service Centers (FSCs), -and constructed and upgraded
rural feeder roads on force account. Where funding and management have been
adequate, these ADPs have generally achieved their objectives, and an annual
production growth of 5% have been achieved. With Bank assistance, the Govern-
ment has prepared and published a National Food Production Plan which sets a
five-year target for bringing ADPs, or similar but simplified service packages
to be known as Accelerated Development Areas (ADAs), to a larger segment of
Nigeria's rural population. The Bank's Agricultural Technical Assistance
Project (Loan 2029-UNI) will assist Government implement the ADA program.
The present project and other statewide ADPs have provided an opportunity for
FGN to address the need for improvement of fertilizer procurement and distri-
bution arrangements. A study, commissioned by the Federal Ministry of Agri-
culture (FMA) and completed in December, 1981, reviewed the nationwide ferti-
lizer procurement and distribution system and made appropriate recommendations.
FMA, in consultation with the Federal Ministry of Industry who have entered
into a Joint Venture Agreement with M.V. Kellogg Company for setting up the
fertilizer complex at Onne and for assistance in marketing, both domestic and
export, of the fertilizer produced at the Onne Plant, is now formulating
concrete proposals to strengthen its fertilizer procurement and distribution
division. FMA is expected to utilize the technical assistance already avail-
able under ATAP (Loan 2029-UNI). For the cropping year 1982-83, FMA have
imported and supplied sufficient quantities of ferti'lizer to Sokoto State.
1.07      To initiate and support policy changes in the agricultural sector
the Bank's strategy has been to provide FGN with data and recommendations for
supportive mechanisms to encourage the necessary changes. This has been
accomplished, albeit slowly, through sector and subsector work and technical
assistance. Thus, during the past two years, the Bank and FGN have jointly
undertaken, where possible, studies and reviews covering food production,
livestock, forestry, oil palm, agricultural marketing and prices, credit and,
most recently, manpower development and training. The findings of some of
these studies are being linked to future specific institutional actions
through the Agricultural Technical Assistance Project (para 1.06). Thus, for
example, technical assistance will be provided to the Nigerian Agricultural
and Cooperative Bank (NACB) and to the National Grains Board (NGB) with
the intention of implementing some of the recommended policy changes as well
as providing a lead for future Bank investments through these institutions.
The findings of the recent manpower development and training sector mission
should have immediate benefit, not only to Government manpower planning
strategy, but also to ongoing Bank-assisted projects, particularly the Agri-
culJtural and Rural Management Training Institute (Loan 1719-UNI).
1.08      An important tool now available to the Federal Ministry of Agricul-
ture (FMA) is the capability provided under ATAP to plan and monitor the
technical, organizational, and financial needs of the ADP/ADA programs. It
provides an opportunity, on the basis of evaluated results, to develop appro-
priate policies and incentives that will support, on a planned basis, agricul-
tural growth. Thus, for example, data from existing projects evidences the
need to reduce fertilizer subsidies. Minimum basic services to the farming
community can be encouraged through special and supplementary federal support
firLancing to State Governments. The proper monitoring of these and other
programs should provide a feedback to Government of the quantifiable progress
of its development efforts, and thereby induce a more favorable flow of
resources to the sector.



II. THE GUSAU AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Loan 1099-UNI)
A. Objectives and Experiences to Date
2.01      The Gusau Agricultural Development Project (GADP) was among the
first three agricultural development projects in Nigeria. The project cov-
ered about 4% of Sokoto State and was appraised in 1975, and became effective
in May 1976. The project included: (a) provision of improved production
packages for cotton, groundnuts, cowpeas, sorghum and maize grown by 68,000
participating farm families; (b) construction of 600 km of feeder roads to
provide better access to markets, and to open up areas with promising agricul-
tural potential; (c) provision of seasonal and medium-term credit; (d) devel-
opment of a seed farm; (e) improvement of the input supply system; (f) train-
ing of project staff, and (g) establishment of a monitoring and evaluation
unit. The project has completed its five-year development phase, and the loan
(US$19.0 million) has been fully disbursed. A PCR, dated 18 August, 1981, has
been prepared.
2.02      The real success of GADP can be appreciated only if its performance
is set against the relative stagnation in the rest of the country's agricul-
tural sector. The overall implementation of GADP has been good, and Govern-
ment fully supports the project concept. In fact the success of GADP, on
a relatively small scale, has encouraged the Government to replicate this
experience on a statewide basis. The project is very popular with farmers,
who have responded favorably to project actions. Most project targets
have been achieved. Although it is extremely difficult at this stage to assess
precisely the success of project production packages, results from
the ongoing Bank assisted research project 1/ indicate that about 60-70%
of project farmers adopted some of the improved packages. However, since the
improvements were introduced in the context of a mixed farming situation actual
average yields have been lower than those projected for sole crops. Overall,
project farmer yields have been appreciably higher than on unimproved farms
and returns per hectare have significantly increased. Available evaluation
data 2/ shows that between 1976 and 1978, average project farmer yields
increased by about 20% and aggregate production grew 12% per annum, with
particularly significant production increases for sorghum and cowpeas. Maize
uptake in the Gusau ADP has not equalled that in the contiguous Funtua project
area, but the crop has fully demonstrated its potential and financial attrac-
tiveness. Under proper agronomic conditions, maize yields have been twice
those of traditional sorghum and millet. Groundnut production has benefitted
from the Rosette resistant varieties made available by the project's seed
farm. The area and total production of cotton has failed to match targets,
mainly due to the inefficient statutory marketing arrangements for the crop.
However, due to the project's inherent flexibility, farmers were able to
1/   "Adoption of farm technology in Northern Nigeria" RPO 671-88 (June 1981)
- West Africa Projects Department, IBRD.
2/   "The Monitoring and Evaluation of the Funtua, Gusau and Gombe Agricul-
tural Development Projects", 1980, IBRD.



- 5 -
quickly and effectively respond to the changing environment, and to shift to
more remunerative crops. The increased food crop prices provided the farmer
with such opportunity, while assuring project viability. Despite supply
delays and shortages, fertilizer consumption by project farmers rose from
about 2,500 tons (1976) to over 14,000 tons (1979). In addition, the project's
seed farms produced high quality seeds not only for project farmers but also
for farmers in the rest of the state and for those in adjoining states.
2.03      The project's infrastructure program has been successful; in fact,
in cases actual performance has exceeded appraisal targets. Some 760 km
(target 660 km) of feeder roads, 43 FSC (target 40 FSC), 42 small dams (target
60 dams), as well as numerous buildings such as offices, houses and workshops
were constructed. The project feeder roads have had a salutary impact on
marketing and input supply. On certain feeder roads, the traffic volumes have
risen to almost 100 vehicles per day. More importantly, the GADP feeder road
unit is continuing to construct feeder roads outside the project area for
which it is being reimbursed by the concerned LGCs.
B. Lessons of Experience
2.04      Perhaps the most important lesson of the GADP is that in a risky
and relatively unknown farming environment, crop recommendations should be
made simple and flexible, so that the farmer can easily adjust his cropping
patterns to seasonal agro-climatic conditions and emerging long-term struc-
tural changes. The declining interest of GADP farmers in cotton cultivation,
for example, did not seriously affect project viability, because equally
att:ractive alternative food crop production packages were readily available.
One important farming characteristic was that, instead of sole crops, farmers
pre'ferred to continue growing mixed crops. Future adaptive research efforts
need to be concentrated on developing better cropping systems, concentrating
on the most common two- or three-crop mixtures. Moreover, in the context of
soaring labor costs, the emphasis should be on labor-saving technology.
Except possibly in the high risk northern areas, the production packages
should be primarily designed to maximize returns per man-day. The credit
operation of the project's commercial services division has not been fully
satisfactory. Although the loan default rate has averaged around 20% of
loans outstanding, the project's commercial staff has had to spend inordinate
amounts of time in administering the credit program. Future credit operations
would be institutionalized by linking them more closely to the cooperative
movement. The project's training program was successful and project manage-
ment in the GADP has been transferred progressively to Nigerian personnel.
There is a need, however, for a better defined management training program
to be administered by specialists in this field. Finally, the project's
monitoring and evaluation effort proved to be somewhat sophisticated and
resulted in delayed feedback to project management. In future, surveys
would be simplified to emphasize timely management-oriented (in contrast to
research-oriented) information.



III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical and Social Infrastructure
3.01       Physical features.  The project area, (see Map, IBRD 15424) encom-
passing the entire Sokoto State in northwest Nigeria, covers 102,500 km2
and includes 19 local government areas. The topography of the State is
dominated by a gently rolling pene-plain which rises from an elevation of
about 300 m in the northwest to an average of 450 m in the southeast, where it
peaks at 850 m. The southeastern half of the State is underlain by crystalline
rocks of the basement complex, covered by a discontinuous layer of weathered
granite (up to 40-50 m thick); laterite hardpans are found at variable depths.
The soils of the project area are generally light textured, with a medium to
low pH, and have limited reserves of plant nutrients particularly nitrogen and
phosphorus. The western part of the State is traversed by the wide and exten-
sive floodplain of the Sokoto-Rima River System, with the two rivers flowing
in a northeasterly-southwesterly direction through the State. The soils of
the lower river terraces and floodplain bottom lands vary considerably in
texture from sandy or silty clays to heavy clays with moderate to high organic
matter contents. They are subject to extensive flooding, but otherwise are
particularly suited for wet season cropping, and where water resources are
adequate, for dry season irrigation. The climate is primarily governed by the
movement of the Intertropical Convergence Zone, a monsoon rainfront. The
length of the rainy season decreases from south to north with 1,300 mm falling
during 170 days and 600 mm during 120 days, respectively. About 60% of
precipitation falls between May and September, but short dry spells may occur
in the middle of the rainy season, particularly in the north, with serious
adverse effects on crops. During the winter months (December through March),
cold and dry northeasterly dust-laden winds known as the "Harmattan" occur
frequently. A more detailed description of the project area's physical
features is given in the Project File (SWPC2).
3.02       Communications.  The trunk road network in the state is relatively
well developed with about 1,600 km of paved federal roads, 430 km of paved
state roads and 440 km of main gravel roads. A lack of road maintenance is
evident on the older, more heavily trafficked paved roads, where the pavement
is starting to break up. There are about 1,000 km of all-weather feeder roads,
of which 760 km are concentrated in the GADP area. In addition, there are
estimated to be 2,700 km of dry season motorable tracks. The overall density
of all weather roads in the state is presently about 34 km/100 km2 well below
the average of 6.0 km/100 km2 recommended in the Food Plan Under the Fourth
Development Plan, the State has planned to improve its feeder road network at
an estimated cost of N25 million. The lack of all weather roads in the
southeastern part of the state (Anka LGA and part of Gusau LGA) inhibit agri-
cultural development. Similarly, development of the area southwest of the
Niger river (part of Bagudo LGA) is constrained by the lack of a reliable
river crossing as well as poor internal communications. The State has ini-
tiated measures to relieve these constraints. A railway line from Zaria
and the south of Nigeria passes through Gusau to the railhead at Kaura Namoda.



-7-
The line is likely to have significance for input delivery and crop evacuation.
The project area is served by the newly constructed Sokoto airport, from where
Nigeria Airways operates a scheduled daily service to other parts of Nigeria.
3.03      Health Services and Schools.  The medical infrastructure of the
State is poor. Health services are mainly available to the urban population,
while the limited rural facilities are in poor physical condition. The Bank
is currently considering a rural health project for Sokoto State. Education
facilities in the State are quite good, and have benefitted from the Govern-
ment's strong commitment to universal Primary Education. The primary school
enrollment was nearly 400,000 in 1978, representing 60% of the primary school-
age population.
3.04      Power and Water Supply.  Electricity is supplied to the following
five main towns by the National Electric Power Authority (NEPA): Sokoto,
Guasau, Birnin Kebbi, Argungu, and Yauri. A modest number of diesel-operated
generating units (800 KVA) have been installed by the Ministry of Water and
Electricity. Such facilities are available at the zonal headquarters. How-
ever, since considerable voltage fluctuations and frequent power failures are
experienced, the project would make provision for self-sufficient power
generation at zonal headquarters. The water supply system is also unsatisfac-
tory, with only the towns and some major villages su.pplied with pipe-borne
water. Water supplies in most rural areas still consist of unreliable and
contaminated supplies from ponds and unimproved wells. Responsibility for
rural water supply has recently been transferred to the Ministry of Rural
Development and Cooperatives (MRDC), which has planned a construction program
for 1,000 concrete open wells, and some boreholes throughout the state. The
prcject would undertake a borehole program to improve water supplies in
villages of 500-1,500 population.
B. Socio-Economic Features 1/
3.C5      Demography.  Using the 1963 population census as a base 2/, and
assuming a 2.3% per annum growth rate, the State's population in 1980 is
estimated at 5.4 million. Of this, 90% or 4.9 million is rural. Population
is very unevenly distributed, however, with densities ranging from a low of
14 per km2 in Anka LGA to 123 km2 in Gwadabawa LGA. Sokoto LGA, which
includes the city, has a population density of 266 per km2. The average
farm family is made up of 6.5 persons, and there are an estimated 688,000
farming families in the State. Family labor is generally sufficient for
farming activities, with limited amounts of labor hired by the larger farmers.
Women contribute mainly to harvesting and post-harvesting operations.
1/   A full description of the project area population, customs, land tenure
system and farming organization is given in Project File (SWPCI).
2/   The 1973 Census has been abandoned formally by FGN.



-8-
3.06      Land use:  Existing land use information indicates that about 25% of
the State's 102,533 km2 land area, some 2.6 million ha, is under cultivation.
Since the majority of the farmed area is intercropped, with an estimated crop-
ping intensity of 140%, the total cropped area is some 3.6 million ha. How-
ever, the proportion of land farmed varies considerably across the State,
ranging from a low of 8% in Anka LGA to a high of 70% in Sokoto LGA. Good
potential for opening up new land for rainfed agriculture exists in parts of
Anka, Zuru, Yauri and Bagudo LGAs. In these areas, considerable migration is
already taking place, and with improved infrastructure, this flow is expected
to increase (Project File SWPC1). The majority of farms range between 3.5
and 4.0 ha. Farm holdings are usually fragmented into three or four plots
per household.
3.07      Cropping patterns.  The majority of the State's farmed area is under
manually cultivated rainfed crops grown at subsistence levels. A fractional
area is grown under cash crops in the dry season in the fadamas, the bottom-
lands along the river and streams. Sorghum and millet are the predominant
cereal crops (over 60% of the cropped area). Rice covers an estimated 2.5% of
the State's cultivated area and is grown in fadamas. Groundnut and cotton are
the main cash crops but their cultivation declined dramatically in the mid-
seventies due to marketing problems and price disparities favoring cereals.
Groundnuts also suffered from Rossette disease, a virus that almost wiped out
the crop. Cotton cultivation is mainly confined to the eastern and central
parts of the State as these areas have easy access to local ginneries.
3.08      Traditional farming is characterized by mixed cropping, using local
varieties, rudimentary manual cultivation, infrequent weeding and low plant
densities. Existing yields are very low, as improved technology and inputs
are hardly used outside the GADP. Mixed cropping is a hedge against risk and
within the socio-economic environment of the farmer satisfies to a degree both
subsistence and food security needs. Under low levels of inputs and tech-
nology, mixed cropping gives higher total yields/ha than sole cropping and
thus greater income (Table 5 SWPC1). Nevertheless, traditional crop mixtures
such as sorghum/millet are not always agronomically compatible as they compete
for nutrients and moisture at the same time and within the same root zone.
In fact, such crops have an exhaustive effect on the soil, which is aggravated
as chemical fertilizer use is limited, and the area under legumes is low.
3.09       If the prevailing low level of farm production is put in perspec-
tive with the agricultural potential (as shown by results obtained at GADP and
nearby research stations), it appears that significant production gains are
possible in a short period. More importantly, such production increases can
be obtained within traditional farming systems by making available, on time,
improved seeds, fertilizers, and plant protection material together with basic
farm support services and simple improved technology. In Sokoto State, the
fadamas offer greater potential than the uplands in improving yields, diversi-
fying crops and raising farmers incomes. Here, far more impressive production
gains can be achieved by introducing improved irrigation techniques and
equipment.



-9-
C. Agricultural Institutions and Support Services
3.10      Institutions.  The Ministry of Rural Deve:Lopment and Cooperatives
(MRDC) is the State's principal rural development agency. Created in October
1979, it is charged with the responsibility for developing rural water sup-
plies and feeder roads, developing cooperatives, and managing special agricul-
tural projects like the Gusau ADP. MRDC comprises a general administrative
section and three operational divisions: agricultural services (including
livestock), works division, and a cooperative and community development
division headed by the Chief Registrar of Cooperatives. At present MRDC
is severely understaffed at all levels, except its cooperative division which
was inherited from the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Cooperatives (MTIC).
Moreover, since agricultural extension work is the responsibility of LGCs,
MRJ)C has no effective outreach to the farmers. The Ministry of Local Govern-
ment (MLG) coordinates the activities of the 32 LGCs in the state. The law
establishing the LGCs envisaged a major developmental role for them, but
they do not yet have the capacity to tackle most of their responsibilities,
including extension, feeder roads, markets, rural warter supplies. The project
would include a program to train LGC staff to take over project functions such
as feeder roads and rural water supply maintenance (paras 6.14-6.20).
3.11      The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR) comprises
the Agricultural Services, Irrigation, Livestock, Produce Inspection, Forestry
and Agricultural Engineering Divisions. With the establishment of MRDC, the
agricultural services of MANR have been reoriented towards advising farmers
on pest control, soil conservation, and horticulture. In addition, MANR
handles seed multiplication, fisheries and forestry development. The present
arrangement of divided responsibility for agricultural development among MANR,
MRIC and the LGCs is unsatisfactory, and for the project period it is proposed
to unify the key elements of development under a single line of command.
3.12      Extension.  In 1976, the responsibility for all extension services
(except that of GADP) was transferred from MANR to the LGCs. At the LGC
level, the chief extension officer is an agricultural superintendent. The
existing work program is usually of an ad hoc nature, with little guidance
available on its content, presentation or means of execution. Moreover,
there is no established system of monitoring program effectiveness. The LGC
agricultural staff are frequently required to perform non-extension tasks
that range from supplying farm inputs to the sale of rice.  However, the main
problems impeding extension efficiency are: lack of technical direction;
inadequate in-service training; insufficient contact with farmers due to
inadequate manpower and absence of well-structured work programs; weak links
with agricultural research institutions; and poor logistic support. SSG is
aware of these problems and is placing high priority on reinvigorating its
extension services. Under the project, the extension services would be
considerably reorganized along the lines of the Training and Visit (T&V)
system and rendered more efficient.
3.13      Training for field overseers is carried out at the MANR Farm Train-
ing Center (35 enrollment), at Talata Mafara, and the Gusau School of Agricul-
ture (150 enrollment), operated by GADP. While the Talata Mafara School offers



- 10 -
a two-year program, with heavy emphasis on basic sciences, the GADP school
offers a one-year, practically-oriented curriculum, which is followed up by
regular in-service training, once staff are posted to the field. Additionally,
a two-year training program is provided for agricultural assistants at the
Zuru School of Agriculture. The school has adequate facilities but lacks a
demonstration farm, which would be established under the project (para 4.20).
Although existing courses cover a wide range of subjects, there is an urgent
need for properly organized on-the-job-training. At present, such training
is only available for GADP staff. For its senior staff, the State relies on
higher diploma and degree programs offered at Ahmadu Bello University (Zaria)
and its affiliated agricultural colleges, at the Sokoto and Kaduna Polytech-
nics, and at the recently established (1980) University of Sokoto. Despite
these opportunities, the State's staff development efforts have fallen
well short of its requirements due to difficulties faced by indigenes in
meeting entrance requirements and because of inadequate administration of
staff development programs within MANR.
3.14      Research.  There is currently no research of any importance in the
State. The only significant Research Station is the National Cereals Research
Institute's rice station at Birnin Kebbi. Although this station has been
testing rice varieties since 1972, its findings have not been tried on farmers
fields, at least on any significant scale. The Institute of Agricultural
Research (IAR) in Samaru has formulated some recommendations on crop varieties,
agronomy, and fertilizer requirements. These have been field tested by GADP
to some degree, and would be further tried for Sokoto State's different ecologi-
cal and soil conditions. The International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
(IITA) at Ibadan has made some promising research findings on cowpeas, soy-
beans, and maize that can be applied in Sokoto State. Overall, the research
at the farm level has been inadequate, and there is a need to test out avail-
able packages of crop mixes or relay cropping. The project's adaptive research
program (para 4.09) will provide the necessary research support to project
area farmers.
3.15      Input Supplies.  At present, responsibility for input supply is
divided between the MRDC and MANR. While fertilizer distribution is handled
by MRDC, other agro-chemicals and improved seeds are distributed by MANR.
The major source of improved seed is the GADP, which produces annually about
500 tons of groundnut, 130 tons of maize, and 160 tons of cowpea seed. The
current total State fertilizer consumption (excluding GADP) is 10,000 metric
tons, or 4.0 kg (nutrient value) per ha. Farmers are generally aware of the
benefits to be derived from increased input use, particularly fertilizers,
and experience with GADP farmers indicate a substantial unsatisfied demand.
At the State level, the most serious bottlenecks relate to poor distribution
planning, inadequate storage, and transport facilities. Details of the present
input distribution system and future proposals are in the Project File (SWPC5).
3.16      Cooperatives and Credit.  The State has a fairly well established
cooperative system. At the apex is the Sokoto Cooperative Federation (SCF)
which is supported by nine Cooperative Unions in eight LGCs and a statewide
network of 331 multi purpose primary societies. In addition, there are 120
tobacco grower and nine fishermen's societies. The cooperative movement is



- 11 -
dependent on Government support, both for its staff and financing. SSG is
arxious to reduce this dependance, and measures are being introduced to
strengthen cooperatives. The project would further assist in improving the
performance of existing and new cooperatives (para. 4.17). The cooperative
movement has been actively involved in produce marketing, but its involvement
with production credit is more recent (1979). During the 1979-80 season SCF
provided seasonal production credit to 65,000 farmers amounting to N1.5
million. Seasonal loans were made at a 5% interest rate. The rate of
recovery presently stands at over 90%. The State intends to establish a State
Cooperative Bank, whose authorized capital of N3.0 million would be fully
paid up, with SSG taking a 41% share. In addition, SSG is committed to
provide the Cooperative Bank with a N8.0 million long-term interest free
loan.
3.17      Apart from cooperative credit, the other major source of agricul-
tural credit is the Farmers Credit Scheme (FCS). This scheme was set up in
1975, and until October 1979, when it was absorbed into MRDC, was operated by
its own independent board. The main source of the FCS loanable funds has been
NACB, which to date has provided FCS with N5.8 million, under State Govern-
ment guarantee. Since 1975 FCS has made about 23,000 loans, amounting to
N13.4 million. The recovery performance of the FCS has been poor (on average
60% of loans disbursed) with the result that in 1979 it did not extend any fur-
ther loans. Further details of the existing cooperative system and the agri-
cultural credit operations are given in the Project File (SWPC5).
3.18      Marketing.  Foodcrop marketing in the State is on an almost "laissez
faire" basis with prices largely determined by supp]Ly and demand. The recent
World Bank Agricultural Prices and Subsidy Mission 1/ found producer prices
to be a high proportion of market prices. The farmer is estimated to obtain
about 70% of the retail price, with about 4% going to the transporter, and the
balance being shared by intermediaries. The marketing chains for domestically
produced foodstuffs, as measured by the number of times foodstuffs change
hands, are surprisingly short. Typically, the number of transactions between
the producer and final consumer averages between three or four. The most
common chain is producer-assembler-wholesaler-retailer-consumer. Producer
saLes usually occur on the farm, in the farmer's village or in rural markets.
In Sokoto State there are some 350 small, periodic, LGC-controlled, village
markets which form the main channel for the farmers output, but some interstate
trading is also reported to occur. The village markets have generally poor
infrastructure and are able to handle limited quantities of merchandise. If
inc:reased throughput is to be expected, there would be a need to rehabilitate
and expand certain important LGC markets.
3.19      Three statutory boards, namely, the Nigerian Grains Board, the Cot-
tort Board and the Groundnut Board, deal with crops grown in the project area.
With the exception of the Cotton Board--which enjoys monopsony powers--the
1/   Agricultural marketing and prices in Nigeria - Recent developments
and Policy Issues dated December 15, 1980.



- 12 -
boards have virtually no share of the produce, due to the low level of offi-
cial prices. Official marketing intervention is likely to remain confined to
the operation of strategic stocks. However, limited, short-term price support
operations in area-specific markets could be highly useful. For example, expe-
rience in the earlier northern ADPs has shown that introduction of improved
technology can lead to surpluses which, in the short run, local markets have
difficulty clearing. Under such circumstances, an efficient, official buying
operation could effectively act as a safety net. The existing marketing
arrangements and proposals in the project area are more fully described in the
Project File (SWPC6).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Summary Description
4.01      In full accord with FGN and SSG policies, the primary objectives of
the proposed project are to: increase agricultural production; improve farm
incomes; and rationalize and strengthen state institutions in the agricultural
sector, particularly the Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperatives (MRDC).
The project which would be implemented over five years, (1982-86), would
benefit some 482,000 farm families cultivating on average 4.0 ha. To achieve
these objectives the project would provide for:
(a)  Farm and Crop Development
-    increased production of the major rainfed and fadama crops
through the introduction of improved farm practices with
a parallel improvement in extension work, farm input supply,
and credit;
-    operation of a farm management advisory service to assist
more advanced group and individual farmers in their opera-
tions, and improving the State land use planning capability;
-    strengthening of existing seed multiplication facilities
and establishment of a 150 ha seed farm, to produce rice and
vegetable seeds;
-    establishment of an applied research program to test crop
varieties, farm systems, farm implements and crop proces-
sing equipment.
(b) Infrastructural development
-    construction of about 1,700 km of feeder roads, and training
of LGC staff in their subsequent maintenance;
-    improvement in rural water supplies by drilling some 1,200
boreholes and training LGC staff in their maintenance;



- 13 -
construction of project offices, workshops, stores, staff
houses and 68 Farm Service Centers (FSCs) and upgrading of
28 existing fertilizer stores into FSCs;
improvement of 18 rural markets, and construction of additional
cooperative storage facilities to handle farm inputs and
crops.
(c) Institutional Support and Training
-    project management, technical and administrative staff, including
logistical support;
-    establishment of a monitoring and evaLuation unit to evaluate
project progress and provide guidelines for future projects;
-    pre- and in-service training for project and SCF staff and
training for farmers;
-    strengthening of cooperative unions and their primary societies,
by providing financing, staff and constructing stores;
-    establishment of the Sokoto Agricultural Services Company (SASCO)
to supply essential farm inputs and services to farmers.
(d) Technical Assistance
-    recruitment of suitable staff to assist in program execution,
and training of managerial and technical staff for MRDC and
SCF;
-    consultant services to assist in the implementation of the
training programs, rural water supply, land use planning
and socio-economic studies.
B. Detailed Features
On-Farm Development
4.02      Project intervention would improve agricultural practices of approxi-
mately 482,000 smallholders, cultivating about 1.9 million ha (2.7 million ha
total cropped area, allowing for intercropping) in upland areas and on some
25,000 ha of fadama land. This represents 70% of the upland farmers, who,
on the basis of GADP experience, would be expected to adopt partly or wholly
improved cultural practices. A relatively higher adoption rate is envisaged
for fadama farmers, who would be carefully selected and would receive close
extension supervision. Expected increases in improved areas and production
from these areas are detailed in Annex 1, Tables 2 anid 3. Production in-
creases would be achieved by offering farmers improved upland and fadama crop



- 14 -
production packages. The rainfed package would include a simple and inexpen-
sive Basic Services Package (BSP) and a slightly more elaborate Advanced
Services Package (ASP). The two crop packages are discussed below.
4.03      The Rainfed Crop Production Packages are relatively simple and are
directed toward increasing yields (and income) per hectare and per unit of
labor input. By using high-yielding varieties with adequate fertilizer,
suitable plant populations and appropriate crop protection measures, combined
with timely sowing and weeding practices, there is scope for large increases
in food and cash crop production without unduly changing existing farming
systems. Under the BSP, farmers would be expected to apply these practices
to both sole and intercropping farm systems. The more innovative farmers,
including the group and larger farmers, would be offered the ASP involving
higher levels of farm inputs, such as pesticides, in combination with improved
land preparation and weeding practices. Technical details are further dis-
cussed in Chapter VI, while a fuller description of the State's agronomic
potential is in Project File (SWPC2).
4.04      Fadama Crop Package.  Although upland farming occupies the majority
of the State's cultivable area (over 85%), fadama development offers better
long-term development prospects. Over the five-year period, 40,000 farmers
would be assisted in improving cultivation on 10,000 ha and developing a
further 15,000 ha with minor irrigation during the dry season. The fadama
package would consist of improved cultivation practices and water management
techniques. The latter would include the introduction of modern water lifting
devices--including 2,000 diesel and 10,000 handpumps--improved plot layout,
and land levelling. Since some of these techniques and practices are new to
the target farmers, the rate of progress of this component would be slow
initially, concentrating during the first year on demonstration activities
using volunteer farmers' fields. Such demonstrations would be undertaken by a
special Fadama Planning and Demonstration Section (FPDS), which would provide
technical advice to fadama farmers. The project would also provide limited
amounts of grants (para 5.19) to promote proper land preparation and the use
of mechanical pumps. Technical details are discussed in Chapter VI, (and
SWPC2) while the estimated area and production are given in Annex 1, Tables 5
and 6.
4.05      Extension.  An efficient extension service is critical to the
success of the project. Under the project, the entire agricultural extension
services, currently with LGCs, would be seconded to the project management
unit (SAPMU). More importantly, existing and new staff would be retrained so
that they are able to operate through the Training and Visit (T&V) system of
organized, closely supervised agricultural extension. The success of the
T&V system would, however, depend greatly on the choice of contact farmers,
who would be carefully selected in consultation with LGCs. Such selection
would be regularly reviewed by farmers as well as by extension staff, and the
system would be flexible enough to allow the contact farmers to be replaced.
Contact farmers would be advised by the Field Overseers (FO) at fortnightly or
monthly intervals. The content of the fortnightly extension programs and the
briefing and training meetings would be prepared by the project's training and
subject matter specialists. The exact method of extension and the field



- 15 -
wiork/farmer ratio must be viewed with a considerable flexibility until the
clemands and the needs of the farmer are properly evaluated. The aim would
be to reduce the existing extension worker/farmer ratio from the current
1:4,000 to 1:600 by PY5. The project would finance the incremental salaries
of extension staff and the cost of necessary vehicles, equipment and buildings.
While the agricultural staff requirements are shown in Annex 1, Table 7 the
extension costs are in the Project File (SWPC9).
4.06      Input Supply and Credit.  The adequate and timely supply of farm
inputs, and other farm services would be the responsibility of the project's
Sokoto Agricultural Services Company (SASCO) to be established under the
project. This Company would distribute farm inputs through a network of
ASCs, FSCs, and cooperative retail outlets. The estimated input requirements
in PY 5 are: 210,000 tons of fertilizers, 4,500 tons of improved seeds, and
50 tons of various plant protection chemicals. SASCO would also stock and
sell animal-drawn implements, diesel pumps, hand pumps, fast-moving spares and
other requirements. SASCO would sell seasonal farm inputs on a cash basis but
when necessary, deferred payment would be allowed. Medium-term credit for
pumps, implements, and draft animals is expected to be provided by the Sokoto
Cooperative Federation and/or commercial banks. The detailed organization of
the input supply and credit system is in Chapter V. SASCO's financial projec-
tions are in the Project File (SWPC5). The project would finance SASCO's five-
year capital and operating costs, including buildings, equipment, vehicles,
and technical assistance.
4s.07      Farm Management Service and Land Use Planning.  To assist the more
innovative ASP farmers (para. 4.03), including large scale and group farmers,
the project would provide a farm management advisory service. In addition
to specialized extension advice, the SADP farm management team would assist
interested farmers to prepare farm plans for commercial bank financing. Loca-
lized population pressure combined with poor land use planning and overgrazing,
is leading to a gradual degradation of farm and range land within the state.
This is particularly the case in the north and west. The project-established
land use section would bring together all available land use and capability
information, and supplement this through remote sensing imagery and field
surveys. It would advise project management on land development opportunities
and problems, and assist in sighting project-financed infrastructure. In
collaboration with local governments, it would develop small-scale conserva-
tion areas to test and demonstrate conservation principles. Road construction
equipment could be used for this purpose during slack construction periods.
4.08      Seed Production.  Foundation seed would be obtained through the
National Seed Services Center at Zaria, while cotton seed will continue
to be supplied by the Nigeria Cotton Board. The project seed multiplica-
tion program would be kept flexible to meet the seed demands for varieties
accepted by the farmers. The existing GADP seed farms produce high-quality
groundnut, maize, cowpeas and millet seeds. Under the project, the GADP seed
multiplication facilities would be further strengthened and expanded to
satisfy the increased needs of the project. For this purpose, the project
would finance additional staff, seed grading/cleaning equipment and a small
seed testing laboratory. To meet the project's seed requirements for rice,
vegetables and sugarcane, two seed multiplication farms would be established,



- 16 -
a 100 ha farm in the Western Zone and a smaller (50 ha) farm in the Northern
Zone. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government would
make available suitable farm land to establish the proposed seed farms. The
project would finance the services of a specialist seed production manager
for the western zone farm. In addition, financing has been provided for
limited importation of high-quality vegetable seeds including Irish seed
potatoes. The project's seed multiplication farms could produce seed for
approximately 50,000 ha each year. In case of increased demand, outgrowers
would be involved. The seed production program is detailed in Project File
(SWPC2).
4.09      Applied Research.  The project's applied research program would aim
at integrating new technology acceptable to the local community in the existing
farming system, and would cover all the agro-ecological areas through zonal
centers. Three main areas of concentration would be: farming systems, fer-
tilizer use and soil-water management. Farming systems and intermediate
technology would focus on increasing production per unit of land, and would
include determining the agronomically compatible and economically viable
crop combinations for the different ecological zones. Research on animal
traction and tractor cultivation will aim at solving the labor constraints in
crop production. Fertilizer research would focus on the appropriate NPK
fertilizer mix for different crop mixtures. For this purpose, a soil testing
laboratory would be established in the project to determine the nutrient
status of the state's soils. Soil and water management research would focus
on simple soil erosion prevention techniques, optimizing the use of residual
moisture for crop production, and improving irrigation efficiency by adapting
the layout of farmer's fields and irrigation methods to the higher water
yields of pumped irrigation. Annual plans for adaptive research would be
prepared by SAPMU in consultation with zonal agronomists. Initial trials
would be carried out both on the existing GADP seed farms and on those to be
established (para 4.08). Successful research findings would be further
tested and later demonstrated on farmer fields.
4.10      The applied research program would be coordinated by SAPMU's central
agronomy section. The section would provide for two-way assimilation and
dissemination of information with the zonal centers. Linkage with outside
research organizations such as IAR, IITA, ICRISAT, would be the responsibility
of SAPMU's senior agronomist, who would be supported by two research officers.
Project financing would include construction of two applied research centers,
at Bunza and Wurno; facilities for the other two exist. In addition, the
salaries and other costs of research officers, junior agronomists and support
staff would be provided. Further details of the applied research program
are given in the Project File (SWPC2).
Infrastructure Development
4.11      Feeder Roads.  The project would finance the construction of 1,700
km of feeder roads linking important agricultural areas to the existing main
road network, including access to FSCs and agricultural markets. Particular
emphasis would be given to providing improved access to the agriculturally
important Sokoto-Rima, Zamfara and Gulbin Ka fadama areas. In addition,
simple improvements would be made to some seasonal access tracks within the



- 17 -
fadama areas, which are subject to annual flooding. The project road con-
struction program is much less intensive (1.7 km per 100 km2) than that of
the GADP (15.8 km per 100 km2). Construction would be organized on a zonal
basis, with an average of 100 km per zone being completed annually. Road
construction equipment (40% of construction costs) would be procured by the
project under ICB. Execution of the program would be by project engineers
recruited through a consultant firm. Petty contractors would undertake such
tasks as delivery of laterite and construction of culverts. The annual feeder
road development program including justification, length and location would be
carefully considered with MRWC and the various LGCs, and would be part of the
annual Action Plan to be agreed with the Bank prior to the beginning of each
calendar year (para 4.36).
4.12      Project road maintenance units would be established in each zone.
Erom the outset, the objective would be the gradual transition of feeder road
mtaintenance responsibility from the project to the LGCs. Each zonal road
maintenance unit would, as far as possible, be distinctly separate from the
construction unit, and would be established with its own equipment, workshop
and staff. By the end of the project, these road maintenance units would form
the basis for the establishment of a LGC Joint Board for feeder road mainte-
rnance in each zone. LGCs would be encouraged to provide staff for on-the-job
training in road maintenance and repair to prepare for assuming these res-
ponsibilities. To ensure full LGC involvement, the project would include a
road maintenance training engineer in SAPMU who would identify LGC training
needs, arrange secondment of LGC road staff and draw up annual training
programs.
4.13      Rural Water Supply.  The project's rural water supply (RWS) com-
ponent would aim at making potable water available to some 0.8-1.0 million
rural dwellers. For this purpose the project would finance the drilling of
about 1,200 boreholes, 700 of which are expected to be in hard rock forma-
tions, and 500 in sedimentary (mainly sandstone) strata. Drilling would be
undertaken by contractors under ICB. Areas deficient in drinking water have
been identified and preliminary priorities have been set, based on available
data of watering point densities. However, further detailed surveys would be
undertaken on a yearly basis, well in advance of drilling, to yield informa-
tion on the current water supply situation, hydrogeological conditions and
the siting of new watering points. Water quality tests would be conducted on
selected sites. Water supply maintenance would be organized on a three-tier
system at village, LGA and zonal level to ensure proper, long run functioning
of the RWS system (para 6.20). While the technological and organizational
aspects of the project's RWS program is discussed in Chapter VII, details are
in Project File (SWPC3).
4.14      Buildings.  The project would contract for a large amount of civil
works to house staff and support operations. Facilities would include more
than 1,100 staff houses of varying standards, 210 offices, 68 farm service
centers, upgrading of 28 existing fertilizer stores into FSCs, 40 stores, 8
workshops, various training facilities, and site improvements consisting
largely of electrical and water reticulation. The building program would be



- 18 -
executed by an internationally recruited civil engineer in project headquar-
ters, assisted by the senior engineer (usually the road engineer) and build-
ings supervisor in each zone. Standard designs based on other ADPs or MOW
designs are available and would be used in most cases. Buildings sections in
each zone, headed by the buildings supervisor, would be responsible for
maintenance.
4.15      Marketplace Improvements.  A large part of expected incremental food
crop production is expected to be marketed.  Existing infrastructure is not
fully able to handle increased throughput (para 3.18), and crop losses could
be high. Therefore, it is proposed to finance the improvement of 32 LGC
wholesale markets. Improvements would include provision of simple ameni-
ties for produce handling and reception, lorry parks, covered vendor stalls,
scales, water supplies and concrete floors. Most LGCs have the financial
means to undertake market improvements on their own, but at present they
appear to attach a relatively low priority to this type of investment.
Consequently, project financing for this component would be provided on a
matching basis, with 50% of the costs to be borne by participating LGCs. Each
LGC would prepare a plan for market improvement, which would be evaluated by
SAPMU's Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Development (RIAD) Committee
(para 5.03). Once plans were approved, the participating LGC would make an
advance financial contribution, equal to its share, into a "Market Improvement
Fund" to be established under the project.
Institutional Support
4.16      The institutional development features of the project relating
directly to the project management unit and associated committees are
discussed in detail in Chapter V of this report.
4.17      Cooperative Development.  The SSG is fully committed to involving
more actively the State's cooperatives in input supply, credit, and crop
marketing. If cooperatives are to play a more active role, their financial
base and management needs further strengthening (SWPC4). The project will
therefore include financing for: (a) the salaries of (19) union managers and
primary society secretaries (200); (b) the construction of about 10,000 tons
of storage for produce and inputs. The proposed storage sites would be
reviewed by the RIAD to be established under the project; (c) technical
assistance for the Sokoto Cooperative Federation (SCF), which will employ an
experienced agricultural credit specialist who would help streamline its
credit scheme; and (d) training cooperative sales staff (para 5.11). Further,
to ensure that cooperatives have an adequate capital base to effectively
engage in the project's marketing and credit operations, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that SSG would provide a matching grant amounting to
N5,000 for each union, and N500 per society totalling NO.5 million total.
4.18      Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).  To help establish an efficient
project management information system and to evaluate the impact of project
activities, the project would finance the establishment of a state level
Central Monitoring and Evaluation Section (CMES) with four zonal M&E sections
(ZMES). Specific project investments for M&E would include the services of
an internationally recruited evaluation specialist, three local M&E officers



- 19 -
and the necessary logistic support for a core of zonal enumeration teams.
The scope and organization of the project M&E Unit is discussed in Chapter V,
para 5.20, and details are in Project File (SWPC7).
4.19      Training.  The project itself would be a massive training effort
in improved agricultural methods, infrastructure development, communications,
and rural administration. It would provide a sound basis for on-the-job
experience and training under competent senior staff, where the objectives
of management and rural development would be clearly laid out. This in
it:self, however, is not sufficient, and the project would supplement on-
the-job experience with formal staff development programs. The training
component would aim both to meet the project's immediate manpower require-
ments and serve the state's long-term manpower development needs. The
projects training activities would be coordinated by SAPMU's Central Staff
Development and Training Section (CSDTS).
4.20      Field overseers (FOs), whose numbers would be greatly increased,
would continue to be trained at the Gusau School of Agriculture, whose present
curriculum and capacity are adequate for the State's upland extension needs.
To supplement the new training facilities at the Zuru school of Agriculture
(which trains Agricultural Assistants), the project would finance the develop-
ment of a 20 ha demonstration farm on or near the existing school site.
Furthermore, a new training center would be established at Bunza to train
FOs and AAs specialized in fadama irrigation practices. Aside from these
centralized training facilities, the project would establish zonal training
units to provide continuous training to field staff through mobile training
units. Residential training, for staff and farmers, would be available at the
Talata Mafara, Zuru and Bunza centers. To support the training and extension
activities, a Media Center would be established under SAPMU, which would
develop training materials, including audio-visual presentations and a radio
program. A training program would also be developed to upgrade the basic
educational qualifications of FOs in order to qualify them for diploma courses
at. Zuru and elsewhere. Facilities and staff for this purpose would be located
at. the Talata Mafara Farm Training Center, whose FO training functions would
be ended. Training for other project staff including commercial, works and
accounting staff would also be carried out at the Talata Mafara training
center. The organization and implementation of the project's training program
is discussed in Chapter V, and further details are contained in the Project
File (SWPC6).
Technical Assistance
4.21      Sokoto Agricultural Project Management Unit (SAPMU).  The SAPMU
would be principal project implementation agency. The project would provide
for the international recruitment, through consultant firms, of 125 staff-years
of key technical and managerial staff for SAPMU (details are in paras 5.08-
5.09).
4.22      Consultancy and Studies.  The project would finance 108 expert-months
of- short-term consultant services to assist in specific areas where local
skills are unavailable, or where SAPMU needs short-term supplementation.
Specifically, the consultants would provide:



- 20 -
(a) specialized training services including a review of management
training (26 expert-months);
(b) specialized skills to plan the project's water supply compo-
nent, in particular in the interpretation of side-looking
radar imagery and hydrogeological data (22 expert-months);
(c) advice on land use planning including services in remote sensing,
air photography interpretation, soil surveys and cartography
(20 expert-months);
(d)  support for the project's monitoring and evaluation study in
that selected farm level studies would be undertaken to assess
the project's impact on farm incomes and its distribution
(20 expert-months); and
(e) help in drawing up post-project development plans, including
arrangements for maintenance of feeder roads and rural water
supply (20 expert-months).
4.23      The consultants would be hired individually or through firms  at an
estimated cost of US$11,000 per expert-month. It is expected that international
consultants would provide the main input, but efforts would be made to encou-
rage local firms to participate. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that consultants would be engaged with qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and Government would promptly submit
consultants' reports to the Bank for review.
C. Cost Estimates
4.24      Project costs during the five-year development period 1982-86,
are estimated at N274.3 million (US$498.7 million). N121.5 million
(US$220.9 million) or 44% would be foreign exchange costs, and N152.8
million (US$277.8) local costs, of which N15.4 million (US$28.0 million)
would be taxes. The costs are summarized in table 1 below.



- 21 -
Table 1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST
Percentage
of
Base Total
Local  Foreign  Total   Loca:L  Foreign  Total  Cost  Cost
-----(N Million)-----   ----(US$ Million)----
Project Management           5.5      4.0       9.5    10.0    7.3    17.3        5      3
Staff Development            7.8      3.9      11.7    14.2    7.1    21.3        6     4
Land ULse Planning           1.1      0.9       2.0      2.0    1.6      3.6      1      1
Applied Research             1.7      0.6       2.3      3.0    1.2      4.2      1      1
Seed Multiplication          1.2      0.9       2.1      2.2    1.6      3.8      1      1
Monitoring and Evaluation  3.0        1.0       4.0      5.5    1.8      7.3      2      2
Extension                   21.4      7.5      28.9    38.9   13.6    52.5    15    10
Fadama Development           6.2      4.0      10.2    11.3    7.2    18.5        5     4
Engineering Services         2.5      2.1       4.6      4.6    3.8      8.4      2     2
Mechanical Workshops         4.4      2.6       7.0      8.0    4.7    12.7       4      3
Road Construction           14.8    10.7       25.5    26.9   19.5    46.4    13         9
Road Maintenance             7.7      5.5      13.2    14.0   10.0    24.0        7      5
Water Supplies               4.8      7.5      12.3      8.8   13.6    22.4       6      4
Marketing and Coops          3.2      1.2       4.4      5.8    2.2      8.0      2     2
Sokoto Agric. Services
Comlpany (SASCO)          10.2      3.3      13.5    18.5    6.0    24.5        7     5
Fertilizer                  18.8    30.6       49.4    34.2   55.6    89.8    25    18
Chemicals and Implements   6.4    10.7         17.1    11.7   19.4    31.1        8     6
Subtotal                   120.7    97.0    217.7   219.6  176.2   395.8   110    79
(Non-Incremental Costs)  (17.9)   (2.2)   (20.1)  (32.7)  (3.8)  (36.5)  (10)   (7)
TOTAL BASE COST            102.8    94.8    197.6   186.9  172.4   359.3   100    72
Physical Contingencies       5.5      5.5      11.0    10.0   10.0    20.0        6      4
Price Contingencies         44.5    21.2       65.7    80.9   38.5   119.4    33    24
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS        152.8   121.5    274.3   277.8  220.9   498.7   139   100
4.25      Project base costs are calculated using prices obtained during
appraisal and updated to levels expected to prevail in October 1981. Costs
include physical contingencies equal to 5% of base costs, except on civil
works which have 10%, and 25% for borehole drilling. Price contingencies
are calculated on base costs plus physical contingencies and are compounded
annually using the following annual rates: on local salaries and allowances,



- 22 -
10%, on all other local costs, 15%; and on foreign costs, 8.5% in PYI, 7.5% in
PY2-PY4 and 6% thereafter. Total contingencies are equivalent to 28% of total
costs or 39% of base costs. Details of project costs are presented in Annex 2,
Table 1, and the Project File (SWPC9).
4.26      The costs summarized in Table 1 are incremental, covering those
investments and operational costs over and above the present MRDC and MANR
recurrent budget covering comparable areas. This annual current level of
expenditure is estimated at approximately N4.0 million. An assurance was
obtained during negotiations that SSG would maintain at least that level of
spending, adjusted as necessary for inflation, in addition to its contribution
to incremental costs. For annual farm inputs, the table includes those annual
quantities which are incremental over the preceding year's estimated consump-
tion. In the case of fertilizer, which is the key input, FGN has initiated
satisfactory fertilizer supply arrangements and is currently establishing a
National Fertilizer Marketing Company (para 1.08).
D. Proposed Financing
4.27      Of the total project cost of N274.3 million (US$498.7 million),
the Bank would finance N80.9 million (US$147 million) at the lending rate
of interest current at the time of loan approval and for a period of 20
years including a five-year grace period. The Bank loan would represent 30%
of project costs or 32% of costs net of taxes, and would be approximately
67% of the foreign exchange component. FGN's contribution (N77.6 million)
would consist of 25% of project costs exclusive of input costs (N44.6
million), plus the fertilizer subsidy (N33.0 million), equivalent to 48%
of the farmgate price. SSG would contribute N85.4 million plus N3.5
million as equity contributions to SASCO and the cooperatives (not part of
project costs). Farmer contributions amounting to N30.4 million would
finance seasonal inputs. A detailed project financing plan is in Annex 2
Table 3, and summarized on page 22.
4.28      Under the current subsidy practices FGN subsidizes 50% of the cost
of fertilizer delivered to Sokoto, the farmer pays a fixed cost (approximately
equal to 18% of the cost to the State) and SSG pays the remaining cost includ-
ing distribution costs to the retail level. If current subsidy practices
continue, with the projected levels of fertilizer usage (para 4.06), the total
cost to FGN and SSG of fertilizer subsidies over the project period would be
N181.4 million. The Bank would not finance the foreign cost of incremental
fertilizer requirements, as the Government is able to finance the subsidies to
the rural sector from its oil revenues. However, if due to Government's
subsidy policy SASCO (the State's input distribution agency) were unable to
recoup its operating and handling charges from the buyers, SSG would be
obliged to cover such deficits. At negotiations it was agreed that SSG,
FGN and the Bank would annually review and agree on SASCO's cost recovery
policies and practices to ensure that the cost of any input or service is
fully recovered.



- 23 -
Table 2: SUMMARY FINANCING PLAN
(N million)
Total      IBRD      FGN    Farmers        SSG
Civil Works                    34.2        17.1      8.5       -           8.6
Plant, Vehicles, Equipment   44.3          29.5     11.1       -           3.7
Borehole Drilling               7.9         5.4      1.4       -           1.1
Chemical & Implements          25.2        14.6       -      22.7       (-12.1)
Fertilizer                     71.2          -      33.0      7.7         30.5
International Staff &          14.3        14.3       -        -            -
Consultants
Local Staff                    39.1          -      10.0       -          29.1
Operating Expenses             38.1          -      13.6       -          24.5
Total (N million)    274.3         80.9      77.6    30.4         85.4
(US$ million)  498.7       147.0    141.1    55.3          155.3
4.29      The Bank loan of US$147.0 million would be made to the Federal
Goverment which would onlend to SSG on the same terms and conditions under a
subsidiary loan agreement drawn up between FGN and SSG. The signing of the
subsidiary loan agreement is a condition of effectiveness. As many projects
have suffered from inadequate and untimely inflows of funds from Government
sources, FGN and SSG agreed, during negotiations, to a flow of funds mechanism
to address this problem. More specifically, SAPMU would submit at least four
months prior to each fiscal year the project's proposed annual budget as
approved by the SARDC to FMA and the Bank. SAPMU would be authorized to
establish overdraft facilities equivalent to three-months' expenditure, N5
million, and the overdraft would be guaranteed by SSG. A condition of effec-
tiveness requires SSG to provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the
guaranteed overdraft facilities had been established with a commercial bank.
SSG and FGN would each pay their contribution into the project's bank account
quarterly and in advance in accordance with the approved annual budget. It
was agreed at negotiations that, in the event of SSG's being delinquent in
paying its contribution to project costs, FGN would pay the State's contribu-
tion directly from SSG's statutory allocation into the project's bank account.
This would be specified in the subsidiary loan agreement between FGN and SSG.
Conditions of effectiveness are: (a) that FGN and SSG had made their initial
quarterly contributions for SAPMU, estimated at N3 million each into SAPMU's
comimercial bank account (para. 4.33); (b) that SSG had contributed Nl
million to SASCO, as payment for cash equity to its commercial bank account
(paras 4.32 - 5.13); and (c) Bank reimbursement would be made directly to the
SAPMU's commercial bank account.



- 24 -
E. Procurement
4.30      Chemicals and agricultural implements valued at N25.9 million
(US$47.1 million), of which N25.2 million (US$45.8) is incremental; vehicles,
road construction equipment, tractors and other equipment and spare parts
valued at N44.3 million (US$80.5 million); and civil works including build-
ings, boreholes, and materials for road construction valued at N42.0 million
(US$76.3 million) would be procured through international competitive bidding.
Services of consultants and internationally recruited staff valued at N14.3
million (US$26.0 million) would be obtained in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for civil works valued at less than US$2
million and other contracts for less than US$200,000 would be awarded following
local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. For contracts
of less than US$60,000 direct competitive shopping would be employed. Items
for procurement would be bulked to permit optimum use of competitive bidding.
Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a 15% preference or the
applicable import duty, whichever may be lower, when comparing bids with
those of foreign manufacturers in procurement under ICB. Fertilizer valued
at N203.5 million (US$370.0 million) would be procured by the NFMC and would
not be reimburseable under the loan.
F. Disbursements
4.31      The Bank loan would be disbursed from 1982 to 1986 as follows:
Category I    50% of the cost of buildings and other civil works
(US$28.0 million);
Category II   100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported
goods for vehicles, tractors, heavy plant, generators,
road-equipment, and spare parts, or 85%, if locally
procured (US$48.3 million);
Category III  100% of the cost of salaries and allowances of
internationally recruited staff and cost of consul-
tant services, studies and overseas training (US$23.0
million);
Category IV   100% of the foreign costs or 70% of the total costs of
contracted borehole drilling for rural water supply,
(US$9.0 million);
Category V    100% of the foreign expenditure on directly imported
incremental chemicals and other farm inputs, excluding
fertilizers, or 70%, if locally procured (US$23.9
million); and
Category VI   An unallocated amount of US$14.8 million.



- 25 -
Al:L expenditures would be fully documented and disbursements for all cate-
gories would be made only against authorized contracts. Provision has been
made for up to US$1.0 million of retroactive financing as of May 1, 1981 for
key internationally recruited staff, to assist in project start-up activities.
A schedule of Bank loan disbursements is given in Arnex 2, Table 4.
G. Budgeting, Accounts, Audit and Reporting
4.32      Annual budgets would be prepared by SADP management based on
appraisal estimates but amended where necessary to reflect changes in costs
an(d project development policies. These budgets would be approved by SARDPC.
The approved SADP annual budgets would provide the guideline for preparing
more detailed quarterly cash flows which would be approved by the SADPEC, and
whi.ch would form the operational basis of project activities. SSG would use
the approved SADP annual budget as a basis for making budgetary allocations to
the project. All necessary funds for SADP would be provided quarterly and in
advance into two separate commercial bank accounts to be established for SAPMU
and SASO (para 4.29).
4.33      SAPMU and SASCO would keep financial records in accordance with
sound accounting practices to reflect their operational and financial posi-
tion. All project accounts and financial statements would be audited annually
by independent auditors who would also review the proposed accounting system
at project initiation. During negotiations assurances were obtained from
Government that (a) SAPMU and SASCO's accounts would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to Bank; (b) the audit report would be submitted to the
Bank within four months of the end of the fiscal year; and (c) the report of
the auditor would be of such scope and in such detail as Bank may reasonably
request, including a statement as to whether or not Bank funds had been used
for their intended purpose. The Federal Agricultural Support Unit (Kaduna)
being set up under the Bank-assisted Agricultural Technical Assistance Project
(ATAP) (para 1.06) would monitor the accounting and financial system of SADP,
as well as provide generalized technical support services.
4.34      Both SAPMU and SASCO would submit quarterly progress reports to
Government and to the Bank showing actual and budgeted expenditures, state-
ments of progress achieved and objectives for the forthcoming quarter by each
project component. The quarterly reports would contain summary expenditures
and use of funds.
H. Implementation Schedule and Annual Review
4.35      Overall project implementation would take five years (Chart 22301).
However, several components--feeder roads, water supply, farm service centers,
market development--are expected to be substantially completed by the end
of the fourth year. Experience with earlier ADPs showed that a good project



- 26 -
start-up is critical to the overall speed of project implementation. Con-
sequently, retroactive financing (US$1.0 million) has been provided to finance
some key pre-project implementation activities.
4.36      The project covers a broad range of related activities, the timing
and scope of which would undoubtedly require adjustment as experience is
gained. Flexibility in project implementation would therefore be needed.
It is proposed that each year SAPMU prepare an Action Plan (AP), detailing
proposed investments and project activities during the following fiscal
year. The AP would also detail arrangements for training and for road and
water supply maintenance, including, where appropriate, supplementary funding
arrangements from SSG and LGCs (e.g., for road maintenance). The AP would
include a budget for the following year and SAPMU's annual report, including
its audited financial statement. The annual APs, as reviewed and approved by
SADPEC, would be submitted to the Bank for review and comment by September 30
of each year commencing 1982; assurances to this effect were obtained at nego-
tiations. The AP would be reviewed by SSG, FGN and Bank at an implementation
review to be held in October of each year. The Implementation Review and
agreed AP would form the basis for Bank supervision of the project. The
submission to the Bank for approval of the first AP for the year 1982 is a
condition of effectiveness.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.01      Project Coordination.  The project embraces a wide range of activi-
ties which are at present the responsibility 6f different ministries, agencies
and institutions (paras. 3.10 and 3.11). These agencies would continue to be
responsible for undertaking their project components, but since many of these
activities are interdependent, it is important to ensure proper coordination,
and to provide overall policy guidance. Under the project, this is to be
achieved by establishing a single management unit (para 5.05) with a large
degree of autonomy, but which would operate under the general policy guidance
of a state level coordinating and policy-making body, the Sokoto Agricultural
and Rural Development Policy Council (SARDPC). The main purpose of SARDPC
would be to coordinate and define the state's rural development policy and
oversee project execution. SARDPC would be chaired by the Governor or Deputy
Governor with the Commissioners of MRDC, MANR, MOF, MOEP and MLGC as its
members. Other members would be the Director of Budget, the Governor's
political and economic advisor, the Chairman of the State Green Revolution
Committee, the General Managers of SRRBDA and SASCO, the SADP program manager
and the SADPEC chairman. SARDPC would meet once or twice per year and would
be responsible for reviewing project implementation and agreeing to the SADP's
annual AP (para 4.36) and budget. It would also assess the role of the
various participating ministries and agencies in SADP.



- 27 -
5.02      To coordinate the operational aspects of the project, SSG would
establish a high-level executive committee: the Sokoto Agricultural Develop-
ment Project Executive Committee (SADPEC). While the Chairman of SADPEC would
be appointed by the Governor, its other members would be the Permanent Secre-
taries of the Ministries of Rural Development and Cooperatives, Agriculture,
Economic Planning, Finance, LGC, the Program Manager, the Managing Director of
SASCO and a representative from the Federal Department of Rural Development.
Coopted members would be the four zonal managers, representatives of the
Ministries of Works, and the Budget Directorate. SADPEC would be responsible
for: (a) determining policy in respect of project execution; (b) coordinating
relevant activities between ministries (both state and federal), and liaise
with parastatals and federal bodies like the SRRBDA; (c) formulating and
approving project training policies, and overseeing training programs; (d)
approving contracts over N100,000, 1/ and (e) appointment of senior project
staff. The establishment of SARDPC, SADPEC and SAPMU are conditions of
effectiveness.
5.03    SADPEC would have a technical sub-committee:  the Rural Infrastructure
and Agricultural Development Committee (RIAD). The sub-committee would be
chaired by the Permanent Secretary MRDC. The RIAD would monitor and coordi-
nate the project's infrastructure activities including its water supply and
LGC road training program and market place improvements. It would also
monitor project-wide agricultural matters like applied research, seed multi-
plication, and extension training.
5.04    To encourage popular participation and mobiLize grass roots support
for the project, a Zonal Agricultural Development Advisory Committee (ZADAC)
would be established at each zone. ZADAC would consist of the Chairman and/or
secretaries of the Zonal LGCs, a representative of the traditional council in
the areas, the zonal project manager and his financial controller, and SASCO's
zonal sales manager. The LGC chairman would chair ZADAC meetings on a rota-
tional basis. ZADAC would advise on the annual zonal development program and
budget; more specifically, it would advise project management on the siting of
roads, FSCs and other civil works, establish guidelines for land allocation
(wlaere necessary) and payment of land compensation by LGs. The ZADAC would
also promote the establishment of LGC Joint Boards as per Section 52 of the
Local Government Edict.
5.05    Project Management.  The project would be managed on a four zone
basis, with the Sokoto Agricultural Program Management Unit (SAPMU) as the
apex organization. Establishment of SAPMU would be a condition of effective-
nesS. The four development zones would comprise the following LGCs:
1/   Contracts valued at less than N100,000 would be the responsibility of
SAPMU.



- 28 -
Eastern Zone      -  Gusau, Anka, Talata Mafara, Kaura Namoda,
Chaffe, Maradum, Zurmi (headquartered at Gusau)
Northern Zone    -  Wurno, Silame, Gwadabawa, Isa, Sokoto,
Tangaza, Gada Rabah, Kware, Sabon Birni,
(headquartered at Wurno)
Western Zone      -  Bunza, Argungu, Birnin-Kebbi, Bagudo,
Koko Berse Brewa-dandi, Yauri, Jega
(headquartered at Bunza)
Central Zone      -  Gummi, Bodinga, Yabo, Zuru, Sakaba-Wasagu,
Dange, Tanmal (headquartered at Gummi)
5.06    The proposed organization of SAPMU is shown in World Bank Chart No.
22267. During the five-year development period SAPMU would take over the
responsibilities of the present agricultural services division of MRDC
together with all existing staff and would be fully integrated in the minis-
tries structure. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
existing agricultural services of MRDC, selected MANR staff, and all existing
LGC extension staff, would be seconded to SAPMU for the project period. The
SAPMU would provide centralized support services to the Zonal sub-projects in
the fields of training, civil engineering, water supplies, applied research,
seed multiplication, land use planning, fadama development, and monitoring and
evaluation. Although the managers of SASCO and Cooperative Bank would co-
ordinate through SADPEC, for day to day operations they would liaise closely
with the program manager.
5.07      Four zonal project managers would be responsible to the program
manager for the full implementation of the program within their respective
agricultural zones. In particular, they would be responsible for the zonal
extension effort, training and infrastructure development. In consultation
with ZADAC, they would draw up the annual zonal work program and budget
which, once they were approved by SADPMU, would be implemented with a large
degree of autonomy.
B. Staffing and Training
5.08      Staffing.  There continues to be a critical shortage in Sokoto
State, and in Nigeria generally, of trained staff with experience in manag-
ing a development program as proposed in the present report. Experience from
ongoing projects indicates that the shortage is particularly evident at
senior and middle levels of management. Since Sokoto State faces relatively
severe manpower constraints, project implementation would be phased, par-
ticularly for the extension and road construction programs. Furthermore, an
intensive preproject training program would be initiated to achieve balanced
growth in all zones. Despite the phasing and training, however, a relatively
large number of experienced senior level and managerial staff will have to be
recruited internationally. The project has therefore provided funds for about



- 29 -
125 staff years (about US$110,000 per staff year) 1/ for international recruit-
ment of experienced and highly qualified staff. Internationally recruited
technical staff would include the program manager, four zonal managers, agrono-
mists, land use planners (2), irrigation engineer, and manpower and media
specialists. Financial staff would comprise the financial controllers, zonal
chief accountants, and the SASCO financial controller. Engineering staff
would consist of a mechanical engineer, senior water supply engineer, senior
hydrogeologist, and four zonal road and mechanical engineers. Commercial
staff would include a marketing specialist, the SASCO managing director and
sales manager, and a credit specialist for the Cooperative Federation. The
appointment of the program manager and the financial controller would be a
condition of Board presentation.
5.09      The Bank's Agricultural Project's Management Unit (APMU) for Western
Africa would assist in recruiting the project's key staff, which includes the
program manager, financial controller, land use planner, roads engineer and
senior staff development coordinator, all of whom would be expected to be
in place before Board presentation. The other internationally recruited staff
would be engaged through a recruiting firm, Nigerian-based where possible, in
order to allow Nigerians from the private sector, as well as expatriates, to
be considered. Existing GADP staff are obvious candidates for some of the
posts. The individually recruited staff and consultants to help in project
execution would be engaged with qualifications and experience, and according
to terms of reference and contracts, satisfactory to the Bank. The establish-
ment of a project recruiting agency and a managing agency for SASCO, which are
satisfactory to the Bank, is a condition of effectiveness.
5.10      Training.  Sokoto State faces unusally severe constraints in the
supply of trained and experienced manpower. While in the project design a
conscious effort has been made to minimize manpower requirements, at the
same time an exceptionally intensive staff development and training program
has been included. As part of their terms of reference, expatriate employees
would be required to participate in the training of their deputies as de-
sixgnated successors and by the end of the project most, if not all, of the
key managerial and supervisory positions should be in the hands of Nigerians.
Candidates for future management positions would undertake individually
tailored work programs, which would be systematically evaluated by SADPEC.
Aside from on the job training, the project would include a well-designed and
systematic training program which would be implemented by a Central Staff
Development and Training Section (CSDTS) headed by a Senior Staff Development
Coordinator in the program headquarters. Principals of project-operated
training facilties at Gusau, Bunza, Zuru and TalataL Mafara and the project's
1/   Includes salary, allowances, gratuity, medical, education benefits,
settlement costs, international travel and company overheads including
fee.



- 30 -
Media Specialist would report directly to the coordinator. CSDTS will be
responsible for all aspects of staff development and administration, including
the keeping of personnel records; identifying and arranging places in training
programs in Nigeria and abroad; identifying staff eligible for training and
supervising them while they are attending their courses; manpower planning;
course development and assessment; and assistance to other state agricultural
training institutions. The Staff Development Coordinator would also be
responsible for: (a) working with State and Local Government officials in
developing adequate training programs in areas related to project activities,
e.g., feeder road and water supply maintenance; and (b) the development of
Nigerian counterpart staff including regular management training courses.
5.11      With the exception of the Zuru school of Agriculture, all training
facilities would be run by the project. The Zuru School will remain under
MANR. The project will operate the farm training center to be built as part
of the demonstration farm at the school. The project and the school will
jointly operate the demonstration farm. In-service training for field staff
would be mainly provided through mobile training units (2 per zone). These
units would be staffed by training officers and subject matter specialists,
who will visit extension staff on a bi-weekly schedule to teach new practices
which field workers will immediately pass on to farmers. The subject matter
specialists, posted to the training unit from the extension services, will
develop the course content, while the training officers will package the
information in such a way that it will be best received by the field staff.
Zonal training staff will be supported by materials developed by the Media
Specialist. Farmer training will similarly be handled through mobile units.
Zonal staff will also train evaluation, cooperative, and commercial staff,
using materials centrally developed for these purposes. Field training will
be supplemented by residential courses, designed by zonal staff, at the three
farm training centers. The zonal training unit will be responsible for iden-
tifying candidates from the zone for further training.
C. Input Distribution
5.12      The establishment of an efficient and dependable mechanism for
the procurement and distribution of farm inputs throughout the project area is
fundamental to the success of the project. Existing input distribution
arrangements are highly unsatisfactory (Project File (SWPC5)), and a major
departure from this arrangement is warranted. Consideration was given to
establishing a centralized commercial input unit, similar to that operated in
the GADP, but it was concluded that for a statewide project a self-financing,
commercially oriented parastatal, providing a wide range of farmer services,
would be more appropriate. Such a parastatal will actively support coopera-
tive development, so that ultimate responsibility for input distribution
could be transferred to farmer organizations. With these objectives in mind,
it is proposed to establish a Sokoto Agricultural Services Company (SASCO)
similar to the companies established for the statewide ADPs in Bauchi and
Kano States. Due to the critical importance of having an efficient input
distribution system, the establishment of SASCO would be a condition of
effectiveness.



- 31 -
5.13      SASCO would be established as a limited liability company under the
1.968 Companies Act, with an authorized share capital of N25.0 million of
which N2.0 million would be initially paid up. In addition, SASCO would
take over existing MRDC stores valued at N2.0 million. The major share-
h,older of the Company would be the SSG, with the Sokoto Cooperative Federation
(SCF) subscribing Nl.O million to SASCO's share capital. SCF participation
is considered important to ensure an eventual takeover of the company by the
cooperative movement, and would be a condition of effectiveness. The main
objectives of SASCO would be: (a) the efficient and timely procurement of farm
inputs required to support the State ADP; (b) distribution of essential farm
inputs and provision of other essential support services to farmers throughout
the state; (c) assistance with grain marketing by entering, whenever necessary,
into bulk grain contracts with agencies like the Grains Board and other major
buyers such as feed and oil mills.
5.14      The detailed organization of SASCO including its draft Memorandum
and Articles of Association is given in the Project File (SWPC5). SASCO's
Board of Directors would initially consist of the State Commissioner for
Finance (Chairman), the Permanent Secretaries of MRDC, MANR, MOF and MOFEP,
the SADP Program Manager, Chairman of SADPEC, Managing Director (SASCO),
Chairman of the Cooperative Federation, and a representative of FMA. The
day-to-day operations of the Company would be the responsibility of a Managing
Director, who would operate three main divisions: Finance and Administration,
Operations, and Internal Audit. The senior managerial and commercial staff
required to establish and operate SASCO would be provided under a management
contract (originally for five years with an option to extend) with an estab-
lished commercial concern. Further, to provide an incentive to effective
mtanagement, a profit-sharing scheme has been proposed for the managing agent
(MA). Under the scheme the MA would, each year, earn a commission which would
be tied to the Company's net profit. The contract would also specify MA's
responsibilities in the training of indigenous staff at all levels. It would
be a condition of effectiveness that a draft management contract had been
prepared and that its terms and conditions were acceptable to the Bank. It is
intended that as far as possible SASCO would be run on commercial lines, with
strict control over costs, and accountability of each operating unit. To the
extent that government input pricing policies may continue to make certain
operations non-viable financially, satisfactory arrangements for the payment
of specific subsidies to SASCO will need to be agreed (para 4.28). SASCO's
projected balance sheets, profit and loss accounts and cash flow statements
are in the Project File (SWPC5).
5.15      Sales Policy.  SASCO would distribute and sell farm inputs on a
zonal basis. Retailing would be organized through the 19 existing agro
service centers, the 68 proposed smaller farm service centers and the 28 newly
constructed MRDC fertilizer stores. SASCO would actively support cooperative
involvement in input distribution, and suitable cooperatives would be selected
on a trial basis to retail farm inputs. In the event that any cooperatively-
mianaged FSC should not perform satisfactorily, the entire input supply opera-
tions of the concerned FSC would revert to SASCO. Fertilizers would be sold
a.t official subsidized prices (para 4.28), while chemicals and implements
would be sold at cost plus a 25% mark up. All inputs would normally be sold
on a cash basis, but occasionally seasonal credit would be provided for



- 32 -
inputs. The diesel pumps would be sold at their full sale price, for which
SASCO would be reimbursed by SCF (70% of the cost) and by FPDS (30% of the
cost). To prevent any large-scale involvement by SASCO in seasonal credit
its draft Articles of Association are to include a requirement that at any
time SASCO's outstanding loans would not exceed 10% of its paid-up capital.
D. Cooperative Development and Farm Credit
5.16      Cooperative development.  The growth of the cooperative movement in
Sokoto State has been principally in the development of marketing and credit
cooperatives. A number of structural and technical constraints have inhibited
the proper development of existing cooperatives and also the establishment of
new societies. Lack of professional staff and a low capital base is a common
problem facing all cooperatives. While the project would assist in redressing
these constraints (para 4.17), there would be no major reorganization of the
Cooperative Department. The Chief Registrar of Cooperatives would act as
the executing agent for the cooperative development proposals. SAPMU would,
however, release project funds for the cooperative component only on the
approval of SADPEC.
5.17      Farm Credit.  The two major sources of farm credit are the Farmer
Credit Scheme (FCS) and the Sokoto Cooperative Federation (SCF). The FCS is
an extremely weak organization (para 3.16), and is not expected to play an
important role under the project. The SCF, on the other hand, operates a
fairly well-managed credit system (loan recovery is about 90% of disbursements)
which reaches about 60,000 farmers throughout the state. Credit administra-
tion, however, is largely in the hands of the cooperative department staff.
This highly unsatisfactory arrangement is expected to improve, with the
proposed strengthening of cooperatives which would enable loan administra-
tion responsibility to pass on to the cooperative movement.
5.18      At present high levels of input subsidies, and given that project
recommendations are largely based on low-cost technology, the need for
project credit would be minimal. Limited credit would include: (a) seasonal
short-term credit to help cover costs of inputs and in some cases, for hired
labor, and (b) medium-term credit for irrigation pumps, implements, draft
animals, and land preparation. Although credit needs for project farmers
would differ depending on the type and level of operation, at full development
the average credit need for a 4.0 ha advanced farmer would be N350.  To
stimulate development in new areas where cooperatives are not immediately
available, SASCO would provide seasonal input credit and some medium-term
credit for farm implements excluding diesel pumps.  All other credit needs
would be met by SCF.  Assurances were obtained that SSG would take all
necessary steps to ensure the annual availability of adequate seasonal and
investment credit funds to SCF.
5.19      Fadama Development Grants.  To stimulate the uptake of improved
irrigation practices, the project will provide grants for land improvements
and for purchase of diesel pumps. To help administer the grant scheme, a



- 33 -
special Fadama Development Fund (FDF) would be established, administered by
SAPMU's Fadama Planning and Demonstration Section (FPDS). The pumps would be
stocked by SASCO and would be sold at 70% of their cost, for which medium-term
credit would be provided by SCF. Credit would, however, only be provided to
farmers recommended by FPDS, which will also assist in identifying potential
borrowers and in the preparation of their loan applications. To encourage
proper land levelling and bunding, some 10,000 fadama farmers would be offered
a grant equal to N100/ha for the first hectare developed. This is equiva-
lent to 30% of the individual (fadama) farmers landL development cost. First
priority would be given to farmers adopting diesel pump irrigation techniques.
However, to spread the benefits of the grant scheme over as many fadama
farmers as possible, grants are to be restricted to one hectare per farmer.
The total amount of grants for land development and diesel pumps over the
project period is estimated at US$7.7 (N4.3) million. During negotiations
it was agreed that, by January 1982, SSG would establish FDF with an initial
deposit of US$1.5 (NO.9) million, which represents the first year's grant
e:Lement.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation (M & E)
5.20      The project M & E effort has been designed keeping in mind the GADP
experience (para 2.04), which has shown the need for minimal data collection,
s:Lmple analytical techniques, and quick feedback. Overall responsibility for
M&E would be with a state-level Central Monitoring and Evaluation Section (CNES)
which would be headed by an internationally recruited evaluation specialist,
reporting directly to SADPEC. Field implementation would be through four
zonal M&E sections (ZMES), headed by evaluation officers and a team of field
enumerators. CMES would provide information to three users: SSG (through
SAPMU), FDRD through APMEPU, and the Bank. The main aim of the project's M&E
section will be to provide project management with information to aid imple-
mentation and ongoing planning. Monitoring would be concentrated on data of
key importance to the project progress, giving special attention to cost
elements including plant and vehicle utilization and civil works cost. For
this purpose, the monitoring staff would work closely with the project cost
accountant. Evaluation would focus on finding solutions to implementation
problems, and helping project management to adapt the project to changing
circumstances. Given the uncertainty surrounding data on farming in the
project area, there is a particular need for gathering reliable project level
agronomic and socio-economic data. The initial task of the M&E unit, would be
to collect baseline data, particularly in the northern, western and central
zones, on population, cropping patterns, farm systems, yields and farm incomes.
The M&E unit would also conduct, possibly with the collaboration of local
universities, selected farm level micro studies to help analyse changes due to
project intervention and other exogenous factors. Specific surveys would be
undertaken to monitor and evaluate the project's fadama development efforts.
Although the M&E unit would be largely self-contained with its own micro-
computer support and staff, it would be closely linked to APMEPU for technical
support for standard surveys, processing SADP evaluation data, and training
project M&E staff.



- 34 -
F. Post-Project Development
5.21      During the project, SSG staff would be increased and trained to
deliver a wide range of agricultural services and support to the rural popula-
tion, all under the coordination of SAPMU. At the end of the project, SAPMU's
operating divisions, technically stronger and accustomed to operating in a
coordinated way, would be absorbed into the MRDC. SADP's junior agricultural
staff would probably revert to LGs, leaving a smaller group of higher level
professional staff in MRDC. This staff, including the Program Manager and his
evaluation staff, would continue as a coordinating office, to be responsible
to the Commissioner of MRDC. It would plan and monitor the State Government's
rural development activities assigned to the executing ministries. The LGCs
and/or Joint Boards would take over the responsibility for rural infrastructure
including the maintenance of feeder roads and water supply facilities. CSDTS
would be returned to MANR, which would continue to train new staff for replace-
ment purposes and program expansion. Beginning at the fourth annual Implem-
entation Review (para 4.36) the Bank and SSG would discuss training and any
reorganization or management changes needed to reintegrate the project activi-
ties into the ministries at the end of the project. At the Year 4 implementa-
tion Review, or not later than January 1, 1985, SSG should submit to the Bank
and FGN detailed proposals for post-project organization (including training of
ad itional staff and managers) and finance. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations. The project provides consultancy funds to assist
SSG and SAPMU in formulating such proposals (para 4.22).
5.22      As regards the State's cooperative movement, it is expected that by
the end of the project, the institutional strengthening of SCF and the estab-
lishment of additional cooperative unions and societies would improve coop-
erative performance at all levels. Similarly, the establishment of the
Cooperative Bank (para 3.16) with an agricultural-credit section may lead to
the establishment of a state Agricultural Credit Bank. The Sokoto Agricul-
tural Services Company (SASCO) would continue to provide essential farmer
services, but its ownership is likely to become more broad-based with a major
share owned by the cooperatives.
VI. TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
A. Rainfed Farming
6.01      Farmers have responded well to the GADP agronomic recommendations.
It is therefore proposed to extend these to the remaining rainfed farming
areas of the state. Future development proposals would, however, give con-
sideration to zonal differences in agro-ecological conditions and socio-
economic factors including prevalent cropping systems (SWPC1 and 2). The
proposed technology, which is simple, relatively inexpensive and adapted to
local conditions would involve the timely and adequate use of fertilizers,
improved planting material, timely planting and increased planting density.



- 35 -
Special attention would be given to the cultivation of appropriate crop
mixtures. Although certain known crop combinations would be proposed, more
appropriate intercropping packages would be tested under the project's applied
research program (para 4.09). Detailed crop recommendations and yields/ha for
rainfed crop development are given in Annex 1, Table 1.
6.02      Improved seed produced by the project's seed farms would be made
available for varieties already accepted by GADP farmers. The majority of
farmers, particularly those cultivating millet and sorghum, would continue
producing their own seed requirements. Phosphatic fertilizer would be given
to all crops as a base application before planting and side placed below the
seed. Nitrogen fertilizers on cereals would be applied at the appropriate
time in the growing cycle. Potash fertilizers would be used on soils and
crops with favorable response. Fertilizer doses will vary with crops but
in the northern zone, with less rainfall, crops will generally receive smaller
doses to lessen the risk of drought years.
6.03      The majority of farmers are expected to apply improved practices to
their mixed-crop farms. The project would encourage crop combinations that
complement each other, thereby improving soil fertility. For example, the
project would emphasize the intercropping of a legume crop like cowpea or
groundnut with exhaustive crops like sorghum and millet. The area under
legume crops is expected to increase from 28% to 33% of cropped area, and the
cropping intensity from 140% to 147%. Groundnut cultivation would be mainly
promoted by providing farmers with Rossette-resistant varieties, fertilizers
and improved agronomic practices. Cowpea intercropping would require limited
amounts of fertilizer. In areas of 1,000 mm rainfall stretching to 170 days,
two short-duration (100-120 days) relay crops would be recommended; for
example, cowpeas would be relay cropped with sole-cropped maize. In all cases,
due care would be taken that the mixed or relay crops do not compete with
each other for nutrients and moisture from the same soil depth. Efforts would
also be made to ensure that the recommended crop combinations permit optimum
utilization of fertilizer inputs: for example, a succeeding crop should
benefit from the residual effect of phosphatic fertilizers used on an early
crop. Similarly, nitrogenous fertilizers, which are prone to leaching effects
of rain, would benefit a deep-rooted crop.
6.04      More sophisticated technology is proposed for farmers participating
in the ASP. Advanced recommendations would cover maize, groundnut, cotton and
rice crops. Apart from higher levels of fertilizer use, farmers would improve
crop mixtures and, where possible, grow sole crops, at higher levels of manage-
ment. Better weed control practices including low volume spraying would be
recommended. Farmers would be encouraged to make use of animal and tractor
drawn implements, mainly to reduce labor peaks and to facilitate better and
timely sowing of crops. Overall, the yield estimates for advanced farmers are
conservative and they allow for a gradual transformation from BSP to ASP. It
is expected that BSP and ASP would, by the end of five years, have improved crop
production on up to 44% of the total cultivated area, including 600,000 ha of
sorghum, 340,000 ha of millet, 430,000 ha of cowpeas, 165,000 ha of groundnuts,
98,000 ha of maize, 45,000 ha of cotton and 58,000 ha of rice. Net production
increases from the foregoing areas are estimated at an annual compounded
production growth rate of about 4% during the five-year project period.
Detailed production projection are shown in Annex 1, Table 3.



- 36 -
B. Fadama Development
6.05      Sokoto State's most valuable agricultural asset is its vast fadama
areas estimated to total 300,000 ha. Traditional irrigation is practiced on
only a fraction of those lands. Rice is grown on the Rima riverflood plains
under uncontrolled or semi-controlled flooding; dry season vegetables are
cultivated by tapping water from the rivers, reservoirs and shallow water
tables by means of the hand operated water lifting device known as "shadoof".
6.06      Much of this land will be or is already affected by the large-scale
irrigation schemes of the SRRBDA. Its storage reservoirs are expected to
radically alter the river basin's hydrological balance, its ecology and thus
the traditional fadama cropping systems. The project, therefore, would
assist farmers both to intensify their existing rainfed fadama crops and
promote the production of a second (dry season) crop, through small-scale
irrigation. Crop production would be increased by providing fertilizers,
better seeds and pesticides and by promoting timely planting, appropriate
planting techniques, and other improved agronomic practices. But the greatest
emphasis would be laid on adapting growing cycles (of rice in particular) to
changes in flooding patterns, and on making optimal use of the dry season
water resources. Some 25,000 ha would be thus developed: 12,400 ha in the
western, 6,400 ha in the northern, 2,200 ha in the eastern and 4,000 ha in the
central zone. The crops to be grown and estimated yields are detailed in
Annex 1, Table 4a, 4b, and 5.
6.07      Rainfed Fadama Crops.  The improvement of wet season fadama crops
would be undertaken on 10,000 ha, involving 7,000 ha cereals (rice, maize and
sorghum), 1,000 ha rootcrops (cassava, yams, and sweet potatoes) and 4,000 ha
sugarcane. Improvements in wet season rice production would be limited to the
introduction of new rice (Oryza sativa rather than 0. glaberrina) varieties,
adapted to the change in flood levels. Fertilizer application would only
be recommended where adequate water level control could prove feasible.
Fertilizer-responsive, high-yielding varieties of maize (both for grain and
green cobs) and dwarf sorghum would be promoted for planting at the tailend of
the rains, making use of residual moisture. Likewise, rootcrops would be
planted during the wet season for harvesting in December through March. The
project would also aim at intensifying wet-season sugarcane production on
some 2,000 ha.
6.08      Irrigated Fadama Crops.  By helping improve and expand small-scale
irrigation, the project would enable the economic exploitation of some 13,000
ha of fadama lands, including 3,000 ha dry season rice, 2,000 ha green maize,
1,000 ha wheat 2,000 ha sugarcane, and 7,000 ha of assorted vegetables inter-
cropped with 1,000 ha fruit crops. Supplemental irrigation would be made
possible by providing farmers (against credit) both motor-driven and hand-
operated pumps. The proposed technology would be relatively inexpensive and
easy to implement.



-37 -
6.09      Fertilizer-responsive, high yielding rice and maize varieties
would be grown on selected lands under advanced water management practices.
Irrigated wheat production would be promoted. A wide variety of vegetables
would be produced during the dry season. Some deep--rooted vegetables like
tomatoes, okra, eggplant, water melon and tobbaco are able to benefit from
soil moisture at greater depth and hence require only supplemental irrigation.
In contrast, shallow rooted vegetables, like onions, squashes, Irish potatoes,
carrots and cauliflower would depend entirely on irrigation. Project recom-
mendations would maximize the foregoing features, and promote both the inten-
sification and expansion to 7,000 ha of these valuable dry season crops,
making optimal use of residual moisture as a supplement to pumped irrigation.
The 2,000 ha of sugarcane production to be developed through supplemental
irrigation would have its harvesting and marketing season extended from
October to March.
Irrigation Techniques and Practices
6.10      Improved flood irrigation would be undertaken on selected lands
in the major river flood plains, where land preparation currently consists of
rudimentary systems of bunds, ridges and brushwood diversion structures.
Improvements would include construction of more permanent protective bunds at
locations which would be less exposed to floods, and provision for the removal
of excess water. For pumped supplemental irrigation, a supply ditch and
peripheral distribution ditches with check structures would be provided.
6.11      Pumped Irrigation would allow for the replacement of the "shadoof"
by more efficient low-lift, (manual or motorized) water lifting devices.
The purchase of 3-4" diesel driven pumps with a capacity of up to 75 m3 per
hour would be promoted among groups of from 3 to 5 farmers allowing them to
undertake cultivation on about 5.0 ha of land during the dry season. The
criteria for selecting the 5.0 ha area is discussed in the Project File
(SWPC2). In view of their innovative nature, pumps would not be introduced
on a large scale during PYI.
6.1.2     Technical Assistance.  To help fadama farmers make maximum use
of their irrigation investments, and to further develop the state's fadama
potential, it is proposed to set up a separate Fadama Planning and Development
Section (FPDS). FPDS's staff would include a senior irrigation agronomist, a
fadama development planner and a specialist in small-scale irrigation. The
major task of FPDS would be to undertake surveys in close association with the
land use planning unit, to locate fadama lands best suited for the development
envisaged, and to assist interested farmers in adapting the layout of their
"shadoof" irrigated gardens to the yield of modern water lifting devices.
FPDS would also conduct a program of farmer field trials and demonstrations to
introduce the proposed new technology, techniques and practices.
C. Feeder Roads
6.13      The tentative work program for the construction of about 1,700 km of
feeder roads is in the Project File (SWPC3). The implementation of the feeder
road program would be the direct responsibility of SAPMU. Road construction



- 38 -
would be carried out by four Zonal Road Construction Teams, (ZRCTs) including
the existing GADP road team. Each ZRCT would be headed by an experienced
roads engineer supported by a mechanical engineer responsible for the zonal
workshops, and other support staff. The feeder road engineering team would
be recruited internationally, through a consulting firm. To overcome the
shortage of experienced road construction operators and mechanics, the program
would be phased to allow for pre-construction training.
6.14       Based on the experience of GADP, the feeder roads would be built to
withstand axle loads of 10 tons and a traffic density of up to 100 vehicles
per day (vpd). In most areas, the road section would incorporate a 7.3 m
carriageway with 3% falls to "V" shaped side drains.  However, in the less
populous areas of the state, a narrower 5 m carriageway would be adopted. The
running course would be surfaced with gravel to a compacted depth of 15 cm.
In fadama areas subject to seasonal flooding, simple grading and compaction
would be carried out to improve dry season access. With the exception of the
existing motor scraper unit at GADP, all ZRCTs would be based on tipper units.
Watershed alignment would be adopted wherever possible, to minimize drainage
and subsequent maintenance requirements. Watershed alignments would create
the need for secondary connecting spurs to those villages cut off from the new
roads. The project would assist LGCs in undertaking these roadworks with
their own resources. In this way, LG would benefit from project expertise
and gain valuable experience and a sense of involvement in carrying out
their own road construction program. Drainage structures would be simple and
inexpensive.
6.15      Since at present LGCs have a limited road maintenance capability,
during the project period, SAPMU would have full responsibility for main-
taining the project feeder roads. SAPMU would carry out road maintenance
through four zonal road maintenance units (ZRMUs) to be established one year
after road construction. It is envisaged that in the post-project period, the
LGCs would take over the responsibility for the maintenance of project roads.
Local Government staff would therefore be trained under the project in road
construction and maintenance (para. 6.14), but individual LGCs would be
discouraged from establishing their own road construction/maintenance units.
Instead, LGCs would be encouraged to make full use of potential economies of
scale, so that road construction, resurfacing, grading and major drainage
repairs could be carried out by SADP and/or joint boards on a zonal basis
under LGC funding. It is expected, that by the end of the project, the four
ZRMUs would be upgraded into formal joint LGC boards--the 1976 local govern-
ment edict provides for such joint local government activities. The residual
work life of the SADP plant and equipment would be sufficient for the joint
road boards to launch their initial, periodic and routine maintenance opera-
tions. Moreover, in their road construction and maintenance operations, the
boards could contract out many specific tasks such as hauling gravel and
constructing of culverts.
6.16      The length of the roads which would require maintenance each year is
in the Project File (SWPC3). Hired tippers would be used for resurfacing, and
labor and hand tools for routine maintenance.  Each ZRMU would be largely
self-contained with regard to staff, equipment, buildings, including fuel



- 39 -
storage and simple mechanical facilities. These facilities would be used for
preventive maintenance and repairs. More sophisticated mechanical services
would be provided by zonal workshops under the control of SAPMU's engineer.
The Head of SAPMU's engineering section would advise on workshop design and
equipment, and would establish a unified mechanical stores system throughout
the zones. He would also develop a central mechanical spares procurement
organization relying on both local and overseas sources.
D. Rural Water Supply
6.17      The project would assist in the preparation of a statewide Rural
Water Supply (RWS) strategy collaborating with the MRDC's rural water supply
division, the State Water Board and thc SRRBDA and in consultation with LGCs.
At SAPMU level a RWS Planning and Management Section would be established.
The RWS section would have full responsibility for executing the project's
rural water supply program. It would be staffed with experienced and well-
qualified personnel in rural water supply planning, groundwater development,
and large-scale drilling operations. The RWS section would undertake an
updated survey of all communities to be served, their user requirements,
quantity and quality of available water resources, orders of priority and the
relative cost-effectiveness of alternative water supply systems. Moreover, an
implementation schedule would be worked out annually to clearly establish
individual responsibilities of the agencies involved in rural water supply.
6.18      The project's water supply program would consist of some 1,200
strategically located 4-6" boreholes equipped with handpumps, as well as
100 medium size 7-8" boreholes, to be equipped with motorized pumps, storage
tanks and stand pipe reticulation systems. The proposed program represents an
approximate order of magnitude only, and would be subject to amendment during
implementation, without changing the total capital funds provided.
6.19      Boreholes.  Sites would be selected by the RWS planning team, well
in advance of mobilization of drilling operations. In the hard rock areas of
the eastern half of the state, boreholes would be sited under a specialized
contract with hydrological consultants, who would make use of existing Side-
Looking Airborne Radar (SLAR) and other remote sensing imagery, while in the
sedimentary and alluvial strata electric resistivity depth probing would be
applied. The use of SLAR has proven effective in locating major joints and
lineaments in the hard rock formations and in the process has increased the
success rate in siting boreholes of satisfactory yield (1.0-2.0 m3/hr) from
the current 60% to over 90%. Borehole drilling, therefore, would be under-
taken with modern and versatile rigs, capable of rapid drilling using down-
the-hole percussion in the hardrocks of the Basement complex, and compressed
air/rotary drilling techniques in the sedimentary rocks and river alluvium or
aeolian deposits of the northern and western zones. Drilling would be under-
taken by qualified firms contracted under ICB. Further technical details are
in Project File (SWPC3).



- 40 -
6.20      Maintenance.  Drilling contractors, pump suppliers and project staff
would be expected to organize and supervise maintenance during the project
period following construction. They also would train LGA staff in borehole
drilling, pump installation and maintenance. The RWS maintenance program
would be organized on a three-tier basis to ensure its proper long-term
functioning: the village, LGA and zonal levels. The maintenance cost of all
RWS facilities, once commissioned, would be borne by the Sokoto State MRDC
and LGCs as appropriate, since direct cost recovery from users would not be
contemplated at this stage.
VII. MARKET PROSPECTS, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Market Prospects
7.01      Almost all studies of Nigeria's future food needs predict a widening
food deficit for the country over the 1985-1990 period. The Nigerian Agricul-
tural Sector Review projects the 1985 food deficit at around 6.6 million tons
of cereal equivalent increasing to 10.6 million tons in 1990. Food imports
have already soared from US$98.0 million in 1970 to about US$1.3 billion in
1978. Moreover, due to the increased migration of the rural population to the
towns, urban food demand is predicted to increase enormously in the future.
7.02      Estimates of the food balance within the project area must be
regarded as highly speculative since all the variables--population, culti-
vated area, yields and consumption per head--are subject to wide margins of
error. At an aggregate level, the State appears capable, in a typical year,
of feeding itself and perhaps generating a modest export surplus of food
over its own requirements. The estimated production of food crops (excluding
minor vegetables) in 1980, was 1.3 million tons grain equivalent. Based on an
estimated total population of 5.4 million, and a per capita consumption of
180 kg grain equivalent per annum, total consumption would be 1.0 million
tons, leaving a theoretical net production surplus of 300,000 tons. Extend-
ing the analysis to 1987, with a projected population of 6.1 million and a
targeted consumption level of 200 kg per capita, another 220,000 tons would be
added to gross consumption. Improved technology introduced under the project
should increase production by about 770,000 tons of cereal equivalent, leaving
a incremental marketable surplus of some 550,000 m/tons. This surplus would
be merely 5% of the 1990 national deficit. The demand for foodcrops is likely
to remain firm, in view of the growing urbanization and the increasing income
levels.
B. Marketing
7.03      The foodcrop marketing system in the State (para 3.17) is adapted to
existing production conditions and is thought to function quite efficiently.
The bulk of the state's output would be marketed within the state, with excess
production exported to food deficient states like Kano and Kaduna. Whereas



- 41 -
the existing marketing arrangements are adequate to handle modest increases in
production, they may prove inadequate in cases of large surpluses. Selective
acl:ion through market infrastructure improvements to be financed under the
project (para 4.15) would improve marketing efficiency.
7.04      Some problems of localized surplus are likely to arise for maize,
wh:ich enters only peripherally into the local diet. About 80% of incremental
production may be considered marketable and would most likely be exported to
the south. Past experience on ongoing projects has shown that the paucity of
information on prices and supplies increases the risk associated when moving
coramodities like maize and sorghum at long distances. Such risks could be
reduced with effective support from the Nigerian Grains Board (NGB) which
is in the process of streamlining its buying operations. To ensure proper
coordination between NGB and the project, it was agreed during negotiations
that SASCO would be empowered, as a LBA, to organize, when necessary, tem-
porary buying markets on behalf of NGB, in the main producing areas. SASCO
would receive a nominal commission for acting as NGB's marketing agent. The
objective should be to provide support to the market (at a preannounced floor
price) rather than to buy a predetermined tonnage on behalf of NGB at any
price or regardless of market conditions. Although price security to farmers
is the main reason for the proposed intervention, it is expected that NGB
would buy only at the minimum guaranteed price. For the farm budgets and
economic analysis, the farmgate price for maize has been taken to be that
which is expected to prevail in the main maize-consuming centers of the south.
Despite its relatively lower market price, farmers are likely to prefer maize
over sorghum, since it has higher overall returns. Improved maize yields are
1500 kg/ha as compared to 800 kg/ha for sorghum. Price differentials do not
compensate for lower sorghum yield.
7.05      The project's incremental rice production is estimated to reach
70,000 m/tons by PY5. Rice is a highly preferred staple and given that
Nigeria currently imports 550,000 m/tons of rice per annum, project production
would be effective import substitution.  In a competitive situation, however,
much would depend upon the quality of local rice. The existing hand-pounded
local variety rice is of poor quality, and there would be the need to introduce
small-scale rural rice husking mills, with a 0.5-1.0 tpd capacity. Since the
Bank's Agricultural Technical Assistance Project (Report 3207-UNI) includes
provisions for identifying future agro-industries, no specific provision is
being made for agro-processing. However, SAPMU's marketing officer would
review annually the project's agro-industrial processing needs, and inform the
Kaduna FASU where and when new installations are needed.
7.06      Given that Nigeria is dependent on cotton imports with domestic
consumption running at 300,000 bales annually, any incremental project produc-
tion should be easily absorbed by the textile industry. The statutory market-
ing arrangements for the crop remain unsatisfactory, however, and despite
increased prices farmers are reluctant to grow the crop. SASCO should, like
the GADP, be gazetted as a cotton LBA and work with the NCB to improve local
cotton marketing practices. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations.



- 42 -
7.07      Vegetable production would be mostly for consumption within the
state. However, non-perishable vegetables such as chillies, potatoes and
onions would be sold in the major cities outside the state. With increasing
incomes, and growing urbanization, no problem is foreseen in marketing
project-related surplus. However, in view of the specialized nature of
vegetable marketing, it is proposed that the project's marketing section would
take a lead role in monitoring vegetable production, and in promoting coopera-
tives or group marketing schemes to reduce marketing costs and coordinate
sales.
C. Prices
7.08      The two most important factors determining agricultural prices
in Nigeria are the Government's fiscal and trade policies. Over the last
three years the following pattern has emerged: the massive public investment
and trade restrictions prior to 1978 contributed to domestic inflation that
kept local food prices rising well above world market levels. Subsequent cuts
in government spending accompanied by an unprecedented level of food imports
led to economy-wide price declines in 1979. The renewed level of spending in
1980 is now expected to spark a new round of inflation, which has already
caused an upward movement in domestic food prices. In the midst of this
rather erratic price behavior, one conspicuous feature has been the high
ratio of domestic to world market prices for tradeable commodities like maize
and sorghum. Even in 1979, a year of declining prices, domestic prices for
maize, sorghum, groundnut were one half to two-thirds higher than import
parity prices. Given the predicted food deficits, quantitative trade restric-
tions, and logistic difficulties in obtaining imported food, it is quite
likely that high domestic food prices would continue for sometime.
7.09      Financial prices for farm budgets are based on observed 1980 local
(Sokoto State) market prices and do not take account of projected real price
increases of main outputs. More conservative assumptions were made for maize,
however, since marketable surpluses would be disposed outside the immediate
project area. The financial price for cotton is taken to be the 1980 NCB
official buying price. Groundnuts are assumed to be marketed privately,
and the prevailing local market price has been used. Economic prices for
potentially traded goods have been based on import parity assumptions using
IBRD world price forecasts for maize, sorghum, rice, wheat, groundnuts and
cotton. The economic price for millet (which is not extensively traded
internationally) is based on that for sorghum since the two are near sub-
stitutes. Detailed calculations of financial and economic farmgate prices
of various agricultural commodities are in Project File (SWPC8) and are
summarized in the following Table 3.



- 43 -
Table 3: SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL AND ]ECONOMIC
FARMGATE PRICES
(Constant 1982 prices N/ton)
Product                  Financial                   Economic
Actual 1980              1982       1985
Sorghum                     290                   202        205
Millet                       290                  202        205
Maize                        200                   90         94
Cowpeas                     500                   345        345
Paddy Rice                   335                  224        234
Groundnut                   320                   364        319
Wheat                          -                  250        255
Cotton                      400                   555        622
VIII.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Financial Implications for Farmers
8.01      Two rainfed farm models have been constructed to represent upland
cultivation. These models are based on likely crop combinations and assume
100% adoption of improved or advanced practices on the family's entire holdings.
Given the wide variation to be expected in cropping patterns and adoption
rates , however, the models should be taken as illustrative only. The first
4.0 ha farm model represents farming in the relatively wetter upland areas of
the three southern zones, where sorghum, millet, cowpeas, and some maize and
cotton are grown. The second model depicts farming in the drier northern
zone where, under traditional practices, millet is the main crop, with sorghum,
cowpea, and groundnut intermixed. The financial returns to farmers and farm
budgets are detailed in the Project File (SWPC2, table 1) and summarized
below:
Table 4: SUMMARY OF 4.0 HA FARM BUDGETS
(Unsubsidized Prices)
Southern Zone               Northern Zone
W/Op          W/P      W/P        W/OP          W/P
Traditional  Improved Advanced  Traditional   Improved
Family Farm Income        647        1,141      1,481         593         1,014
Income Per Capita         100          176        228          91           156
Income per labor-day        2.16         2.70       3.L7        2.44          2.61



- 44 -
Most project area farms would be manually cultivated rainfed units. If the
models are calculated with subsidized fertilizer prices, the farmers' income
(in constant 1982 prices) for both models would increase by about 10%. Adop-
tion of improved practices would considerably increase labor requirements
in the southern zones (from 300 m/day to 527 m/day), but labor use would be
spread more evenly over the season, thereby keeping down the cost of hired
labor. Some peak labor requirements in May and June, largely for thinning and
weeding, would be met by hiring labor of up to N5.00 per day to supplement
the available 60 family labor days/month. Overall the benefits appear suffi-
ciently attractive to encourage adoption.
8.02      Comparisons of per capita incomes based on farm budgets with income
data based on national accounts aggregates must be interpreted with caution
under most circumstances. The unavailability of recent national accounts,
the unreliable population estimates and the often conflicting GDP deflators
make this especially true for Nigeria. It is possible to give some rough
indication of the relative economic position of project beneficiaries. Bank
estimates place Nigeria's 1979 per capita income at N367 or US$670, the
relative rural poverty level at N98 (US$162) and the absolute rural poverty
level at N125 (US$207). GADP evaluation results indicate that 70 to 80% of
family income can be imputed to crops raised for consumption on the farm. For
the subsistence farmer of Sokoto State, represented by the traditional cultiva-
tion model, this would mean per capita incomes of N128 (US$233) in the
southern zones and Nlll (US$207) in the northern zone. Under improved
practices, and assuming no drop in other income, per capita income could
increase to N219 (US$398) in the southern zones and N189 (US$343) in the
northern zone. These represent income gains of nearly 70% in each case, but
are still well short of the national average.
8.03      To illustrate the potential returns from small-scale irrigation, a
hypothetical model has been developed of a 5 ha plot farmed by 5 farmers
each owning 1 ha of fadama land. The farm would be irrigated by a 3" diesel
pump. Initial land development costs and the cost of the pump would be sub-
sidized, with the unsubsidized portion financed by a medium-term loan (paras
5.15-5.19) The farm budget takes account of the farmer's labor needs for
upland crops. Accordingly, most labor for the first two months of cultiva-
tion, September and October, would be hired at N5/day. Estimated returns
per manday from a 5.0 ha irrigated farm rise from N3.48 in the first year of
adoption to N1O.50 in the fifth year, by which time the farmers have gained
experience in this new type of cultiivation. Net income per farmer would
increase from N456 to N1,541. Relative to rainfed farming, returns to
irrigated cultivation are quite high. Even in the first year, when the farmer
is still learning this practice, returns are higher than those achievable from
advanced manual upland cultivation. The overall financial rate of return for
investment in a 5.0 ha irrigated farm is estimated to be over 50%. The risks
involved are quite high, however. A 25% decline in producer prices, or
expected production, would reduce net income 50% in the first year and 34% in
year 5. Further, the farmers would face overhead costs of N818 p.a. to
repay their loan plus N425 in labor costs at the beginning of the season
before harvest prospects are known; thus, the farmers would face real hardship
if production or prices dropped below expected levels. Given the inherent
risks of this type of investment, a high rate of return is necessary, to
attract uptake.



- 45 -
B. Financial Implications to Governments
8.04      The project will generate little direct Government revenue, as
farmers' output is not taxed and the Cotton, Groundnut and Grains Marketing
Boards are not revenue producers for FGN at present price levels. There
will, however, be some spin-off of incremental farm income in expanded non-
agricultural activities and increased spending by project beneficiaries on
consumer goods and imports subject to tax. A precise quantification of such
increased tax revenue is not possible. Small amounts of additional revenue
might be generated at the State or Local Government level through increased
payments of market-related fees.
8.05      Financial costs to the SSG during the project period may be divided
into three categories: (a) the State's share of project costs, which in
current price terms would be about N58.4 million over the five-year period,
excluding input subsidies, but including N3.0 million equity contribution to
SAiSCO and NO.5 million equity contribution to cooperatives; (b) the State's
responsibility to maintain existing non-incremental services, estimated at
N20.5 million in constant base terms, or N28.8 million in current terms
over the five-year period; and (c) the State share of farm inputs, for which
the total cost to the State is estimated at N87.2 million (current prices)
irn fertilizer subsidies. Total State expenditure in current price terms would
come to about N174.4 million (US$317 million), an average of N34.9 million
per annum. In addition, the State would be obliged to prefinance expenditures
eligible for IBRD reimbursement in the early stages of project implementation.
The precise amounts involved would depend on the speed and efficiency with
which disbursement applications were submitted and much of this prefinancing
could be taken care of through the project's overdraft facility. The State's
existing level of budgetary allocations for agriculture are considered ade-
quate to meet project expenditures. In its Fourth Plan SSG has allocated
nearly N200 million for the proposed project and related activities (feeder
roads, water supplies, fertilizer subsidies) out of a development budget of
N1.0 billion.
8.06      Direct FGN input would amount to N138.8 million (current prices)
or an average N27.8 million annually, assuming the continuation of existing
subsidy policies. Fertilizer subsidies represent N94.2 million. In 1987
prices, federal fertilizer subsidies in the post-project period would be about
N44.0 million a year. The project's subsidy elements are relatively small in
overall fiscal terms and within Government's financing ability. Moreover, it
is Government's declared policy to transfer its oil revenues to the rural
sector.
C. Cost Recovery
8.07      SASCO would recover all costs for procurement and distribution of
seeds, chemicals, sprayers and agricultural implements through adequate mark-
ups. SASCO's cost recovery practices would be reviewed annually by SSG, FGN
and the Bank in the light of SASCO's annual report audited accounts and



- 46 -
operations program to ensure that costs are fully recovered. Calculation of
the mark-ups that would be required are shown in the Project File (SWPC5). In
the case of irrigation (fadama) development the project would provide technical
advice, including basic surveying, to farmers, without charge. But actual land
development, including land levelling and field bunding, would however be the
farmers' responsibility.
IX. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.   Project Benefits
9.01      The project's two main benefits are closely related.  Improving the
management and staffing, and hence the effectiveness of the State Ministry of
Rural Development and Cooperatives, the cooperative institutions and the LGCs,
and the establishment of the new SASCO, will enable a large number of Sokoto
State's 688,000 farm families to raise their productivity and incomes. The
effects of project packages on farm incomes are quantified in Chapter VIII.
9.02      As a third in a series of Bank-assisted statewide agricultural
development projects, the project will attempt to introduce, on a larger
scale, many of the successful management and organizational techniques adopted
in the limited area ADPs already in progress. This strategy has been adopted
by the Government in its efforts to meet Nigeria's projected food deficit and
channel more resources, more efficiently, to the rural sector.
9.03      There are an estimated 688,000 farm-families in the project area,
and assuming (on experience from existing ADPs) that 70% of farmers adopt some
of the project recommendations, then some 482,000 families (3.1 million
individuals) will benefit directly from the project's agricultural components.
Others will benefit from infrastructural components (rural roads and water
supplies, paras. 4.11, 4.13). The project is not designed primarily to
increase the number of persons employed in agriculture, and there is nothing
in the technological packages to inhibit their adoption within the present
labor supply, although economic analysis assumes an increased labor input of
some 53 million labor days per annum at full development. In view of the
present highly uneven seasonal pattern of labor utilization, emphasis will be
placed on eliminating bottlenecks and raising productivity of off-season
labor. The adaptive research program, simple on-farm mechanization and
oxenization, fadama upgrading and the water supply program are all among
project components which would help realize this aim.



- 47 -
9.04      Formal analysis of the economic return on the rural water supply
program would not be meaningful because of the practical impossibility of
quantifying and then internalizing the different forms of benefits into an
indicator like the rate of return. Further, a substantial but uncertain
amount of benefits will be qualitative, due to an iimprovement in the safety
of water supply. Also, additional labor will be released for other produc-
tive tasks. The subcomponent was thus designed on a cost-minimization basis,
as the lowest cost means of bringing safe perennial water supplies to a sub-
stantial number of rural people in a reasonable time. Once the cost advantages
of a large competitive borehole tendering approach have been demonstrated,
the state might well choose to replicate the program for other communities.
However, in view of non-quantifiability of benefits, the subcomponent is
excluded from the calculation of project rate of return. Benefits from the
road subcomponent are only partially quantifiable. In some cases poor com-
mLanications may otherwise impede participation in the project altogether; on
the other hand, no specific benefits are imputed to reduced transport costs
and ensuing improvements in farmers' terms of trade. A survey of locally
produced food prices in the Bauchi ADP project area (1968) found differences,
in the extreme, of up to 1000% depending upon accessibility, while differences
of 100% were typical.
B.   Economic Rate of Return
9.05      The project's economic rate of return (ERR) is about 20%, and its
net present value (NPV) discounted at 11%, the estimated opportunity cost of
capital in Nigeria, is about N99.1 million.
9.06      The ERR was calculated on the basis of incremental costs and output.
Project life was assumed to be 25 years, including a five-year investment
period during which statewide develpment activities would be substantially
completed. For the calculation of project costs, farm inputs were costed at
full, unsubsidized economic cost. Incremental on-farm labor was costed at
NL.75 per day, representing the average daily productivity in unimproved
agriculture when all outputs are valued in economic terms.  Other local costs
were converted to border naira using a standard conversion factor (SCF) of
0.83 for costs, and 0.69 for economic prices of non-traded outputs.  This
adjustment allows for distortions to local costs resulting from import duties,
quotas, and similar factors.  Local costs used base period prices, on the
grounds that continued disparity between domestic and international inflation
will at some stage result in either an exchange rate adjustment or increased
trade restrictions (hence a fall in the SCF), while a delay in such adjustment
would represent a political choice to apply oil "rent" to consumption.
Project benefits comprise the value of incremental crop production, priced at
border farmgate prices derived from import parity for internationally traded
goods and their immediate substitutes; and from domestic prices of non-traded
outputs. Import parity prices were based on IBRD forecasts for 1981-1990 in
constant 1982 dollars, converted at the official exchange rate. Because of
t'he inherent time lags between inputs and outputs in agriculture, half the
benefits arising from production in any given year are assumed to accrue in
the following year. See Project File (SWPC8) for detailed assumptions behind
the economic analysis.



- 48 -
C. Sensitivity Analysis and Project Risks
9.07      Sensitivity Analysis:  The sensitivity of the ERR to changes in cost
or benefit streams was tested using switching values--the percentage in a
stream or streams which would reduce the ERR to its minimum acceptable value
of 11%. Total project benefits would have to decline by 9%, or total costs
increase by 10%, for the ERR to drop to 11%. The switching values for upland
crop benefits, -68%; and for grain crop benefits, -18%. The switching value
for the cost of project services (excluding farm labor and inputs) was 87%;
for on-farm labor costs, 17% and for fertilizer costs, 31%. Analysis of
sensitivity to adoption rates showed that a 50% decline in the expected
adoption of the upland crop package would reduce the ERR to 15%; while a 50%
decline in adoption of the fadama crop package would reduce the ERR to 16%.
A 2-year lag in adoption of either the upland package or the fadama package
would reduce the ERR to 17%.
9.08      Project Risks.  Although the project's sensitivity analysis indicates
that the project can tolerate some latitude in projected values, it is important
that divergences in costs, yields and timing be minimized. From past experience,
the risks most likely to affect project success would be irregular and untimely
local funding, and an inefficient input supply system. These risks were fully
recognized during project preparation, and adequate assurances would be sought
in each area (Chapter X). There is practically no risk associated with the
project's upland crop developmment proposals, since the recommended practices
are fairly simple and well tested both at research station and farm level.
Nevertheless, further refinements, particularly in the area of mixed cropping,
would result from the project's applied research program. The adoption of
diesel pump irrigation is a potential risk. In spite of its financial attrac-
tiveness, farmers may be reluctant to experiment, as it could prove risky in
the absence of adequate maintenance and repair services. The project emphasis
on a reliable advisory and back-up service (para 6.12) would allay the farmers
fears. Despite such measures however, the development period for this component
could take longer than anticipated. The sensitivity analysis shows that even
a substantial reduction of benefits from the 10,000 ha under advanced irrigated
areas is unlikely to affect project viability.
X. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
10.01     During negotiations for the proposed loan, the following principal
issues were discussed and agreements reached with FGN and SSG and specified as
conditions in the Loan and Project Agreements:
Financial Conditions
a)   SSG would maintain current levels of expenditure for agriculture,
adjusted for inflation, in addition to its contributions to project
costs (para 4.26);



- 49 -
b)   SSG would provide SASOD, in advance on September 1 of each year,
equity payments as working capital, totalling N3 million during
the first two years of the project period, and would annually review
and agree with the Bank, SASCO's cost recovery policies and practices
to ensure that costs of any input or services be fully recovered
(paras 4.28, 4.29 and 8.07);
c)   FGN and SSG would each provide its share of project costs to the
project quarterly and in advance, these sums to be paid into the
SAPMU's bank account. Bank reimbursements would also be made
directly to the SAPMU commercial bank account (para 4.29);
d)   in the event that SSG were delinquent in paying its quarterly share
of project costs into the project account, FGN would be authorized
to pay SSG's contribution directly from the State's statutory
allocation (para 4.29);
e)   SSG would further agree to contribute N 0.5 million towards the
working capital of cooperative unions and primary societies (para
4.17);
f)   SSG would take all necessary steps to ensure the annual availability
of agricultural credit funds to SCF;
g)   not later than January 1, 1982, SSG would establish a Fadama Devel-
opment Fund, with an initial contribution of US$1.5 million (para
5.19);
Project Administration Conditions
h)   SSG would make available suitable land measuring 100 ha for the
establishment of a seed farm in the Western Zone (para 4.08);
i)   responsibility for all agricultural extension work in the State
would be transferred to SAPMU and existing agricultural staff of
LGCs, MRDC, and (selected) MANR would be seconded to SAPMU (para
5.06);
j)   SSG would review annually with SAPMU and the LGs arrangements for
the maintenance of roads and water supply facilities, and for staff
training, providing as necessary the funds required for these
purposes (paras 6.16 and 6.17);
k)   procurement (para 4.30), budgeting, audit and reporting (para 4.22)
requirements would be satisfactory to the Bank;
1)   consultants (para 4.20) and senior SAPMU staff (listed in para 5.08)
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, would be
appointed on satisfactory terms and conditions, and according to
agreed recruitment procedures (para 5.09);



- 50 -
m)   not later than January 1, 1985, SSG would make recommendations for
the future of project activities and the post-project organization
(para 5.22);
n)   SSG would gazzette SASCO as a LBA of the Nigerian Cotton and Grains
Board (paras 7.04-7.06);
Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
o)   a subsidiary loan agreement between FGN and SSG, acceptable to the
Bank, had been signed (para 4.29);
p)   FGN and SSG had each made its initial contribution of N3.0
million to SAPMU's bank account (para 4.29);
q)   overdraft facilities for SAPMU, equivalent to N5.0 million,had been
arranged in a commercial bank and guaranteed by SSG (para 4.29);
r)   an Action Plan detailing the first project year implementation
program acceptable to the Bank had been drawn up (para 4.36);
s)   SSG had established SARDPC, SADPEC and SAPMU (paras 5.02 and 5.05);
t)   SSG had established SASCO with an initial equity payment of N2.0
million of which SCF would contribute N1.0 million (para 5.13);
u)   SSG has prepared a draft managing contract for supply of staff to
SASCO which is agreeable to the Bank (para 5.14); and
v)   SSG has established a project staff recruiting agency satisfactory
to the Bank (para 5.09).
10.02     On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$147.0 million.



Table 1.
NIGERIA
SO'OTO AGRICUT'URA'L DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Upland Crop Recomesndations
Seed
Rate                             -ertili-ero  (kg/ha)    Muri.te of                                 Yield
Crop     Zone       Technology            Varieties               Crop Mieturee                            (kg/ha)    Spacing           Comp.   SSP   CAN   Urea  Potash          Crop Protection (kl/ha)  (kg/ha)
1/
Sorghum  North      Traditional           Traditional            Moltifario.s crop mix (nondescript)                   I.di.crimioat.                                             Nil                          500
Ip-ooed (50%)       Traditional             Sorghum/Cowpea-                          12          I.Om x 0.5O S      00                                       Nil                         800
Improved (50%)       YC 5760                 Sorghum/Cowpeas                                      .lO O    O .5m             100                              Nil
E,C,W,   Traditional            Traditional            aMltifarioua n.ode-cript crop mio                                                                                                             500
Improved (50%)       Traditienal             Sorghum/Cowpeas                          12                            100                                                                   900
Improved (50%)       Traditional             Sorghum/Ground nut                       12                                     100                                                          900
Advanced             So-ghum 1499            Sorgfoo/Gr..nd nut                       15                            150       50                                                        1,200
Millet   N,E,C,W   Traditional            Traditio.l              Multifarious mixes (nonde-cript)                                                                                                             300
Improved (50%)       Cx Berne-               Millet/Ceop.as                            8                            100                                                                   600
(50%)      N.C.A.                  Millet/Ground not                          8                                    100    50                                                     600
Cowpea   N          Traditional           Traditional mix         Multifarious crop mixes (nondescript) 10                                                                                                     150
Improved             I.F.E. Breve            Cowpeas/Millet                           20                                     100                              0.5 lit/hn
Malathion equivalent        500
E,C,W     Traditional                                                                            5O 200
Improved             VITA 5                  Covpea/Relay with Maiee 096              25                                    10 0
Cop.peas/Millet mix or Relay
Groundnut N         Traditional           Traditional mix         G'nt/Millet/Sorghum/Cotton               30                                                                                                  200
Improvad             F 452-4/G153 or 561   G'nrt/Mil1et                               45                                     10O                                                          500
E,C,W     Traditional           Traditional mix         G'nCt/Millet/Iorghum/Cotten/Veg.         30                                                                             '                    300
Improved             Sana.ru 61 or           Groundnut/Sorghum                        50                                     100                                                          600
Advanced             69-101                  G'not/Moi-e qr G'nut/Millet              60                                     200                                                         1,000
Cotton   E,C,W      Traditionel                                   Cotton mix with                 maize   10                                                                                                   150
Improved             S 72 or                 Cotton/Gnut or cotton relay after/   20               75cm x 50m       100                                                                    400
Advanced             S 77                    Solo cotton or Cotton/coopeas            25           75cm x 25cm      100             500                       One lit Malathion/HN  av.  800
Maiec    E,C,W      Traditional           Tr.dition.l vacrity                                              10                                                                                                  600
UIproved             TZB or 5123             Maize/Groundnut                          15          60cm x 45cm       150              50                                                 1,200
Advanced             TZB                     Sole maioe followed by cowpeas Cotton 20              30cm x 30cm      250             100                                                  2,000
Paddy    N,C,W      Traditional           Globorina mi.          Mixture of rice varieties         depth  40                                                                                                   600
Rice               Improved              Faro                    Sin.le pore variety suiting vater/    60                                                                                                   1,200
Advanced             Faro 15/Fare 12                                                   80                           100                                                                  1,800
Irrigated            IR.8                                                             80                                     150          100    50                                     2,500
1/ Fertilizer differences only depending on soil -nIlysis (Comp. or SSP)
2/ E. Rorno especially for Northern Zone
JCMiller/pa 12/18/80



NIGERIA
Sokoto Agricultural Development Project
Upland Crop Development Projections
State Total
HA'000
Yr. 5
Incremental              Yr. 5
0             1              2             3              4             5                   I + A                 %  I + A
Sorghum    - Traditional          1,332.0        1,245.0       1,130.0        1,012.0        870.0          703.0
Improved               50.0         116.0          202.0         288.0         386.0         506.0
Advanced                               8.0          24.0          43.0          70.0          100.0
Total               1,382.0       1,369.0        1,356.0       1,343.0       1 326.0       1 1OQ n                556                     46%
Millet      - Traditional         1,109.0        1,061.0         996.0          899.0        797.0          686.0
Improved               21.0          64.0          112.0         186.0         264.0         343.0
Total               1,130.0       1,125.0        1,108.0       1,085.0       1,061.0       1,029.0                322                     33%
Maize       - Traditional             13            12             14            16            18            22
Improved                8            14             24            36            51            68
Advanced                2              4             9             14           20             30
Total                  23             30            47            66            89           120                   88                     82%
Cowpea      - Traditional           873            847           807            741          668            570
Improved                             40            103           191           300           430
Total                 873           887            910           932           968         1,000                  430                     43%
Groundnut  - Traditional            138            138           132            126          120            111
Improved               25            26             43            65            95           137
Advanced               13             14            16             19           23             28
Total         i        76           178            191           210           238           276                  100                     60%
Cotton      - Traditional             77            75             72            68            62            55
Improved                7            10             15            21            27             34
Advanced                -              -             -              1            5             11
Total                  84            85             87            90            94           100                   38                     45%
Rice          Traditional            91             88             79.5          69.5         57.4           43.0
Improved                1             4             12.5          22.2          36.0          52.0                                                         -3
Advanced                -              -             -              1.3          3.6            6.0                                                           f
Total                  92            92             92.0          93.0          97.0         101.0                 57                     57%              M
Total Cropped Area                3,760.0        3,766.0       3,791.0        3,819.0      3,873.0        3,935.0
Cropping Intensity 2,679.1          140%           141%          142%           1437.        145%           1477.
Improved Area                       127.0          300.0         560.5          887.5      1,280.6       1,745.0              1,706                     444%
% Improved Area                        3%            8%           15%            23%          33%            44%



Nigeria
Sokoto Agricultural Development Project
Upland Crop Production Projections
State Totals
Tons '000
%Increase           Average Yield
0       1        2        3        4        5       Yr. 5             Yr. 0       Yr. 5        % Increase
Sorghum       Total            711.0   734.9   772.4   812.0   860.0   917.3                           514        700             36%
Incremental               23.9    61.4   101.0   149.0   206.3         29%
Millet        Total            345.3   356.7   367.0   381.3   397.5   411.6                           305        400             317.
Incremental               11.4    21.7    36.0    52.2    66.3         19%
Maize         Total             21.4    32.0    55.2    80.8   112.0   154.8                           930      1,290             39%7
Incremental               10.6    33.8    59.4    90.6   133.4    623%                                                                  >
Cowpea        Total            191.6   205.9   228.4   257.9   296.4   340.2                           219        340             55%
Incremental               14.3    36.8    66.3   104.8   148.6         78%
Groundnut    Total              65.2    66.8    77.1    91.4   111.3   138.3                           370        500             35%
Incremental                1.6    11.9    26.2    46.1    73.1    112%
Cotton        Total             14.3    15.3    16.8    19.4    24.0    30.7                           170        307             80%
Incremental                1.0      2.5      5.1      9.7    16.4    115%
Rice          Total             56.1    58.8    67.0    79.8   100.0   123.3                           610      1,220            100%
Incremental                2.7      8.2    23.7    44.3    67.2    120%
mx
Lo~ I-'



54 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4a
NIGERIA
SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Wet Season Fadama Crop Recommendations -
Year of Adoption               0       1        2       3        4       5
Cereals 2
ielr d 2/               tons/ha       0.8      1.0     1.2      1.6     2.0
Fertilizer
Compound 15:15:15    kg/ha           -    150.0   175.0   200.0   250.0
Urea                  kg/ha          -                               50.0
Chemicals
SeeA dressing         kg/ha          -      0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05
Seed iy                 kg/ha          -     20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0
Root Crops
Yield                   tons/ha       5.0      7.0     9.0    11.0    13.0        15.0
Fertilizer
Compound 15:15:15    kg/ha           -    100.0   150.0   200.0   250.0        250.0
Urea                  kg/ha          -     50.0    50.0    50.0   100.0        125.0
Chemicals
Malathion or equiv.  1/ha            -      0.3      0.4      0.5     0.7        1.0
Seed  !/
Sugarcane
Yield                   tons/ha      20.0    30.0    35.0    40.0    45.0         50.0
Fertilizer
Compound 15:15:15    kg/ha           -    200.0   300.0   400.0   400.0        400.0
Urea                  kg/ha          -     50.0    75.0   100.0   125.0        150.0
Chemicals
Malathion or equiv.  1/ha            -       1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0        1.0
Seed                    kg/ha          -  3,000.0  3,000.0 3,000.0 3,000.0  3,000.0
1/  Crops dependent on rain or residual moisture available during at least part of
the dry season, requiring no supplemental irrigation.
2/  Yields are weighted averages of yields for rice, maize and sorghum.
3/  Seed required for incremental hectarage only.
4/  Seed will be mainly farmers' own; project will make available disease-free
varieties.
JMiller:esf
11/25/80



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4b
NIGERIA
SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigated Fadama Crop Recommendations -/
Year of Adoption                   1           2           3          4
Cereals 2/
Yield                   tons/ha               1.5         2.0        2.5
Fertilizer
Compound 15:15:15    kg/ha               150.0       200.0       200.0
Urea                  kg/ha                -           -          50.0
Chemicals
Seed dressing         kg/ha                0.05        0.05        0.05
Seed 3/                 kg/ha               20.0        20.0        20.0
Suga rcane
Yield                   tons/ha              30.0       35.0        40.0        50.0
Fertilizer
Compound 15:15:15    kg/ha               200.0       300.0       400.0       400.0
Urea                  kg/ha               50.0        75.0       100.0       150.0
Chemicals
Malathion or equiv.  1/ha                  1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0
Seed 3/                 kg/ha                 3.0        3.0         3.0         3.0
Vegetables
Yield                   tons/ha              15.0        18.0       22.0        25.0
Fertilizer
Compound 15:15:15    kg/ha               200.0       225.0       250.0       300.0
Urea                                      50.0        75.0        75.0       100.0
Chemicals
Malathion or equiv.  1/ha                   1.0         1.0        1.5         1.5
Seed 4/                                       -           -          -           -
1/  Crops dependent on supplemental or full irrigation throughout the year.
2/  Mainly rice in western zone, wheat in northern zone, and maize/rice in eastern
and central zones.
.3/ Seed required for incremental hectarage only.
4/  Produced by farmers or imported as needed.
JMiller:esf
11/2.5/80



- 56
ANNEX 1
Table 5
NIGERIA
SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fadama Crop Development Projections
(hectares)
PYO        PY1         PY2         PY3         PY4        PY5
Wet Season Crops 1/
Cereals
Traditional               7,000       6,300        5,325      3,925      2,025      -
Improved                   -            700        1,675     3,075       4,975   7,000
Rooterop s
Traditional               1,000       1,900          770        545        250      -
Improved                                100          230        455        750   1,000
Sugarcane
Traditional               2,000       1,800        1,505     1,080         565      -
Improved                   -            200          495        920      1,435   2,000
Irrigated Crops 2/
Cereals 3/                   -           -             600     1,750       3,425   6,000
Vegetables                   -            300        1,000      2,150      4,275   7,000
Sugarcane                                -             200        500      1,000   2,000
TOTAL
1/ Crops dependent on rain and/or residual moisture available during at least part of
the dry season. No supplemental irrigation required for development, only
fertilizer and improved planting material.
2/ Crops dependent on full on supplemental irrigation throughout the dry season.
Requires introduction of pumps and land preparation as well as fertilizer and improved
planting material.
3/ Ma or cereal crops by zone: Western - rice; Northern - wheat; Central and Eastern -
maize and rice.
12/09/80
JMiller:sg



NIGERIA
SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fadama Crop Production Projections
(tons'000)
PYO     PYi      PY2      PY3      PY4      PY5      PY6      PY7      PY8      PY9
Cereals
Total            5.6      5.7      7.0      9.8       14.5    22.1    25.3    28.1   29.0         29.0
Incremental       -       0.1      1.4     4.2         8.9     16.5    19.7    22.5   23.4        23.4
Sugarcane
Total           40.0    42.0    52.0    69.6          95.9   144.8   164.2   181.8  197.2    200.0
Incremental       -       2.0    12.0    29.6        55.9   104.8   124.2   141.8  157.2    160.0
Root Crops
Total            5.0      5.2      5.7      6.6        8.1      9.8    11.9       13.4  14.5      15.0
Incremental       -       0.2     0.6      1.6         3.1     4.8      6.9       8.4   9.5       10.0
Vegetables
Total             -       4.5    15.9    36.4         75.5   129.4   149.6    166.8 175.0    175.0  
JMiller:sg                                                                                                  O'H
11/25/80



NIGERIA
SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Manpower Demand and Supply
PYl        PY2         PY3       PY4       PY5       PY6
Agricultural Officers          (GL08-15)
Requirement                                    72          74          74        74       74        74
Available                                      35          40          46        53        64       74
International Staff                            20          20          20       20        20        -
Net Surplus (Deficit)                          (17)        (14)        (8)       (1)      10        -
Agricultural Superintendents (GL07-08)
Requirement                                    44          50          50        50        50       50
Available                                      38          41          44        48        55       60
Net Surplus (Deficit)                          (7)         (9)         (6)       (2)        5       10                     U
Agricultural Assistants        (GL06)
Requirement                                   156         167         187      201       222       222
Available                                     173         188         208      238       268       293
Net Surplus (Deficit)                          17          21          21        37       46        71
Field Overseers                (GL04-05)
Requirement                                   405         473         534      588       650       650
Available                                     370         460         510      555       595       635
Net Surplus (Deficit)                         (35)        (13)        (24)      (33)     (55)      (15) X
m M4
Surpluses assumed to cover deficits in other positions or to fill needs outside of project.
Source: Working Paper C6, Tables 2 and 3.
JMiller:sg
01/16/81



- 59   .
ANNEX 1
Table 8
NIGERTA
SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Lending for Agriculture in Nigeria
Loan Number       Year           Project                         Loan Amount US$mn.
764          1971       Western State Cocoa                        7.2
1045         1974       Second Cocoa                              20.0
1091         1975       Livestock                                 21.0
1092         1975       Funtua ADP                                29.0
1099         1975       Gusau ADP                                 19.0
1103         1975       Rice                                      17.5
1164         1975       Gombe ADP                                 21.0
1183         1975.      Mid-West Oil Palm                         29.5
(Bendel State, Nucleus Estate/
Smallholder)
1191         1976       East-Central Oil Palm                     19.0
(Imo State, Smallholder)
1192         1976       Western Oil Palm                          17.0
(Ondo State, Nucleus Estate/
Smallholder)
1454         1977       Lafia ADP                                 27.0
1455         1977       Ayangba ADP                               35.0
1591         1978       Rivers Oil Palm                           30.0
(Nucleus Estate/Smallholders)
1667         1979       Bida ADP                                  23.0
1668         1979       Ilorin ADP                                27.0
1679         1979       Forestry                                  31.0
1719         1979       Agricultural and Rural Management
Institute                               9.0
1838         1980       Oyo North ADP                             28.5
1854         1980       Ekiti-Akoko ADP                           32.5
1981         1981       Bauchi State ADP                         132.0
1982         1981       Kano State ADP                           142,0
2029         1981       Agric. Technical Assistance Proj.         47.0
764,2
Note:  For location of existing and proposed projects,
see Map IBRD 15065.



- 60 -
ANEX 2
         Table 1
NIGERIA
SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(NAIRA '000]
1            2            3            4            5      TOTALS
MANAGEMENT                     4812.40      1072.90      1100.90      1405.10      1128.90      9520.20
STAFF DEVELOPMENT              3432.80      2600.50      1735.70      2027.70      1916.20    11712.90
LAND USE PLANNING               827.00       261.30       291.30       330.30       261.30      1971.20
APPLIED RESEARCH                915.10       364.20       376.20       475.00       341.20      2471.70
SEED MULTIPLICATION             864.80       271.40       306.20       380.50       325.80      2148.70
EVALUATION                     1414.30       644.40       644.40       693.00       644.40      4040.50
EXTENSION                     11173.20      5455.40      4121.40      3835.50      4266.70    28852.20
FADAMA DEVELOPMENT             2126.70      1929.90      1660.10      2334.00      2152.00    10202.70
ENGINEERING                    1528.20      1113.10       748.30       653.90       560.90      4604.40
MECHANICAL WORKSHOPS           3115.30      1185.40      1129.10       870.70       711.70      7012.20
ROAD CONSTRUCTIDN              4438.60      7992.20      4392.60      4574.90      4115.70    25514.00
ROAD MAINTENANCE               2243.30      1893.90      3752.10      2469.40      2837.00    13195.70
WATER SUPPLIES                 2577.30      351 2.60     1862.20      2542.80      1821.40    12316.30
MARKETING & COOPS               713.80      1049.10      1095.10       933.10       741.10      4532.20
SASCO                          4379.00      2189.90      2103.30      2664.50      2122.10    13458.80
FERTILIZER                     4739.60      7618.80      9B36.00    11990.70    15251.10    49436.20
CHEMICALS & IMPLEMENTS          677.40      2110.30      3033.30      4645.30      6585.40    17051.70
SUBTOTAL                      49978.80    41265.30    38188.20    42826.40    45782.90   218041.60
LESS NON-INCRMNTAL COSTS       4755.70      3725.90      3988.70      3898.30      3725.90    20094.50
TOTAL BASE COSTS              45223.10    37539.40    34199.50    38928.10    42057.00   197947.10
FOREIGN                    21930.30    18180.90    15757.80    18954.60    20214.30    95037.90
LOCAL                      23292.80    19358.50    18441.70    19973.50    21842.70   102909.20
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES         2298.41      2374.71      1890.55      2188.61      2278.42    11030.70
PRICE CONTINGENCIES            2728. 42     7240.94    10739.42    17805.20    27196.38    65710.36
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           50249.93    47155.05    46829.47    58921.91    71531.80   274688.16
FOREIGN                    24022.24    21862.37    20169.45    26097.92    29629.17   121781.15
LOCAL                      26227.69    25292.68    26660.01    32824.00    41902.63   152907.01



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
NIGERIA
SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS BY FINANCING CATEGORY
[NAIRA 000)
1            2           3             4           5       TOTALS
BUILDING"                     19816.02      5470.93      2421.23       741.08      1228.09    29677.35
OTHER CI\IIL WORKS              635.81      1110.71       876.13       895.72       902.62      4420.99
VEH.,EOU]P.,SPARES            14428.62      9504.42      6090.35      8524.33      5760.34    44308.06
BOREHOLE DRILLING                66.38      3334.34      1192.57      1858.37      1432.51      7884.16
CHEMICALS & IMPLEMENTS          753.99      2628.72      4113.60      6908.56    10759.34    25164.22
FERTILIZER                     5249.17      9424.43    13334.79    17975.89    25242.35    71226.63
CONSULTANCIES                   416.35       373.01       340.59       311.47       284.05      1725.47
INTERNATIONAL STAFF            2229.53      2581.92      2716.98      2793.31      2617.05    12938.79
LOCAL STAFF                    3645.42      6379.07      8023.49      9293.84    11776.51    39118.33
VEHICLE OPERATION              1666.34      2977.91      3539.12      4245.10      4903.71    17332.18
GENERAL EXPENSES               1342.31      3369.60      4180.62      5374.23      6625.22    20891.98
TOTAL PROJECT COST            50249.93    47155.05    46829.47    58921.91    71531.80   274688.16
FOREIGN                   24022.24    21862.37    20169.45    26097.92    29629.17   121781.15
LOCAL                     26227.69    25292.68    26660.01    32824.00    41902.63   152907.01
FOREIGN PROJECT COSTS BY FINANCING CATEGORY
(NAIRA 0003
1            2            3            4           5       TOTALS
BUILDINGS                      7795.99      2053.63       881.00       256.76       405.08    11392.47
OTHER CIVIL WORKS               277.51       394.25       311.45       310.31       297.73      1591.25
VEH.,EQUIP.,SPARES             9495.28      6575.47      4099.51      5782.99      3488.48    29441.73
BOREHOLE DRILLING                26.06      2182.33       843.82      1317.39       970.73      5340.34
CHEMICALS & IMPLEMENTS          340.76      1396.06      2371.01      4137.72      6320.02    14565.56
FERTrLIZER                     3228.71      5582.70      7712.82    10125.02    13720.11    40369.37
CONSIJLTANCIES                  331.01       291.32       263.25       236.96       212.20      1334.74
INTERNATIONAL STAFF            1910.89      2191 .63     2286.52      2317.77      2395.97    11102.77
VEHICLE OPERATION               311.84       526.75       598.63       678.09       734.27      2849.58
GENEI2AL EXPENSES               304.20       668.24       801.43       934.89      1084.60      3793.35
FOREIGN                    24022.24    21862.37    20169.45    26097.92    29629.17   121781.15



- 62 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
NIGERIA
SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Financing Plan
(N Million)
Bank Loan
Disbursement
PY  1  'PY 2   PY 3   PY 4    PY 5   Total              US$         Schedule
World Bank
Building & Civil Works              10.3    3.3    1.6        .8     1.1    17.1             31.1         28.0
Vehicles Equipment Spares            9.5    6.6    4.1    5.8        3.5    29.5             53.6         48.3
Borehole Drilling                      .1    2.2      .8    1.3      1.0      5.4             9.8          9.0
Chemicals & Implements                 .4    1.4    2.4    4.1       6.3    14.6             26.5         23.9
International Staff & Counsul.       2.6    2.9    2.9    3.0        2.9    14.3             26.0         23.1
-           14.7  Unallocated
Subtotal                         22.9   16.4   11.8   15.0    14.8    80.9              147.0        147.0
FGN
Share of Project Costs              11.1    8.8    7.3    8.5        8.9    44.6
Fertilizer Subsidy
Incremental                       2.4    4.4    6.2    8.3    11.7    33.0
Non-incremental                   2.1    5.1   10.3   14.4    29.3    61.2
Subtotal                         15.6   18.3   23.8   31.2    49.9   138.8
Farmers
Fertilizer
Incremental                        .7    1.2    1.5    1.9        2.4     7.7
Non-incremental                    .6    1.3    2.5    4.1        5.9    14.4
Chemicals
Incremental                        .1      .1      .1     .2       .1       .6
Non-incremental                   -       -        .1     .2       .4       .7
Implements
Incremental l/                     .7    2.3    3.6    6.0        9.5    22.1
Subtotal                          2.1    4.9    7.8   12.4    18.3    45.5
SSG
Incremental Project Costs           12.3   13.9   16.1   18.9    24.2    85.4
Non-incremental Activities           5.5    4.8    5.7    6.3        6.5    28.8
Non-incremental Fertilizer           1.8    4.5    9.4   13.0    28.0    56.7
SASCO Equity                          3.0    -       -      -        -        3.0
Cooperative Share Capital              .1     .1      .1      .1      .1       .5
Subtotal                        22.7   23.3   31.3   38.3    58.8   174.4
Total Program Cost                     63.3   62.9   74.7   96.9   141.8   439.6
Of Which Project Cost                  50.2   47.1   46.6   58.8    71.6   274.3
1/ Less grants for pumps equalling 30% of pump costs grants financed in SSG share of project costs.
6/23/81



- 63 -
ANNEX 2
Table 4
NIGERIA
SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loans
(US$ Million)
FY82
FY83                                           2.5                2.5
10.0              12.5
16.1              38.6
16.0              44.6
FY84                                           7.6               52.2
10.8              63.0
4.6              67.6
4.2               71.8
FY85                                           5.7               77.5
10.0              87.5
3.5               91.0
3.9              94.9
FY86                                           6.7              101.6
14.1             115.7
3.4             119.1
2.9             122.0
FY87                                           5.0              127.0
15.8             142.8
3.4             146.2
0.8             147.0
04/14/82



ANNEX 2
Table 5
NIGERIA
SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TOTAL FERTILIZER REQUIREMENTS AND COSTS
(N '000)
Unit Cost            PYl                 PY2                      PY3                   PY4                     PY5
Per ton    Quantity    Cost   Quantity        Cost    Quantity       Cost    Quantity       Cost    Quantity        Cost               TOTAL
Base C&F Cost
Compound NPK                     178.5      17655    3151.4   20519.5       5447.3      46211.1    8248.7    65625        11714.1      88774.1   15846.2         248784.7  44407.7
SSP                               94.0      14250    1339.5   29650.0       2787.1      50400.0    4737.6    75100         7059.4    X07100.0   10067.4          276500.0  25991.0
CAN                              132.5       1550      205.4    3120.0       413.4       5030.0      666.5     7380         977.8      10552.0    1398.1          27632.0   3661.2
UREA                             174.5         35        6.1      126.2       22.0        421.2       73.5      999.7       174.4       2678.5      467.4          4260.6    743.4
Muriate of Potash                137.5                                                    250         34.4      450          61.9        750        103.1          1450.0    199.4
TOTAL                                 33490    4702.4   63415.7       8669.8    102312.3   13760.7   149554.7    19987.6    209854.6   27882.2             558627.3  75002.7
Base Costs to Sokoto
Port Charges                      35.0                1172.2                2219.5                  3580.9                  699.6                  7344.9                   15017.1
Transport                         70.0                2344.3                4439.1                  7161.9                10468.8                 14689.8                   39103.9
SUBTOTAL                                           3516.5                 6658.6                10742.8                 11168.4                 22034.7                  54121.0
Base Costs at Sokote                                    8218.9               15328.4                24503.5                 31156.0                 49915.9                  129123.7/
Foreign                                               5405.7               10001.5                 15909.3                23128.1                 32289.1                   86734.7
Local                                                 2813.2                5326.9                 8594.2                  8027.9                 17626.8                   42389.0
Base Cpsts within State
Handling                           3.0                 100.5                 190.2                   306.9                  448.7                   629.6                    1675.9
Transport                         14.0                 468.9                 887.8                  1432.4                 2093.8                  2938.0                    7820.9
SUBTOTAL                                             569.4                1078.0                 1739.3                  2542.5                  3567.6                    9496.8
Total Base Cost                                         8788.3               16406.4                 26242.8                33698.5                 53483.5                  138619.5
Foreign                                               5546.4               10267.8                 16339.0                23756.2                 33170.5                   89079.9
Local                                                 3241.9                6138.6                  9903.8                 9942.3                 20313.0                   49539.6
Financing
Total Cost1/                                          9730.2               20280.3                35546.1                 49520.6                 88440.6                  203517.8
FGN-                                               4546.3                 9444.8                16522.4                 22688.0                 40926.7                  .70140.7
Farmer3/                                           1346.9                 2527.1                 4052.9                  5909.2                  8265.0                  22101.1
SSG                                                3837.0                 8308.4                14970.8                 20925.4                 39248.9                  87288.5
1/  Includes physical and price contingencies
2/  50%-<of cost delivered to Sokoto
3/ Ni44/ton for NPK; N 36/ton for others.



NIGERIA
SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Economic Analysis
Total                     Variable 1/   Variable 2/         Total         Net
Upland Crop   Fadama Crop    Incremental    Project        Upland          Fadama          Incremental  Incremental
Periods      Benefits      Benefits         Benefits      Services    Costs           Costs             Costs          Benefits
1         7,129.9         265.9           7,395.8       3,450.0   13,125.3           430.3          48,056.6    - 40,660.9
2        26,526.0       1,402.2          27,928.1      21,925.2   34,220.9         1,958.4          58,104.5    - 30,176.4
3        55,020.6       3,869.3          58,889.9      17,451.9   17,451.8        61,220.4           3,874.9    - 23,657.1
4        92,302.5       8,292.3         100,594.8      17,685.9   96,832.2         7,253.7         121,771.8    - 21,177.0
5       138,544.5      15,397.1         153,941.6      16,342.3  138,021.6         9,468.3         163,832.3    -  9,890.6
6       163,733.1      21,463.3         185,196.4      10,734.8  136,280.2         7,295.0         154,310.1        30,886.3
7       163,733.1      24,739.6         188,472.7       8,752.5  136,143.1         7,595.2         152,490.7       35,98119
8       163,733.1      27,081.2         190,814.3       6,770.2  136,050.4         7,764.7         150,585.2       40,229.1
9       165,451.7      28,088.5         193,540.2       5,580.8  137,378.1         7,913.1         150,872.0        42,668.2
10      167,170.2      28,242.8         195,413.0       5,485.9  137,378.1         7,913.1         150,777.1        44,635.9
11      167,170.2      28,242.8         195,413.0       5,391.0  137,378.1         7,913.1         150,682.2       44,730.8      f
12      167,170.2      28,242.8         195,413.0       5,296.1  137,378.1         7,913.1         150,587.3        44,825.7      '
13-25   167,170.2      28,242.8         195,413.0       5,239.2  137,378.1         7,913.1         150,530.4        44,882.6
1/  Cost of incremental fertilizer, chemicals, equipment and labor need-d to achieve incremental upland benefits.
2/ Cost of incremental fertilizer, chemicals, pumps and labor needed to achieve incremental fadama benefits.
Note: See Working Paper C8 for further details.
01/23/81
I D 



- 66-                                ANNEX 3
Table 2
NIGERIA
SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Net Present Value (NPV) at 11%:                        N99.1 million
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)                           20%
Switching Values 1/                                    % Change
Total Benefits                                       -8.7%
Total Costs                                          +9.5
Upland Crop Benefits                                 -10.0
Fadama Crop Benefits                                 -67.7
Grain prices (or production)                         -18.5
Variable Upland Costs                                +11.3
Variable Fadama Costs                                +190.3
Project Services                                     +87.4
Fertilizer Costs                                     +30.7
Farm Labor Costs                                     +16.6
Changes in Adoption Rate                                ERR
Upland: Down  10%                                    18.7%
Down  20%                                    17.9%
Down  50%                                    15.2%
Fadama: Down  10%                                    18.7%
Down  20%                                    18.0%
Down  50%                                    15.8%
l/   Percentage change in variable which would reduce the NPV to zero
(reduce ERR to 11%).
01/23/81



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
NIGERIA
SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents available in Project File
A.        Preparation Reports
A.1    Sokoto State Rural Development Programme.
Preparation Report. July 1980.
A.2    Gusau Zone Rural Development Programme.
Preparation Report. July 1979.
B.        Other Documents
B.1    Sokoto State.  Recurrent and Capital Estimates 1979-80.
B.2    Sokoto State, Ministry of Information.
Introducing Sokoto State. June 1979.
B.3    Sokoto State, Ministry of Economic Development.
Quarterly Report on the Prices of Selected Commodities in
Some Towns in Sokoto State, July - December 1979, nd.
B.4    Sokoto State, Ministry of Information.
Focus on Ministry of Agriculture. nd.
B.5    Sokoto College of Technology.  Draft Syllabi in Agricultural
Mechanization and Irrigation Engineering, nd.
C.        Working Papers
Cl     Socioeconomic Features of the Project area
C2     Agricultural Background and Potential
C3     Engineering
C4     Cooperative Development, Marketing, Farm Credit, and Fadama
Grant
C5     Input Supply
C6     Staff Development and Training
C7     Monitoring and Evaluation
C8     Economic Analysis
C9     Project Cost Tables.



I



NIGERIA
ORGANIZATION OF SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
POLICY                                                                      Govemor's Council for
Agricultural and Rural
Development
EXECUTIVE                                                              Sokoto Agricultural Development
Project Excutive Committee
(Chairman Commissioner MRDC)
PROGRrNM IMPLI-MENtATION                                                     Prga  Maaemn
urga   Mnaema a
(Program Managerl
Adinnstration          FinanceIanDeosrtn
I~~~~~
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pann i8 IIE auaon II1
Semn cv                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Services
A'pp iad                       SSdSeirStfpPpelie                                                               Meynca                                a
h                Mana9emnte   Mu |viplito on|                                  Training       T  raining            rrnmn            PY||Tann 
g   ~~~~~~. .. h M
Eastern                           Northern                               Ci 7              entrl                 e         se1
Zone                              Zone                                                Zone                               Zone
ZONAL IMPLEMENTATION
Zonal MatagementIUnit
(Project Manager)
Training         n            Sngineering                 Agriculs            r           Evaluation                Developm
Services                      SOrs                       LNo
Extension                     Civil Works                  Extension                       aline Survey                 Land Planning
Farmers                      Mechanimi Workshop             Farm Management              Agronomic Survey                Land Development Grant
*Commercial                     Feeder Roads                *Applied Research               Price Data                     Demonstrations
Evaluation                     atar SutIly                                               Adhoc Surveys
World Benk - 22267






I B R I0 150 65 RI
is  5.0,00 ~~~~~~~~---E  K    ''    NI  4,     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  R                                                                         t- ~~~NIGER A
I  tvtLt   te~,          IBRD  Assisted  Agricultural Projects
~~r-----* N                                                                G~~~~~~~~~t  c/tao ~~~~~Completed  and  Apprased
SCROTS  Kareita  "'~~~~~~~~~~~~~N.   .   ~~~~~o~~-  Sgt.        ~          ~         ~         ~         ~        ~                            Ag,icoliurol Deveopment Pro!ects.
I , ,      J        N  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                     LI~~~~~~~~~ ~COMPLETED.
y                                                                                                                                                              Poarvo (Loan 1OP2-UN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..uL 19 -)I
0  il~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dtJ8 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXIST NO
S  I  )  >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-   I                                  ~~~~~~~~~Lafia (Loan1454 -UNJI)
U 0K         OTO6                                               KiAND            N)/                  /CA-ogbo (Loan455-UNII
S                                                                                                                                                      . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UIBido (Loon 1667  L Ull1
\y                                                                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ioti 7.oar 1668 -UN1
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TT                                                                                                                        /                           REin Aoko ko-1854-L,NI(
Ranh, Store
/                         ~~~~~~~Kern State
APPRAISED:
SIENtK                                                                                 D         N A4                                                                                                                                              K-da-  State
K                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Me-bille
conregare  .-, /  1                                                                                                                          S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NDER PREPARATION.
Ionb Staret
N  G  E                                                                                                   4r                                    15.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~edel North
\ftlAD                  Rome~B.    State
MINNA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t-                                                                                                                    Riner State
Lag-e S,tar
P   L  A  I   E   A  ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     ~                                     NTrainig Projeots
T                   Agiaarled Rura
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ma..agee-t T- -tg letitate
A/olv W ~      ~        S',                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tree Crap Projects
ES STING  (.     6    N -
Cocoa DI (Loan 1045 -UNI(
1endel 0, Pee~ (oon 1183- UN 
r  N  D_ 0                                                                                                                                                                   I..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a Oil P.. (Loan1191-UNI(
ABFOKIJ                                                                                                                                                                              R,,.,, St.t. 0   P. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (L..n 1525 - LJetNItrn   Pm(oaISS-NI
C   '          I                            W:uWs    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fntettrv (Loan 167 -UN 
2'                                    ~~~~~~~~~APPRA SED
eaaegri                                    ENXCo                            , <I              .                 . .                                       tao a ioo.vo.-a.nr no ta.iio              Crate R net Stare Estote Oil PaIeC(, R-  St., E,tt. OdP.I~
-uo                                    J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aaaacO  .0        o,at n'cifn  rn oot
ITY                          Q ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7~ncit7Zn~o                                                                                          rrgotion Project,
N  vi'ccra  L cnv  1mXS err           ~Ric (Loan Il103-UN 1)
eon  n7  ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~\'~~~I                        ,   ~~~~~~  . -S4   ._ .  _                         I                                iLivestock Developmnent Project-
U.  )     -        ,               ~~~~~~~~~~AFreNa 4MOL                                     7Loan 1091 -UN I)
~ ~~~~~~~'1    ~ ~ ~ ~   /   I        tItSBc                              .e$rnvvn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'n/   ~ ~ ~ ; evAro          EXISTING
itI  I LnP(  ji~~&o.        5*       Nnrth-Eaatern Co Ran-hee
0  RE   of    tones             a~    A    to   in  to                  .io,n   ~   A-~. ofinttta  ZAIPT              [117]    GtainaEeeeraar-PaA-n.Gr-apl-an-h-
-a,  a'  a.                                                                                                                                Noon      U~  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ , -gR e -, -FI -  G   pR






_IBRB  15424
9-    B rn Koll :agrt --; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ ~N I G E P I A 
A. '- i <) GW/ADABAWA             ~                      -   _  _SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL
orD            // N O R T H E R N1  X   jOBO St,    S8ar                                                  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
N             E   R   N/,05/
|S I  I A M EG// //wc os <.\
N                                                                          )       .S>1G                                       P. PRSOPO'ED
_ Cdo,M o? TA _____eLnePoe
I                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zo..IH-0ds,-,,
0  N ;> & _ >                      -- \                A  1-- C.-,
\8~~      ~~ + ^      ,4~ '                                                                                       02t / A       
:                                                                                <z~~~~~~~SK
_  / _   N  I  G  E R     /=r4vilq@;l/S  <   N   I  G   E  R   ST  A   T   E      KADU A   STATE   j         I,, 
-A~~~~~~~~A 
Z    10  N   E ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~oe  
O ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TA _, SA T9 A)                                                                                  R  I-f   <A !S
A~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
|~~~~~                                                                   M A F AR IA     ,  <.=,@ <           RAv  t Y  D-W L' v-d            
- ~~~~~~~~~>                                       **.Jf ...                                    RON _l~r. 0DL l9et -~SA,vRuDflS)  000 I
o r                                                                    -        -         z ti                                           ;                  4gN: amp ~ iS _ M '! b' : t <. ..U  . I..L.. =  -
~7-J                                                                              ROOS APA 5~X0 P- Z 



