Document of                 .,   'F-K
The World Bank            t'  
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3336-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN
SOKOTO STATE
May 28, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Naira (N)
US$1            =   NO.55
Ni              =   US$1.82
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric (m) ton        =   0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)          =   2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)        =   0.62 mile
ABBREVIATIONS
ADPs      -    Agricultural Development Projects
ASP       -    Advanced Service Package
BSP       -    Basic Service Package
FPP       -    Food Production Plan
LGC       -    Local Government Council
SADPEC    -    Sokoto Agricultural Development Project
Executive Committee
SAPMU     -    Sokoto Agricultural Program Management
Unit
SARDPC    -    Sokoto Agricultural and Rural Development
Policy Council
SASCO     -    Sokoto Agricultural Service Company
SCF       -    Sokoto Cooperative Federation
SSG       -    Sokoto State Government
ZADAC     -    Zonal Agricultural Development Advisory
Committee
FISCAL YEAR
January 1     -    December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA - SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Federal Republic of Nigeria
Beneficiary:   Sokoto State of Nigeria
Amount:         US$147 million
Terms:          Payable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at an
interest rate of 11.6 percent per annum.
Relending       The Federal Government would onlend the full amount of
Terms:          the loan to the Sokoto State Government on the same
terms as the Bank loan. The State Government would
carry the foreign exchange risk.
Project         The project would assist in increasing food crop production
Description:   and improving rural incomes on a statewide basis. It would
consist of a package of farm support services and physical
infrastructure designed to benefit about 690,000 smallholder
farm families in Sokoto State, of whom about 70 percent are
expected to adopt improved farm practices. Support services
would include improved farm and water management practices,
extension advice, crop protection measures, weed control,
improved seeds, fertilizer, and the provision of small-scale
pump irrigation on fadama lands. Physical infrastructure
would include constructing about 1,700 km of feeder roads
and additional cooperative storage facilities, drilling
about 1,200 boreholes, improving 32 rural markets, and estab-
lishing project headquarters and farm service centers. Con-
sultant services would be engaged to assist in recruiting a
project management team and to carry out studies of rural water
supply, land use, training and staff development, the project's
socio-economic impact, and post-project development. Since the
basic agricultural package is simple and well tested, the
project does not involve unusual risks. Nevertheless, the
adequate and timely financing of the project, its proper
staffing, and an efficient input supply system will be of great
importance for the success of the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                Local      Foreign      Total
-------(US$ Million)
Farm and Crop Development
Extension                                 38.9         13.6       52.5
Fadama Development                        11.3          7.2       18.5
Seed Multiplication and Applied
Research                               5.2          2.8        8.0
Incremental Farm Inputs                   45.9         75.0      120.9
Subtotal                           101.3        98.6       199.9
Civil Works
Road Construction and Maintenance         40.9         29.5       70.4
Rural Water Supply                         8.8         13.6       22.4
Engineering Services and Workshop         12.6          8.5       21.1
Subtotal                           62.3         51.6       113.9
Support Services
Management                                10.0          7.3       17.3
Staff Development                         14.2          7.1       21.3
Evaluation and Land Use Planning           7.5          3.4       10.9
Farm Service Company                      18.5          6.0       24.5
Marketing and Cooperative Development    5.8            2.2        8.0
Subtotal                            56.0        26.0        82.0
Less Non-Incremental Expenditure              (32.7)        (3.8)      (36.5)
Total Base Costs                         186.9         172.4     359.3
Physical Contingencies                         10.0          10.0       20.0
Price Contingencies                            80.9          38.5      119.4
Total Project Costs (including taxes and
duties of US$28.0 million)                    277.8         220.9      498.7
Local.    Foreign      Total
Financing Plan:                               -------(US$ Million) ------
IBRD                                                      147.0       147.0
Federal Government                            103.0        38.1       141.1
Sokoto State Government                       119.5        35.8       155.3
Farmers                                        55.3         -          55.3
277.8      220.9       498.7



- iii-
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year                1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
---US$ Millions------------
Annual                          44.6    27.2    23.1    27.1    25.0
Cumulative                      44.6    71.8    94.9   122.0   147.0
Rate of Return:                  20 percent (excluding rural water supply
component)
Staff Appraisal Report:          3304-UNI, dated May 24, 1982






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO NIGERIA
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN SOKOTO STATE
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$147 million
to help finance a project for agricultural development in Sokoto State of
Nigeria. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
with interest at 11.6 percent per annum. The Federal Government would relend
the total amount of the loan to the Sokoto State Government on the same terms
as the Bank loan. The State Government would carry the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        The last Country Economic Memorandum reviewing short-term develop-
ments in Nigeria (Report 3232-UNI) is dated April 7, 1981. A Basic Economic
Report examining the long-term economic prospects and policy options facing
Nigeria (Report 3341-UNI), dated August 17, 1981, has also been distributed
to the Executive Directors. Country data are attached as Annex I.
Political Background
3.        The present civilian Government, headed by President Alhaji Shehu
Shagari, assumed office on October 1, 1979, following 13 years of military
rule. The Government's priorities and policies are set out in the recently
issued Outline of the Fourth National Development Plan (1981-85). Rural
development, increased food production, education, and low-cost housing are
focal points of the new administration's program.  The desire for decent-
ralization, and the fact that opposition parties hold office in many states,
constitute a formidable challenge for the Nigerian leadership in successfully
implementing a national development strategy.
Recent Economic Developments
4.        Although oil output rose rapidly in the early 1970s, reaching a peak
of 2.3 million barrels a day (mbd) in 1974, it was only with the quadrupling
of the oil price in 1973-74 that Nigeria's financial situation changed funda-
mentally.  The dramatic rise in oil income occurred at a time when Nigeria
ranked among the world's poorest countries and had a predominantly agricultural
economy, with manufacturing accounting for less than 10 percent of GDP.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report
for the Sixth Power Project approved by the Board on January 12, 1982.



- 2 -
5.        The Government's first concern, as reflected in the Third National
Development Plan (1975-80), was to use the new wealth to modernize the country.
The four-fold increase in public revenue allowed initiation of a vast investment
program, and generated a growth rate of 7 percent a year. Public investment
was concentrated on developing transport and communication networks, expanding
education, and setting up heavy industry. But the large public expenditures
also caused high rates of inflation in the early years and wastage of resources.
In fact, expenditures rose much faster than income, and within two years
deficits reappeared on both the budget and the balance of payments. These
developments brought the country to the brink of a financial crisis in 1978.
6.        With the price increases in 1977 and 1980--from US$15 to US$33 per
barrel--Nigeria's financial position was greatly strengthened. In 1980,
export earnings and government revenue from petroleum were estimated at about
$25 billion or 2 1/2 times their 1978 level. Federal Government expenditures
budgeted and implemented in 1980 and programmed for 1981 were roughly in line
with the increase in revenue. The composition of capital expenditures pro-
posed for 1981 (the first year of the Fourth Five Year Development Plan)
reflected the new Government's increasing emphasis on agriculture, housing,
water supply, and road maintenance. In mid-1981, however, Nigeria's oil
exports fell dramatically as the result of a glut in the world oil market,
and the Government was obliged to take corrective price action in an effort to
recuperate previous export volumes. Oil production levels have, however,
remained low through the first quarter of 1982. The drop in oil production by
almost one-third in 1981 and the first quarter of 1982 has had substantial
adverse effects on the Nigerian financial situation. In 1981, oil revenues
declined by about $8 billion to an estimated level of $15 billion, and Nigeria
managed to finance its normal level of imports by running down its reserves by
about $6 billion. This situation is still continuing, and foreign exchange
reserves have declined further (being estimated at less than $3 billion at
end-February 1982). As a result, Nigeria has recently imposed strict import
controls, and is planning to cut back on its financial expenditures.
7.        Nigeria's pattern of economic growth over the past few years has
displayed many of the characteristics associated with the development of other
oil exporting countries. High rates of domestic inflation, combined with an
appreciating value of the naira, meant that domestic costs of production rose
relatively to foreign costs. At the same time, output prices in such purely
domestic sectors as construction and services (where supplies could not be
augmented through imports) rose at a more rapid pace than costs in the trade-
able sectors. Consequently, agriculture and manufacturing were placed at a
disadvantage vis-a-vis both foreign-produced goods (which became relatively
cheaper) and purely domestic sectors (which became more profitable). In the
agricultural sector, the output of subsistence crops as well as traditional
export crops stagnated. The manufacturing sector too found it difficult to
compete with imports, despite extensive government incentives, and suffered
from rising costs and infrastructure bottlenecks.



-3-
Poverty and Basic Needs
8.        Nigeria has an estimated population of 85 million (1980) and a per
capita income of about US$1,000 (1980). Although Nigeria is placed among the
middle-income countries, acute poverty is still widespread. In 1978, an
estimated 35 percent of the households in the urban areas and 55 percent in
the rural areas were unable to meet the minimum expenditure required for food
and other necessities of life. A substantial portion--20 percent of all
households in urban areas and 40 percent in rural areas--did not have incomes
adequate to meet even basic food requirements.
9.        In terms of such health indicators as infant mortality, life expec-
tancy, and incidence of disease, Nigeria is not much better than the poorest
countries in Africa. Infant mortality is believed to be well over 100 per
thousand, and life expectancy still under 50 years. This is in spite of a
substantial rise in the number of doctors, nurses, and hospitals in relation
to Nigeria's population. Reduction of mortality in Nigeria, as in other coun-
tries experiencing rapid rises in income, will be a slow process, requiring
the spread of an effective primary health care system and progress on a range
of related socio-economic factors, particularly nutrition, primary education,
and water supply.
10.       Nigeria has, however, taken big strides in human resource develop-
ment through the Government's firm commitment to universal primary education
(UPE). As a result, some 60 percent of all school age children are now
enrolled, and in several parts of the south, UPE is already a reality. The
pace at which the program was pursued inevitably created problems, e.g. lack
of trained teachers, deterioration in the quality of education, diversion of
labor from agriculture, and a rising demand for secondary education. But
these initial troubles are likely to ease when the rate of expansion stabi-
lizes. Within the next two decades Nigeria should be transformed from a
country with very high rates of illiteracy to one where most of the population
has been to school.
11.       Although there was little increase in agricultural output during
most of the 1970s, off-farm rural activity expanded considerably, mostly from
public expenditures on construction following the oil boom. Rural incomes
were also augmented by the rapid growth in the service sectors and a probable
increase in remittances from urban areas. The growth in incomes appears to
have been spread widely and to have relieved the rural poverty somewhat.
12.       In urban areas, formal sector employment rose rapidly, perhaps
around 8 percent a year in the 1970s. But real wages appear not to have
risen over the last 15 years. In 1975, there was a substantial increase in
public sector wages, promptly followed by an increase in the private sector.
But this gain was quickly eroded by the ensuing high inflation and the
Government's restraint on further wage increases as part of its policy to
control inflation. However, recently the Government, under union labor
pressure, raised the minimum wage from N100 to N125 per month, bringing it
in real terms to the level of 1970. Average real wage earnings appear to have
risen as a result of the distribution of employment moving towards the higher



-4-
paying sectors. Furthermore, since formal sector employment rose in relative
terms, an increasing proportion of the labor force came to enjoy a higher
standard of living. Although the relative size of the informal sector appears
to have declined slightly over the past decade, it still is the dominant mode
of employment in urban areas. Because of the rapid expansion in construction,
trade, and commerce, the income earning possibilities in this sector remained
generally good, and average real incomes at the lower end of the scale pro-
bably remained stable, or even improved slightly.
Economic Prospects
13.       As the major source of public revenue and foreign exchange earnings,
oil is basic to an assessment of Nigeria's long-term economic prospects. On
present knowledge, Nigeria's oil output over the next decade is not expected
to be sustained, after recovery in the international oil market, above on
average 2.15 mbd; by 1990, it may even begin to decline. With domestic con-
sumption of oil products rising rapidly (over 15 percent a year), the export-
able surplus is expected to decline from the current rate of over 90 percent
of output to about 70 percent by 1990. Thus, if past trends persist, and no
new sources of export earnings and public revenue are developed to make up for
the relative decline of the oil sector, Nigeria's balance of payments and
fiscal situation can be expected to tighten over time. Even with a relatively
moderate rise in imports, large current account deficits are expected to
reappear, leading to a deterioration in the balance of payments in the 1990s,
when maintenance of steady economic growth will become increasingly difficult.
Considerable budgetary deficits could appear even sooner, threatening domestic
economic stability. A strong recovery in the international oil market and
substantial increases in oil prices may postpone the financial difficulties,
but this is a risky basis for formulating a long-term growth strategy.
14.       In order that dependence on imports may decline and non-oil exports
may gradually begin to replace oil exports, projections suggest that Nigeria
has roughly ten years to make the necessary structural adjustments. Accelera-
ting growth in agriculture and industry will be the most difficult task. The
growth of the other sectors of the economy, such as power, transport, and
construction, should receive its impulse primarily from commodity production.
The expected rapid increase in population and labor force (estimated at over
3 percent a year) necessitates maintaining a fairly high rate of economic
growth over the next two decades.
15.       The Government is committed to achieving a balanced and sustainable
economic growth path. The Outline of the Fourth National Development Plan
indicates that, while the unfinished projects from the Third Plan period would
be speedily completed, greater emphasis will be placed on stimulating agricul-
tural production. A target of food self-sufficiency by 1985 has been set.
While the target is ambitious, and may not be achieved within the plan period,
it is indicative of the priority that is being attached to this sector. -
There is likely to be strong emphasis again on education, as in the past, but
the expected inclusion of a large low-cost housing program would be a new
departure. Assuming a considerable improvement in Nigeria's current revenue
situation and an active private sector, domestic investment is expected to be



- 5 -
maintained at a high level. This should permit the economy to grow at around
5 percent a year--more than 6 percent for non-oil GDP--with fair potential for
employment generation.
16.       The availability of skilled manpower will remain a major constraint
on economic development over the coming years. Although the Government has
given priority to manpower development, there are still severe shortages
in several lines of activity. The dependence on expatriates is particularly
high in scientific and technical occupations. The demand for middle-level
skills is expected to rise rapidly with an increasing emphasis in government
programs on poverty alleviation, education, and preventive health. In the
short-term, expatriates may alleviate some of these shortages, but ultimately
the solution lies in improving the quality and coverage of education and
expansion of pre-service and in-service training programs.
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
17.       Nigeria has, so far, borrowed relatively little externally from
official and private sources of finance. The small volume of external borrow-
ing - about $4.6 billion outstanding and disbursed at end 1981 - is due
largely to the country's previously favorable balance of payments position.
Other than project financing, Nigeria has been to international capital
markets for balance of payment support only in 1977 and 1978 for Euro-dollar
borrowings of $1 billion and $0.75 billion, respectively. Difficulties were
experienced with the 1978 borrowing largely due to Nigeria's lack of experi-
ence with private external borrowing of this magnitude. No subsequent "general"
loans have been sought in international capital markets.
18.       The external financing picture is, however, likely to change fairly
rapidly in response to three important factors. First, Nigeria's balance of
payments position will tighten substantially over time both as a result of
possible fundamental changes in the structure of the international oil market
as well as Nigeria's own declining oil reserves with, consequently, reduced
surpluses available for export. Second, Nigeria is likely to experience
continued fluctuations in its oil export levels with significant effects on
its foreign exchange earnings and level of foreign exchange reserves. Third,
the states of the Nigerian Federation are expected to continue to borrow
substantial amounts externally over the medium term.
19.       Balance of payments projections, based on current Bank projections
of international oil prices, indicate that Nigeria will require substantial
external financing throughout the 80s. Debt service ratios, although substan-
tially up from 7 percent at present, are not expected to exceed 19 percent.
The Bank's share in total debt is expected to be about 14 percent in 1985 and
16 percent in 1990. All in all, Nigeria will remain creditworthy for Bank and
other borrowing on a substantial scale for the foreseeable future.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA 1/
20.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of March 31, 1982 amounted
to US$1,890.9 million (net of cancellations). The amount of these loans and
credits disbursed as of March 31, 1982 was US$821.1 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$1,069.8 million. Transport, power, and water supply
together account for about 46 percent of total commitments; agriculture for
another 40 percent (most of which was committed in the last seven fiscal
years); and education, industry, urban and the post-war rehabilitation loan
for the remaining 14 percent of total commitments. There have been only two
IDA credits to Nigeria, for US$35.3 million; both are fully disbursed. IFC
has made five loans to borrowers totalling US$17.3 million, and six equity
investments totalling US$5.1 million. Of these amounts, US$5.4 million have
been repaid, cancelled, or sold. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments, as well as notes on the execu-
tion of ongoing projects.
21.       Although annual disbursements have increased from US$52 million
in FY1978 to nearly US$73 million in FY1981, Nigeria's disbursement perfor-
mance has lagged behind that of other countries in the Region. In fact, in
the last three years, undisbursed balances have progressively increased and
now stand at 56 percent of the US$1.9 billion in loans approved. One of
the reasons for this development is the rapid expansion of the Bank's loan
portfolio since 1979 as well as the fact that a number of large loans were
extended during this period, mainly for agricultural projects. In many cases,
however, long delays in loan effectiveness, administrative constraints and
bottlenecks, management problems, as well as a general and more recent phe-
nomenon, namely inadequate counterpart funding of projects by Federal and
State Governments resulting from lower oil revenues, have been the prime cause
for slow disbursements. The disbursement record in agriculture has been
mixed. Disbursements have been generally faster in the case of integrated
agricultural development projects, but substantial shortfalls as compared to
appraisal projections have been registered in the tree crop, forestry, and
livestock sub-sectors. Similarly, education, DFC, and power projects have
been particularly slow in disbursing. The Federal Government, with the
assistance of the Bank's Resident Mission, is now carefully monitoring loan
disbursements with a view to early identification of problems and the taking
of corrective action. Provided this efforl. is sustained, there should be a
gradual improvement in disbursements.
22.       The main thrust of the Bank's activities in Nigeria in recent years
has been to support agriculture and rural development, with particular em-
phasis on institution-building and transfer of technology. These objectives
are in consonance with the Federal Government's priorities under the Third
Plan, which places considerable emphasis on agriculture, and its policy to use
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report
for the Sixth Power Project approved by the Board on January 12, 1982.



-7-
the proceeds of Nigeria's oil revenues to increase the productive capacity of
the economy, and thereby raise the standard of living of its population,
particularly the rural poor.
23.       In view of the interest which Nigeria has expressed in greater
Bank involvement, an expanded Bank lending program has been initiated.
In developing a broader approach to lending in Nigeria, a central objective
is to encourage the shift (already discernible in the Federal Government's
investment programming) away from the massive and diffused infrastructure
investment, which characterized the two or three years following the oil
boom of 1973/74, towards a more discriminating support for growth in the
commodity producing sectors. A second objective of Bank lending is to raise
the productivity of the lowest income groups and thereby diminish the inci-
dence of absolute poverty in Nigeria. This objective has been actively
pursued in recent agricultural projects, including the Bauchi State and Kano
Agricultural Development Projects approved last year, which benefit some of
the very lowest income groups. Agricultural lending of this kind would
continue to figure prominently in the future lending program. A third
objective of Bank lending is to support the Federal Government's efforts to
diversify the economy, and reduce the excessive dependence upon petroleum as
a source of foreign exchange and fiscal revenue. Agricultural lending, in
particular, would include strengthening the potential for export crops.
24.       In accordance with these objectives, projects in agriculture and
industry together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the
coming two or three years. Effective support for the commodity producing
sectors will also require strategic investment in production-related infra-
structure, however. There would appear to be good opportunities for the
Bank to make a significant contribution in power, water supply, and highway
maintenance. Recently, the Bank approved loans for a Sixth Power project and
a Water Supply and Sanitation project in Anambra State, and further project
identification work is under way in these three sectors. Similarly, there is
a strong case for continued lending for education. In this context, it is
proposed that vocational, technical, and teacher training be given special
emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support the Federal and state governments'
efforts to spread the benefits of growth to the social sectors. It is envi-
saged that some of the pressing problems of rapid urbanization will continue
to be addressed through a number of urban development projects, along the
lines of the ongoing project in Bauchi State, focussed on the needs of the
urban poor. The Bank is also considering a request from the Federal Govern-
ment to assist in overcoming the country's health problems.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
25.       Agriculture continues to play an important role in the Nigerian
economy despite the prominence of the petroleum sector. Approximately 60
percent of Nigeria's population is dependent upon agriculture for its
principal source of employment and income. Value added by agriculture
accounts for almost one-quarter of GDP, and almost 40 percent if petroleum



- 8 -
production is excluded. However, production has fluctuated significantly
from year to year, and there was less than 2 percent growth of value added in
real terms during the period 1970-82. As a result, food prices rose precipi-
tously as demand outstripped supply. In addition, rapid development in the
non-agricultural sectors and rising standards of education, both of which
contrast sharply with the poor returns to labor and drudgery of traditional
agriculture, have encouraged the drift of young people away from rural areas.
Yet, the agricultural sector must continue to play a key role in the economy
both as an employer and as the source of food for the rapidly growing urban
population.
26.       Agricultural production is almost entirely in the hands of small-
holders, with the typical unit being a family farm of 2-4 hectares. Little
use is made of modern inputs, such as fertilizer and improved seeds, or of
mechanized techniques. As a result, yields are very low, and in some cases
have even declined because of deteriorating soil fertility. Although there is
some cultivation of cash crops--oil palm, cocoa, and other trees in the south
and groundnuts and cotton in the north--almost every farm family grows some of
its food requirements. A growing proportion of these food crops is entering
commercial trade for shipment to other areas as food demand rises in the urban
areas.
Country Policies and Performance
27.       Successive governments have emphasized the need to improve per-
formance in the agricultural sector. In the Third Five-Year Development
Plan (1975-80), US$4.8 billion was earmarked for agriculture. Although the
Plan's target growth rate for agriculture was set at 5 percent per annum,
the estimated actual rate did not exceed 1 percent. Annual imports of food
rose from about US$300 million in 1974 to about US$2,400 million in 1980,
and agricultural exports have declined steadily. If this trend were to
continue, it could result in a food deficit in 1990 of 11 million tons (cereal
equivalent), or about 40 percent of demand.
28.       The disappointing performance of the agricultural sector can be
attributed in large part to previous policies which placed strong emphasis
on isolated, large-scale irrigation and government-run, intensively mechanized
production schemes with generally very disappointing production results. At
the same time, little was done to develop essential support services aimed
at the farming community as a whole. Despite the declared intentions in the
Plan, smallholders, who produce 90 percent of total agricultural output, were
not the principal focus of the agricultural strategy. The few government-
sponsored programs for the development of smallholder agriculture have suffered
from poor management, a shortage of funds, or from being stretched too thinly
in order to cover all states. Against this background, Bank-supported agri-
cultural development projects (ADPs) have succeeded in achieving significant
advances in smallholder agriculture. Based on the successes of the ADPs and
on recognition that past policies to promote increased agricultural produc-
tion had failed, the Federal Government in 1980 changed its policy and plan
of action. An essential part of the Government's objective is to decrease
Nigeria's dependence on food imports, and the strategy favors support for
smallholder production.



- 9 -
29.       The Bank will continue to support ADPs in special geographic areas
and state-wide ADPs such as the currently proposed project. However, the
limitations on the Bank's ability to support ADPs in all states of the Federa-
tion led the Government to decide to implement a concurrent smallholder pro-
gram for the residual areas not yet covered by ADPs. The nation-wide program
would contain most key elements of the ADP concept, but in a less intensive
package and with lower managerial demands. This program is being assisted by
the Bank under the Agricultural Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2029-UNI),
which was approved by the Executive Directors on June 30, 1981.
Development Constraints
30.       As mentioned before, one of the principal constraints to the devel-
opment of the sector is the lack of effective agricultural support services.
The transport of produce and inputs is hampered by a lack of feeder roads. In
addition, fertilizers and other basic farm inputs are, in many cases, supplied
only irregularly. Consequently, even with the prevailing high levels of sub-
sidies on farm inputs, farm production has not increased significantly, and
has actually declined in some areas. Extension services are generally defi-
cient, and the new technologies that are available are not reaching farmers in
remote rural areas. .A greater effort is also required, particularly by the
agricultural research institutions, to generate simple technologies and
innovations, and adapt them to the diverse socio-ecological conditions of
Nigeria.
31.        Shortcomings in the efficiency of commercial support services to
agriculture have also constrained growth. Agricultural supply services
remain almost entirely in the hands of the public sector, which neither has
the experience nor the administrative capability to provide those services.
Given the size of Nigeria's massive development program, the Government should
divest itself progressively of responsibilities for marketing farm inputs
because this function can be handled more efficiently by private enterprise.
This cannot be brought about without a simultaneous change in Government poli-
cies for the subsidization of farm inputs, however. Current policies for the
subsidization of farm inputs have not always worked to the advantage of the
farmers and, in the case of fertilizers, have served to remove the incentive
for private sector participation in the distribution system, thereby creating
problems of availability. The Bank has consistently urged for greater parti-
cipation by the private sector in the interest of efficiency and equality.
It is encouraging that the Federal Government now seems to favor such partici-
pation, and that it is also considering reducing subsidies. A recent Bank
research paper, "Adoption of Farm Technology in Northern Nigeria", provides
evidence that fertilizer subsidies can be substantially reduced without affect-
ing demand or use. For political reasons, however, the Federal Government is
likely to adopt a cautious approach to the gradual phasing out of input
subsidies.
32.        From the point of view of project implementation, however, the
availability of adequate amounts of fertilizer on time is more important than
the fertilizer price level. Fertilizer supply has been a serious constraint
to agricultural development, particularly because of unsatisfactory arrange-
ments for the timely international procurement and distribution of fertilizer



- 10 -
and for the financing of the fertilizer subsidy. The Federal Government is in
the process of reviewing the current system of centralized, federal fertilizer
procurement and distribution in connection with the proposed construction of a
nitrogenous fertilizer plant in Nigeria, and is expected to ask for Bank-
assistance under the Agricultural Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2029-UNI)
to strengthen the existing federal fertilizer procurement agency, which is
part of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture. In addition, in all of the
state-wide ADPs, input supply companies with proper management and accounts
are being or will be established which would ensure the proper marketing of
fertilizer within the States.
33.       The Government's policy of maintaining a relatively fixed exchange
rate during a period of domestic inflation has adversely affected the price
competitiveness of some domestic farm produce compared to imported foodstuffs,
and the policy of subsidizing farm inputs has not succeeded in compensating
fully for this handicap. In an effort to protect domestic producers from
an influx of imported farm products, the Government has placed quantitative
restrictions and even outright bans on the import of some commodities. The
strategic objective has been to admit imports only to the extent that domestic
production falls short of demand. However, this is a difficult policy to
administer in practice, and it has not been able to prevent substitution by
consumers between traditional indigenous foods such as cassava and yam on
the one hand and imported food such as wheat on the other. The Government
is considering making greater use of import duties to establish an appropriate
structure of price signals, an approach that should prove more effective than
the proliferation of specific commodity imports.
34.       Policies to promote agricultural development must be pursued
against an admittedly difficult macro-economic background. In addition
to exchange rate factors, agriculture must compete with the booming modern
sector, public and private, fueled by oil revenues, and with high statutory
minimum wages. These pressures have been particularly hard to resist in the
south of the country. In the south, urban centers are more highly developed,
and agriculture has traditionally been based on export crops, which--squeezed
between rising costs and a relatively fixed exchange rate--are no longer able
to compete in overseas markets. In the middle belt and north, these pres-
sures are felt less keenly, though they are still present. Urban pull is less
powerful, and given a much smaller modern sector, statutory wage rates are
less effective in influencing private labor markets. The region's greater
distance from seaports gives some natural protection against imports of the
grain products which now form the overwhelming bulk of northern agriculture's
output. In addition, administrative protection, although erratic, has gen-
erally been effective in keeping prices of domestic foodstuffs well above
international levels. No major petroleum exporting country has found it easy
to deal with the effects of the 'oil syndrome' on productive sectors. In
Nigeria's case, continued protection for agricultural commodities appears
justified, and should be accompanied in the medium-to-long term by measures
to improve the productivity of the agricultural sector, i.e. better rural
roads, more efficient input supply, and extension services, etc. Packages of
such services to improve agricultural productivity have been successfully
pioneered under previous Bank-assisted ADPs.



- 11 -
Bank Role and Sector Lending Strategy
35.       Agriculture forms the core of the Bank's lending to Nigeria: since
1974, 22 loans for agriculture totalling US$764 million have been approved,
and loans to this sector constitute almost half of the proposed lending
program for FY1982-86. The central objective of Bank involvement in the
sector has been to increase food production and thereby raise the incomes
of rural dwellers, who are amongst the poorest in Nigeria. To this end, a
major effort has been made to develop the abilities of agencies at all levels
of government to prepare and implement agricultural projects. The Bank also
supports the Federal Government's effort to decentralize agricultural develop-
ment and to build up the role of the recently created Local Government Councils
(LGCs). Yet another instrument that may further the general objective of Bank
lending is to increase the extent to which agricultural services are provided
by private commercial institutions, or at least on a self-financing basis by
government institutions. The Bank has sought to encourage the adoption by
Government of policies on input subsidies, interest rates, and producer
pricing that are conducive to attaining the sector's development goals.
36.       Bank-supported projects in this sector fall into three broad groups.
The first includes seven projects for the development of specific crops, one
for forestry, and one for livestock. The second includes a project for the
establishment of an agricultural management training institute and one for
technical assistance. The third consists of 11 projects for the comprehensive
agricultural development of target areas, and the proposed project is of this
type. It would be similar to the statewide Bauchi State and Kano ADPs, which
were approved by the Executive Directors on April 30, 1981. The experience
under earlier ADPs has demonstrated the effectiveness of an integrated ser-
vices package in increasing farm output and farmers' incomes.
37.       It is a measure of the success of these Bank-supported projects that
the Federal Government is basing its ADA program of support for smallholder
farming on the approach adopted by the ADPs. There is evidence of a growing
awareness that financial resources alone will not solve the problems of the
agricultural sector, unless they can be deployed within the framework of an
appropriately structured set of policies. Bank strategy in the medium-term
future will be to assist the Government transform this growing awareness into
firm action. The proposed state-wide project is an important step in that
direction.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       The genesis of the proposed project is to be found within its prede-
cessor, the Gusau ADP (Loan 1099-UNI of 1975), which applied the same funda-
mental concept of farm development to an area in the east of Sokoto State.
During the mid-term review of the Gusau ADP in 1978, it was already apparent
that the basic goal of increased farm production was being achieved, and the
Sokoto State Government (SSG) asked the Bank to support a second-stage project
that would extend these benefits throughout the entire state. Preparation of
the project was done by staff of the Gusau ADP, assisted by consultants. The



- 12 -
project was appraised by the Bank in October 1980, and the staff appraisal
report (3304-UNI) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held with the Nigerian authorities at the Bank in June
1981. Although Federal and State Government approval was obtained some months
thereafter, submission of the project to the Executive Directors was held up
because of protracted discussions with the Federal Government on its nation-
wide fertilizer procurement and distribution arrangements. There is now sub-
stantial agreement between the Federal Government and the Bank on the need to
upgrade the federal fertilizer procurement agency (para. 32), although final
details of the necessary improvements are still being discussed. Supplemen-
tary data on the project is to be found in Annex III.
39.       OED's draft Project Performance Audit Report on the Gusau ADP, which
is currently being discussed with the Nigerian authorities, shows that the
project has had a significant impact upon farming in the limited project area.
Physical infrastructure has been substantially improved with the construction
of 760 km of feeder roads and 42 small dams. A network of 43 farm service
centers has been established to provide inputs and extension services to some
70,000 farmers. It is estimated that about 70 percent of these farmers have
improved their farming practices with the use of better seed varieties and
modest applications of fertilizer and pesticides. As a result, average farm
yields increased by some 20 percent and aggregate production by some 12
percent annually between 1976 and 1978. Only cotton failed to match targets,
mainly due to inefficient marketing arrangements for the crop. However,
because of the project's inherent flexibility, farmers were able to quickly
and effectively shift to more remunerative crops.
40.       Perhaps the most important lesson of the Gusau ADP has been that,
in a relatively unknown farming environment, crop recommendations should be
simple and flexible, so that farmers can easily adjust their cropping patterns
to seasonal agro-climatic conditions and structural changes. It has become
clear that farmers prefer to grow mixed crops. Future adaptive research
efforts thus need to be concentrated on the most common two or three crop
mixtures.  Because of drastic increases in labor costs, labor saving tech-
nology should be promoted.  The Gusau ADP's credit operation has not been
fully satisfactory, and future credit operations should be channeled through
specialized credit institutions linked to the cooperative movement.  Training
has been quite successful, but there is a need for better management training.
Finally, monitoring and evaluation has been somewhat too complex, and should
become management-instead of research-oriented.
Project Objectives
41.       The principal objectives of the project would be to raise the produc-
tivity and, hence, the real incomes of at least 480,000 farm families in
Sokoto State and to strengthen the State's agricultural sector administration.
The typical farmer in Sokoto cultivates about 4 hectares (ha). Average small-
holdings yield an annual farm family income of only about US$1,460, or US$220
per capita, under present agricultural practices. If participating farmers
adopt improved practices on all holdings, average family income could be raised
by as much as 70 percent in real terms,by the end of the five-year project
period. In practice, on the basis of preliminary survey results of ongoing
projects, average family income is likely to increase by around 25 percent.



- 13 -
Project Area
42.       The project area is located in Nigeria's northern savannah zone, and
includes Sokoto's total area. Mean annual rainfall in the south is 1,300 mm
during the rainy season from May through October and in the north 600 mm from
June through September. Soils are generally of low fertility, except for
certain soils in the main river valleys and flood plains (fadamas). The area
is primarily utilized for subsistence food crop production. Land pressures
have increased as a result of the high rate of growth of population, which is
now estimated at at least 5.4 million, including a rural population of about
5 million, or about 690,000 farm families.
Project Description
43.       The project would consist of a package of services to assist farm
and crop development on some 1.9 million ha in upland areas and on some
25,000 ha in fadama areas, together with strategic investment in supporting
infrastructure such as feeder roads, boreholes, rural markets, storage facil-
ities, and farm service centers. The project would also result in major
institutional improvements. It would be implemented over the 5-year period
1982-86. The project concept would correspond closely to that which has been
applied successfully in the Gusau and other ADPs in Nigeria. The project
would be the third ADP to be implemented on a statewide basis.
44.       In terms of farm and crop development, the project would increase
production through the introduction of improved farming practices and streng-
thened extension services, and the provision of improved seeds, fertilizer,
crop protection, and other support services. Most of the farmers would be
expected to adopt a basic service package (BSP) which is applicable to exist-
ing traditional farming systems. Immediate benefits would result from improved
attention to timeliness of farm operations, plant populations, and modest use
of fertilizer, insecticides, and improved seeds. The success of the BSP would
depend largely upon the efficient distribution of farm inputs by 115 farm
service centers (of which 68 would be constructed under the project) and an
effective extension service. The latter would follow the Training and Visit
system of extension which has been successfully introduced under the Ayangba
ADP (Loan 1455-UNI). Since the farming population in Sokoto is quite widely
dispersed, relatively high numbers of extension workers are needed to provide
the farmers with an effective service. Consequently, the ratio of extension-
staff to farmers would be increased from 1:4,000 to 1:600. A smaller group of
farmers would be expected to adopt the advanced service package (ASP), which
consists of more sophisticated techniques and cropping systems, such as pest
management, higher use of fertilizers, chemical weed control, and the use of
work bulls and mechanization. In the fadama areas, the ASP program would also
provide for improved flood control and low-cost pumping schemes.
45.       The project would provide for farm trials to test new technology and
farming practices, and to assess their impact not only on yields but also on
socio-economic factors such as farmers' attitudes. 1/ To facilitate the
1/   The research effort would be closely coordinated with work carried out
by national and international research organizations.



- 14 -
trials, two additional adaptive research centers and a soil testing laboratory
would be constructed. Improved seeds would be produced mainly at the existing
Gusau seed multiplication farms and at two new farms to be established under
the project. Conservation practices would be encouraged, and farmers would be
advised on the selection of good arable areas.
46.       To complement the farm and crop development effort, the project would
provide some basic infrastructure. About 1,700 km of feeder roads would be
constructed to provide all-weather access to farm service centers and to link
important agricultural areas to the main road network. Road maintenance units
would be established in each of the project's four zones (para. 49), and would
assist in the training of LGC staff in maintaining the roads after the comple-
tion of the project. After the transfer of the responsibility for road
maintenance to LGCs, the zonal workshops would provide contractual mechanical
services, and continue to be the nuclei for technical advice and training.
Water supply is critical, and the project would aim at making potable water
available to about 0.9 million people living in communities of less than
1,500 inhabitants. About 1,200 boreholes would be drilled. Project staff,
with the assistance of consultants, 1/ would prepare a comprehensive rural
water supply program, together with an implementation plan for the first year
as part of the overall action plan (para. 53). A maintenance program would be
organized to ensure the road and water facilities' proper long-term function-
ing, and the requisite arrangements, including staff training and funding,
would be reviewed by SSG with all relevant parties once a year (Sections
2.03 (b)(ii) and 2.15 of the Project Agreement). Other civil works would
include the construction of housing for project staff, buildings for project
administration and training, farm service centers, and storage facilities and
the improvement of 32 rural markets.
47.       An important component of the project would be the establishment of
the Sokoto Agricultural Service Company (SASCO) to enable it to provide an
adequate and timely supply of farm inputs to farmers throughout the state
through farm service centers and cooperative retail outlets. If necessary,
SASCO would assist with storage and marketing of crops to ensure price stabi-
lization and efficient movement of surplus.
48.       The project would provide for about 108 man-months of short-term
consultant services to prepare plans and studies in a number of areas. These
would include the development of a staff development and management training
program, follow-up planning of the project's water supply component, land use
planning, socio-economic surveys, and studies on post-project organization and
maintenance of feeder roads and rural water supply. Although the consultants
are likely to be recruited internationally, local firms would be encouraged to
participate. The cost of consultant services has been estimated at about
US$11,000 per man-month. 1/
1/   The consultants have already been hired.
2/   Including fees, travel, and per diem.



- 15 -
Project Implementation
49.       The project would embrace a range of activities which are now
nominally the responsibility of different ministries, agencies, and institu-
tions. It has been designed to introduce effective management and coordina-
tion of rural development activities which are now lacking, as well as to
strengthen the technical base needed for project execution and post-project
development, and utilizes as fully as possible the managerial and implemen-
tational experience gained under the Gusau ADP. The management unit concept
that has proved so effective under the Gusau ADP and similar projects would be
maintained, and the State would be partitioned into four agricultural zones,
each with a management subunit under the overall coordination of a Sokoto
Agricultural Program Management Unit (SAPMU).
50.       The prominence of the project within the development effort of
Sokoto State is such as to warrant that the management structure be subject
to policy guidance at the highest level of state government. For purposes of
formulating such an overall policy framework both for the project and for the
longer-term agricultural and rural development strategy of the State, an Agri-
cultural and Rural Development Policy Council (SARDPC) would be established.
The State Governor or Deputy Governor would chair this Council, and the
membership would comprise commissioners of pertinent ministries and co-opted
representatives from selected agencies as well as the program manager of the
proposed project. The Council would also consider and approve the annual
project budget.
51.       To supervise the implementation of SARDPC policies, and to coordinate
the operational aspects of the project on a more regular basis, an Executive
Committee (SADPEC) would be established under the chairmanship of a repre-
sentative of the Governor. The permanent secretaries of pertinent ministries
and the senior project management (including the four zonal managers) would
constitute the core membership of SADPEC. Its responsibilities would include
the appointment of senior staff, the drawing-up of an annual project budget,
and approving the award of all procurement contracts valued at N100,000 or
more.  The establishment of SARDPC, SADPEC, and SAPMU would be a condition of
effectiveness (Sections 6.01 of the Loan Agreement and 2.01 of the Project
Agreement).
52.       In each zone, there would be established a Zonal Agricultural Devel-
opment Advisory Committee (ZAIDAC), which would bring together the senior zonal
project staff and representatives from LGCs and traditional councils. In
addition to providing a forum for consultation and coordination to expedite
project implementation, the ZADACs would be instrumental in mobilizing the
rural population in support of the project.
53.       The project would be implemented by SAPMU, which would be headed by
a program manager. Staff for its agriculture, feeder roads, and rural water
supply divisions would be mainly seconded from the Ministry of Rural Develop-
ment and Cooperatives and LGCs for the duration of the project. The four
zonal managers would be responsible to the program manager for the imple-
mentation of the program within their respective zones. In particular, they



- 16 -
would initiate the annual work program and budget and be responsible for the
zonal extension effort, training, and infrastructure development. It would
be a condition of effectiveness that an action plan, detailing specific
investments and project activities for the first project year, had been
prepared by the State (Sections 6.01 of the Loan Agreement and 2.03(b)(ii) of
the Project Agreement).
54.       SASCO would be responsible for the efficient and cost effective
distribution of fertilizers, seeds, insecticides, pumps, and other farm inputs
and services. Farm inputs would be distributed through the farm service
centers and cooperative retail outlets. All farm service centers would be
staffed by SASCO, except where a well-functioning cooperative society would
be able to run a center's commercial services. It would be a condition of
effectiveness that SASCO had been legally established as a publicly-owned
company, and that SSG and the Sokoto Cooperative Federation (SCF), the two
major shareholders, had each made initial equity payments of Nl million
(Sections 6.01 of the Loan Agreement and 2.02 and 2.03(a)(iv) of the Project
Agreement).
55.       An important project objective would be to strengthen and expand
cooperative input supply, credit, and crop marketing efforts. SCF's participa-
tion in SASCO would be essential, since it would allow the eventual takeover
of the company by cooperatives. However, if cooperatives are to play a more
active role, they will require technical and financial assistance. The
project would therefore provide SCF with the services of an experienced
agricultural credit specialist, train cooperatives' sales staff, and finance
the salaries of about 220 cooperative union managers and primary society
secretaries for three years. The assistance should enable SCF to handle most
of the seasonal and medium-term credit requirements, which would be quite
limited in scope. No credit would be financed by the Bank. In those areas
where SCF is not yet established, SASCO would be allowed to supply inputs and
implements to individual farmers on a deferred payment basis. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that SSG would take all necessary steps to
ensure the availability of adequate funds to SCF (Section 2.03(a)(vi) of the
Project Agreement). Finally, to ensure that cooperatives have an adequate
capital base to engage effectively in the project's marketing and credit
operations, assurances were also obtained that SSG would grant each union
N5,000 and each society N500, amounting to about NO.5 million in total, as
working capital (Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement).
56.       To stimulate improved irrigation practices in the fadama areas, the
project would provide grants for land improvements and the purchase of pumps.
The grants would be administered by a special Fadama Development Fund, super-
vised by SAPMU, which SSG has agreed to establish with an initial deposit
of NO.9 million (Section 2.03(a)(vii) of the Project Agreement). The pumps
would be stocked by SASCO, and would he sold at 70 percent of cost, for which
medium-term credit would be provided by SCF. SAPMU would assist in identi-
fying potential borrowers, and in preparing their loan applications. To
encourage proper land levelling and bunding, the Fund would also grant 10,000
fadama farmers each N100, about 30 percent of the land development cost, for
the first ha developed. First priority would be given to farmers adopting pump



- 17 -
irrigation techniques. The total amount of grants for land improvement and
pumps over the project period would amount to about US$8 million.
57.       The project's monitoring and evaluation component has been designed
for minimal data collection, simple analytical techniques, and quick feedback
to provide management with information to aid implementation and planning.
The responsible section would liaise closely with the federal evaluation unit
in Kaduna, which would provide technical support for standard surveys, process
evaluation data, and train project monitoring and evaluation staff.
58.       Staffing of both the specialized project activities and overall
management functions at state and zonal levels will be germane to the success
of the project. In the 11 ongoing ADPs, the Bank has encouraged state
governments to recruit qualified Nigerians for senior positions, but it has
proved extremely difficult to find suitable candidates. In order to upgrade
local skills, a program of intensive training is envisaged, particularly at
the start of the project. However, initially, the project has to rely on the
international recruitment of key managerial and technical staff. Since the
contracts of these staff would extend over a number of years, the average cost
per man-month would be US$9,000--significantly lower than the cost of short-
term consultants. 1/ The Bank's own Agricultural Projects Management Unit
for West Africa has assisted in recruiting the proposed project's program
manager, and he has already taken up his position. However, 34 additional
staff for SAPMU, SASCO, and SCF would have to be recruited internationally (4
have been recruited so far). Sokoto State would set up its own recruitment
agency rather than hiring consultants for the supply of senior staff for SAPMU
and SCF. Consequently, it would be a condition of loan effectiveness that a
project recruiting agency be established to the satisfaction of the Bank and
the Federal Government. It would, similarly, be a condition of loan effec-
tiveness that the Bank be furnished with a draft contract for the management
of SASCO, including the supply of senior managerial and commercial staff, to
be executed between SSG and a commercial concern with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Bank (Sections 6.01 of the Loan Agreement and
2.04 of the Project Agreement).
59.       Specialized training courses would be established for all levels of
staff in the agronomic and related technical fields. Farmer training would be
conducted by mobile training units. Extension staff would be trained during
one-year courses at two existing residential schools and one to be established
under the project. SAPMU's training staff would also liaise with SASCO on the
training of its staff and with state and LGC officials in developing adequate
training programs in areas related to project activities such as the mainte-
nance of feeder roads and water facilities.
60.       It is envisaged that project implementation along these lines would
permit a smooth transition towards self-sustained development in the post-
project period. At the end of the project, SAPMU's operating divisions and
1/   Including salary, allowances, gratuity, medical and education benefits,
settlement costs, international travel, and company overheads.



- 18 -
staff, technically stronger and accustomed to operating in a coordinated way,
would be absorbed in the Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperatives and
LGCs. The program manager and his evaluation staff would continue as coor-
dinators responsible to the Commissioner of the Ministry. To facilitate this
transition, assurances were received at negotiations that plans for the longer
term development of agriculture in Sokoto, including detailed plans for the
future maintenance of feeder roads and rural water supply facilities, be drawn
up for discussion between the Bank, the Federal Government, and SSG no later
than the fourth year of the project (Section 2.14 of the Project Agreement).
Project Costs
61.       Total costs for the project period 1982-86 are estimated at US$499
million (including taxes and duties of US$28 million) of which the foreign
exchange component would amount to US$221 million or 44 percent. A break-
down of cost by major categories is given in the Loan and Project Summary.
Allowance has been made for physical contingencies equal to 5 percent of base
costs for all items, except for civil works and rural water supply schemes for
which the allowance is 10 and 25 percent, respectively. Price contingencies
for local construction and operating costs allow for an annual rate of infla-
tion at 15 percent except for local salaries and labor directly employed by
the project which are calculated at 10 percent. Price contingencies for
foreign costs are estimated at 8.5 percent for 1982, 7.5 percent for 1983-85,
and 6 percent thereafter. On this basis, total contingencies are estimated at
39 percent of base costs.
Project Financing
62.       The proposed loan of US$147 million to the Federal Government would
finance 32 percent of total project cost, net of taxes and duties, and would
be equivalent to the full foreign exchange cost of the project net of incre-
mental fertilizer costs. The full amount of US$147 million would be onlent by
the Borrower to Sokoto State on the same terms as the Bank loan. Sokoto State
would carry the foreign exchange risk. The signing of a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Federal Government and SSG would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the Loan Agreement). The Federal Government
would finance 25 percent of total project cost other than the cost of farm
inputs. This 25 percent, when added to the federal subsidy on incremental
fertilizer requirements 1/, amounts to US$141 million or 28 percent of total
project costs. Of the remaining US$210 million total project costs, SSG would
contribute US$155 million 2/ and the participating farmers another US$55
million by way of purchasing farm inputs. Their respective shares in total
project costs, therefore, would amount to 31 and 11 percent, respectively.
1/   Fertilizer subsidy policy described in paragraphs 31 and 64.
2/   Excluding about US$3 million as contributions to SASCO and the coopera-
tives (paras. 54 and 55; not part of project costs).



- 19 -
63.       To ensure the timely and adequate provision of counterpart funding,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (a) as a condition of
loan effectiveness, a commercial bank account be opened for SAPMU with
initial deposits of N3 million each from SSG and the Federal Government;
(b) as a further condition of loan effectiveness, SSG guarantee any over-
drafts drawn by SAPMU covering at least three months' project expenditures
up to N5 million; (c) as another condition of effectiveness, a commercial
bank account be opened for SASCO with initial deposits of NI million from
each SSG and SCF by way of equity contributions; (d) the Bank disburse funds
directly to SAPMU's commercial bank account; (e) SAPMU submit to the Federal
Government, SSG, and the Bank, at least four months prior to the beginning of
each fiscal year, an annual budget proposal for the project as approved by
SARDPC; (f) both the Federal Government and SSG provide their quarterly
contributions to the project at least three months in advance in accordance
with SAPMU's approved annual budget; (g) in the event the project does not
receive promptly funding from SSG, the Federal Government be authorized to pay
directly to the project's commercial bank account that part of the State's
statutory allocation corresponding to its agreed financial support for the
project; and (h) audited accounts of both SAPMU and SASCO be submitted to the
Bank within four months after each fiscal year (Sections 2.02(b) and 6.01 of
the Loan Agreement and 2.03, 2.06, 2.12, and 3.02 of the Project Agreement).
Cost Recovery
64.       SASCO would recover all costs for procurement and distribution of
seeds, chemicals, sprayers, and agricultural implements through appropriate
charges to the farmer. Only in the case of diesel pumps (para. 56) and where
government policy provides for explicit subsidization would an exception be
made. It was agreed at negotiations that SSG and the Bank would annually
review and agree on SASCO's cost recovery policies and practices to ensure
that the cost of any input or service is fully recovered (Section 2.06(d) of
the Project Agreement). The most prominent case of government subsidy policy
is that of fertilizer where present policy is to charge the farmer a fixed
price amounting to only 15 percent of total fertilizer cost at the farm gate
in Sokoto. The remaining cost is covered by state and federal subsidies.
65.       As mentioned in paragraph 32, the availability of adequate amounts
of fertilizer on time is crucial to the success of the ADPs. Consequently,
assurances have been received from the Federal Government that Sokoto State
would receive adequate and timely amounts of fertilizer for the project
(Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement). A strengthened federal fertilizer
procurement agency (para. 32) would be responsible for delivering fertilizer
to SASCO for retail distribution throughout Sokoto State.
Marketing
66.       In view of Nigeria's growing food deficit (para. 27), the projected
increase in food grain production of the project from about 1.3 million tons
at present to an estimated 2.1 million tons at the end of the project period
would be easily absorbed. At that time, the state's total marketable surplus
of 0.8 million tons would be a mere 8 percent of the 1990 national food deficit.



- 20 -
The demand for foodcrops is likely to remain firm in view of growing urbaniza-
tion and increasing income levels, and farmers are not expected to meet any
serious marketing problems. The exception could be for maize, which enters
only peripherally into the local diet, and has to be exported mainly to the
south. To ensure proper marketing, the Nigerian Grains Board is in the process
of streamlining its operations, and SASCO would be authorized to organize,
when necessary, temporary buying markets on behalf of the Board in the main
producing areas (para. 47). In addition, the project would assist marketing
by financing on- and off-farm storage facilities, training marketing staff,
and establishing a simple market intelligence system.
Procurement
67.       Contracts for chemicals and agricultural implements, vehicles,
tractors, road building and other equipment, including spare parts, amounting
to US$200,000 or more, would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines. Local competitive bidding
(LCB) in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank would be employed
for contracts between US$60,000 and US$200,000. For contracts of US$60,000
and less, local competitive shopping would be employed. Domestically manufac-
tured goods procured under ICB would be allowed a 15 percent preference or the
applicable import duty, whichever is lower, for purposes of bid evaluation.
The aggregate cost of the above items is estimated at about US$126 million, of
which about US$50 million would be expected to be procured locally. Civil
works, including buildings, boreholes, and materials for road construction,
valued at about US$76 million, would be procured by ICB for contracts of US$2
million and more. LCB would be allowed for smaller contracts which in our
experience would not prove attractive to foreign contractors. Of the civil
works, about US$60 million would be expected to be awarded to locally estab-
lished firms. The services of consultants and internationally-recruited staff
and overseas training, valued at about US$26 million, would be obtained on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursements
68.       The proposed loan would be disbursed during the period 1983-87.
Disbursement would be made against 100 percent of foreign exchange expendi-
tures on vehicles, tractors, road building and other equipment, and farm
inputs excluding fertilizer. In cases where items are locally procured,
disbursement would be made against 85 percent or, in the case of farm inputs,
70 percent of total expenditure, the items' estimated foreign exchange compo-
nents. For contracts for borehole drilling, disbursement would be made
against 100 percent of foreign cost or 70 percent of total expenditure.  For
buildings and other civil works, disbursement would be made against 50 percent
of total expenditure. The cost of salaries and allowances of internationally-
recruited staff and consultant services and overseas training would be fully
compensated. On this basis, total disbursements are estimated at US$72.2.
million against vehicles, equipment, and farm inputs, US$9.0 million against
borehole drilling, US$28.0 million against buildings and other civil works,
US$23.0 million against internationally recruited staff, consultants, and
overseas training,of local staff. An additional provision of US$14.8 million



- 21 -
has been made on an unallocated basis. Provision has been made for up to
US$1.0 million of retroactive financing for key internationally-recruited
staff to assist in project start-up activities.
Economic Benefits
69.       The overall economic rate of return is estimated to be 20 percent,
excluding the rural water supply component (which represents only 6 percent of
total project cost) for which it was not possible to quantify all of the
benefits resulting from safe and secure water supply. This rate of return is
more or less in line with those estimated for the ongoing ADPs. Sensitivity
tests show that, even if farmer adoption rates are only 50 percent of targeted
levels, the rate of return would still be equal to 15 percent.
70.       Most of the project beneficiaries would be smallholder farmers,
cultivating on average 4 ha. There are an estimated 690,000 farm families
in Sokoto and, assuming that 70 percent of them adopt some of the improved
farm practices, some 480,000 families, or about 3 million people, would
benefit directly from the project's agricultural components. The present
level of farm income in the south of the project area amounts to an average of
only US$230 per capita and in the north about US$210 per capita 1/ as compared
to a rural absolute poverty level in Nigeria provisionally estimated to be
about US$230. If farmers adopt improved practices for all crops, their per
capita income would increase substantially, to about US$400 in the south and
US$340 in the north. These comparisons show that the project would greatly
increase the income of poor farmers, and thus help narrow the income gap
between rural and urban areas in Sokoto State.
71.       In addition, the project is expected to yield a number of other,
albeit non-quantifiable, benefits concerning improvement of rural roads and
water supplies, training of technical and cooperative staff, and development
of related state institutions. The latter would facilitate the transfer of
project activities to the existing ministries and agricultural organizations
at the end of the project period.
72.       Direct employment generation would amount to about 18,000 man-years
of hired labor requirements. In addition, the higher level of economic
activity in the project area would induce some non-farm employment in other
sectors.
Project Risks
73.       There are no unusual project risks.  Like other statewide ADPs
assisted by the Bank, the project would introduce, on a larger scale, many of
the successful management and organizational techniques adopted in the ongoing
ADPs, including the State's Gusau ADP. The project's agronomic features are
tried, the four zonal units are each not much larger than the Gusau unit, and
1/   The lower per capita income in the north can be explained by its rela-
tively worse climatic and agronomic characteristics.



- 22 -
the project organization integrates and strengthens mostly existing institu-
tions. Nevertheless, sound management, regular and timely financing, and
efficient and dependable procurement and distribution of farm inputs would be
essential to the success of the project.  In the longer term, the transition
of the project activities to local institutions would also be essential. On
all points, the agreements reached during negotiations should be adequate.
74.       Given state and federal intentions to increase the share of revenues
directed to agricultural development, the project cost is regarded as realis-
tic within the overall financial resources likely to be available to the
State. The State's share would come to about N35 million per annum, whereas
in its five-year development plan, SSG has allocated nearly N200 million for
the proposed project and related activities out of a development budget of
N1 billion.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Sokoto State
of Nigeria, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
76.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III including the following conditions of effectiveness of the loan, set
out in Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement: (a) signing of Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Borrower and Sokoto State; (b) establishment by Sokoto
State of the Sokoto Agricultural and Rural Development Policy Council, the
Sokoto Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee, and the Sokoto
Agricultural Program Management Unit (SAPMU) in a form and with powers and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank; (c) establishment by Sokoto State of
a recruiting agency for the supply of senior staff for SAPMU; (d) preparing of
draft management contract with consultancy firm for supply of staff for Sokoto
Agricultural Service Company (SASCO); (e) opening of a commercial bank account
for SAPMU with initial deposits of N3.0 million each by Borrower and Sokoto
State; (f) arrangement of overdraft facilities for SAPMU, equivalent to three
months of SAPMU's expenditures up to N5 million, in a commercial bank,
guaranteed by Sokoto State; (g) establishment of SASCO, including payment of
N2 million in equity by Sokoto State and the Sokoto Cooperative Federation;
and (h) drafting of 1982 Action Plan.
77.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 28, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 24-                                          ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
NIGERIA - SOCIAL INDIGATORS DATA SHEET
NIGERIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE5AGES
LAND) AREA (ItHiusAND S. KMl.)                                                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            923.8                                  MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOMiE
AGRICULTURAL     448.4               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE tb  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
gNP PEK CAPITA (USs)                  l1o.U        250.0      670.0                 794.2                   1616.2
ENEK(Y CONSUtlPIIUN PER CAPITA
(KILOOKAMS UF COAL EqUIVALENr)       28.8         46.2      83.0                 707.5                   1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
PoPULAIION, MID-YEAK (THLOUSANDS) 51598.0      66182.0   82603.0
UKiAN POPULATION (PERCENI OF TOTAL) 13.1          16.4      20.0                  27.7                      64.2
PUPULATION PROJECllONS
POPULAlIoN IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       161.3
STAILONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         459.0
YEAR SIATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2105
PUPULATION DENSITY
PER Sq. KMI.                       55.9         71.6      89.4                  55.0                      34.3
PER Sq. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    125.0         152.0     179.7                 130.7                     94.5
POPULAIION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YIS.                          45.4         46.6      47.6                  46.0                     40.7
15-o4 YIS.                          52.3         51.0      50.0                  51.2                     55.3
b5 YKS. AND ABOVE                    2.3          2.4       2.4                   2.8                      4.0
PoPULATION GKOWTH RATE (PEKCENT)
TIOAL                               2.4          2.5       2.5                   2.8                      2.4
URBAN                               4.7          4.7       4.7                   5.1                       3.7
uRLDE bIKTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      51.9         50.6      49.7                  46.9                      31.4
CRUDE DEATH KAIE (PER IHOUSAND)      25.0         20.5      17.1                  15.8                       8.4
GKRbS KEPROOUCTION RATE               3.4          3.4        3.4                   3.2                      2.3
EASilLY PLANNINO
ACCFTOURS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          7.6      33.2
USERS (PERCENT oF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
Eooo AND NUIRIILON
INDEX uF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (19b9-711=0U)           (00.0       102.0      86.0                  89.9                    108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMIENTS)                   79.0         82.0      83.0                  92.3                    107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           43.0         44.0      45.0                  52.8                     65.8
OF WHILC  ANLIAL AND PULSE       11.0         10.0      11.0                  16.1                     34.0
CHILD (AGLS 1-4) MORTALITY KATE      37.4         29.3      22.4                   20.2                      7.6
ILEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    38.7          44.0      48.5                  50.8                      64.1
INFANI tiORTALiTY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               .        154.0/c       ..                   ..                      70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPLATIUON)
ToTAL                                ..           ..        ..                  27.4                     65.7
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  74.3                     79.7
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  12.6                     43.9
ACCESS To EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULAIION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..                   ..                      59.9
URBAii                               ..           ..        ..                    ..                      75.7
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                   ..                      30.4
POPULATIoN PER PHYSICIAN          73711.4      24667.2   15742.0               13844.1                    1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSIlNG PERSON     6020.0/8    5073.0    4012.7                 2898.6                    1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2765.0/e    2221.7    1369.5                 1028.4                     471.2
URBAN                                ..        494.4     373.8                 423.0                    558.0
RURAL                                ..      18488.8    5494.7                3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..
HoUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                                      4.7
RUKAL                                ..           ..
AVEKAGE NUMEER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                               3.0           ..       2.2
RUKAL
ACGCSS To ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWLLLINGS)
TOTAL                              81.0           ..
URKAN                              81.3           ..      42.4
KURAL                                 ..          ..



- 25 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
NIGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NIGERIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AGnS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOMF
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 36.0         32.0       62.0                  73.7                     101.7
MALE                  46.0         41.0        ..                   96.8                    103.0
FEMALE                27.0         24.0        ..                  79.0                     101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   4.0         6.0       13.0                  16.2                      35.3
MALE                   6.0          8.0        ..                  25.3                      34.9
FEMALE                 1.0          4.0        ..                   14.8                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   5.0           8.5        3.0/f                 5.3                      30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             30.0        34.0       34.0                  36.2                      29.6
SECONDARY                           19.0        21.0       25.0                  23.6                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.4           ..        ..                    ..                      80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.7          0.9        ..                  32.3                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.8        19.3       66.8                  69.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.1          1.1       5.7                   8.0                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    8.0         4.8        6.9                  20.2                      62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..       0.5                   0.7                       3.2
LAEOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    21788.5       25991.9   30310.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   41.3         40.6       39.9                  36.7                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               70.8        62.1       54.7                  56.6                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  10.4        13.8       18.4                  17.5                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42.2         39.3      36.7                  37.2                      31.8
MALE                                  50.3        47.3       44.6                  47.1                      49.0
FEMALE                                34.4        31.5       29.0                  27.5                      14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1          1.2       1.4                    1.3                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     472.0                 381.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..      181.0                 156.2                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     402.0                 334.3                     513.9
i,URAL                                ..          ..      134.0                 137.6                     362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOhE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
Ic   1965-66 average;  /d 1963;  /e Including ex-North Cameroon under British administration;  /f Certain
fields of study previously classified under other second level education of vocational or technical
nature are now reported under general education.
May, 1981



- 26 -                                                                           AINLNiX I
Page 3 of 5
ohPlNIyll'h Of SOIAL 1hyaCAVoyl
totem'  Although the d-tat  deau  fro   souce .ge-ralY judged the  -ot  -uho-icutilotatdte;lhle-  it  hooald ulaa  totd thut chap toy eat ha ttt--
nationally comparable Itoaceeofthelc   o   todtie   dditrosadcntcutd by diff-eret  -ta-ro   in  -oli-tlg cAt dat.  The data set, ..
ThT rfeenegrup. ae...            te  ae..oct   etp  ffh   sbjctconeyau   ()ucueeygou  oebureha  hgerontaeitemdca  the ...uacy gr-p
moclo-colourulsi flolciet) .In cIt re ferefagrupdte    th  oreg    at e p            -s no   nighted aritbhtI   etsfrml  llae  and uho.- tn1y chat
otd it noronf-r, oao-loo mooI hen..trisad  io reianuag  -o-e e  ofoe  tedi-orr  to aot1har   Thueanrue ae olo  -urful In  -op-log  the -1.lo  of
to  roe   etor       al  .. ....aauce  obha oo y and refer--eto    rua
LHait uoRu (thousand eq-n)                                                                             Foloc   p IaulBc!- -cco,  t-o-, -nd tota  - topolc--o fe-to,
Total - oT..!.. suface area oomptnio   lund are  cod Ila-d nunr .ubu, and r.ral) olnided hy nhfer eetpoctc one1t choep cahda-
Eololual-Isinae of ogrilroerlaaoa    epert  o   eeoeInlal   npulcedpoaegntle d epedi ahteed  hospea  en.dre
for -rop, pemer-  , -takt and kitchen gard ne or n  le fal.-o  117  d- a.                           lo'll) tatI_etr.-talasreeelemn                                emmnly steffed
by ac lrae   -n  phpaioia..  Establiehee.nte  petnidig princlpehily  -on-
gN ll ttFopTo ~(Ill) - AlO  fa p capicaatn   e  an7  roorr   ot             -r1a,    -                   d"Ia  ..ar    .. ens non   rods.  ruralyhosp'itals   .e.nr...      ad   eae
luoa   y sane  o-e-i-o tetohd co Worl    fulala          712-70 huis; 1911.                       cod redlo-   rtle-- not Pereatotl  stffedhpahyica   la  hy
19).ad 1919 do_                                                                                       medIcal ...sia-i . torte, .tdalfa, tnt) shtrh offerlaptetcoms-
d,1olno ad pror,idealitticd  ratfe  tf eedical fa                   F-eee      -r tst-
rlcEGY _CONSUMtPTION ?ER CAPITA - Ae-1e  --oPtoep - of conarlal.  e..t9ry (calclel purpo ete uban hoapacle1 iolode Wills pelm-1pa1/general.  hospitals,
and llgeee, pe.r.le.e. ......l ge  cod  hydr- ..        uol..er cod  teaelat-ad esrI henpita14 loca   tersa  h-apinale and med c-1i ad sa -itn y
trIot Ity) to kliogra-  of  oo  Fqiata          -e r-pito   1960,91191,adlt                            -oe r -.  Sp.eielfi-d beepleola  r  tiooued  el  undr  toi.
dana                                                                                                Ad.tteiona per Hospital led - T""a  cuebe  ofadaseetordohgs
from hoepinala dtaided bp Iha number f bade.
POPULATylN _All IALd _STATISTICS
Ttoal ?poo1laelo    aid-Year  alcoacoda) - Au of Jaly 1; 1960, 1970, cod 19)9                     HOUSING
data.                                                                                             A-etrn  Slan of   ..ooetl,~d(prneerhshoa-te ,oia,ndoe-
Irban Poploto,      )erae  ofte) - RatIo af orb- orn  tota  Doyolaeioo;                                A ho..tehold oett  of agop  1ldniu. es                        rehln   qu.ne.e
dlffare_   defltiona  of urba  ereas ray afet-opara blltlop f data                                  and their maemel.          A hoadero  ledger may ormy no  be inelsdmd It
amo   aere;1960, 1970, cod 1919 doe                                                               the houeholdfa  atcicica    -purlcsas
Pofalartor PojeroloneAuerame ecmbero   esn    a  roeIctl   ra. d rural -Anerge no--
totll  poplattonl bp cge and  ..o cod theIr norrlliry ad ferilitp  rates                          dsm1liogs,  -epeoliely.  tell ttgea-1adeno--per            -aasmcr-etemat.d
Proeoloeti  parameter  for  .....ia y retai  comprtst of  h    1-r1eimee         _  .esu-         ut-p-edpat
fo   .f         . rpenocya-  birch  Inrcelg ith  .oonty 's per -pcita totos                    Access no rl.tocrlc y (pe-ceec of  d....)     aa,  ra,an   ua  -
1-ol  aed fera1a  life  -op--t y acbtliattg at1.1    years.  The peru-                            -enetec  dneltiogm  sitb e1cnrioitny ft liin-uatetaspernt
et-er  ftr f-ra1ity rate olco bane three lads-            nut     deollne  In                     of tonal, urban, ted rura  deal) lge  eer.          o
ftrtllt'ye...o.dtg to ito..ee lane  aed Pas  familypnegperforanc.
E-ch coo11y ia tb-am  ige        .oeo  them.ecite  -otbitoatn   of mortaity                   EDI1ldTION
aodfatilicy treds fo   fjrio   upssdluuted inrola-e  R.tat-
heenicoro poplenlon)nasraiorcy   poplalo  thtal  00 groth alrirmayebo--crl   -1.l and femal  - Croatca,ml-edfml
ebe birch rate  is equal toth  anh ch rena  co        tloheaegumroco r-e...e nofal   ge  a'he primar  len) am pte-e-eeag     of tepertn
ma b    e ...oue,u   hIo . tos aulledony after tertlIt"y rate  deot- to                              proari    ebo.-g   peolter;noally' Inod-e rhildmo eged 6- 1
ekh, plceen      -lne  of url  ne  reedoeone,  cit  eah'll                  ra I'll                 years bun adIjusted Ier dilfmeat-  hengeha of primay edure tela
of eca    eicnisi   ocey                 h   nceeypplnlntee                                           onre   fbosnra   dcct   oalen   apeea   l   efa
-eem-od  -t the basis of eke projeoneduhrcr srso  the populeetormo-ua   pplle aebel-a araon                                                        th'a."h. reaae
In the yer211, and rho rul  of delite of ferill te  rae torepla-e-                               Ilecueer  scol    oal         1ue aed female - ap-nd at abon-  aeo-d-yp
learacan bourn oopulutloo In reochad -The yea  bobar  atoiecy  epopuleio                   prole   gemal   eatcni  o   tahr   rlee                     tiner  tons--- far paib
mite ham bent  eabad.                                                                                -aoaly of 12 to 17 year  at a m;  oreaspeed-meo   --sre  are gen..rellp
Occuioe  -eeit                                                                                          e-I.ded.
km .   -.  Mld-peat popolu-lne pan eqou-  kilaa..a-  (ll h--eare) of                            lotsaerlec  peanof  ...enad-r)    Vae-ieni-   Ittitut tent
t-co         1960 Ok, 1970 ood 1919 da.                                                             i-1lodenobl           i,td-serlal  or ether programs  hlch.apenate  ied.p.nd-
Per su. ls. aenkoaaural lud - C..m...ad cm abo-  foe agricultura  1cd                           manly or es depa-tmac.     o t  medar   onlain.
only; tlkO. 1910 and 19)8 dat.-                                                                   Poil--eeharrt I             mr.ad ..e-d-ye - Tla   crdec .. r.l..d- te
.ParuIon beeA.  S-erueumlrr              _C) hilde   fl-la yeerml. mocking-age  ~15-                     peleary and  -acedary lenel  dinided by  embe-  ef  -erers ..Im  the
64 ynere), aed retired (685 pratt and  -nr) as pre--cges of mid-yea  rpo,-                             co apein   anl..
latlool 1960, lO7l, aed 19719Ian.                                                                    Mi  literay rate  (Fraeec.) -Literat  ado1ts  (shim  no ted aed write)
PooaIiaoleir-thnace)rtre-,t)            -1 -cocal  ~-eo er chcactee ftotIaod-                              epto oa ofae-a1aduIppcl-citosg,eals  ye-csetdee
yea  popul1-ti-  for 1950-60. 1960-70, aed 19Pl0-9.
P.,laio  Recthiot  lerorEc .1 o a- nAe-I groan brtes of arbor Pop-                                C0ONSIIPTION
loaon   for 1952fl  IgI0         ,an.0019                                                          esoe1Cr9fmcoeed  eelce)-Pse.g.                               or  cmrs    ae
Crd    ichtac   per' ithousand   -nua ine hiribs per tho..a.od of eld-y.ar                       oars teat lo  I,:.n thet eight perte...   en -ledeeeho           h,baremm
poealec    19f. 781, t-d 1929 duo-                                                                  elitear _hnklrte.
Crude Death late  (perhas        )-A Aisi. Idetah  per  h-eunads of ed-p..r                         hadic tRein er h(n   ksadprito)-All typee of  rclesfar  -di.
popolatiar; 1960, l19l  "ed 1919 data,                                                              br.eadtame  te  _enra  pobio ereesnefpolin;midea-
dru -erd-oioo ha ne-An -ge  -ober of doughteranc,    - 11 Iaa I-  ilieeeed                                    .:,I r -enr  Ie....i.  ae   it peyre abet  -gianrentitef radie
her norma  reprodoot1yior: ieo   if  h   eetma    rel  ag-epeifl  Pe-tsc   t  i    Itn  dat                                      -o ca  peara may mot he cemp-rble sinc
'lt,lc    __es  usaly   io -ea  a,:huoea eding i  1960, l970, aed 19)79f                            mat oet..r~ime  abe)1fakd   nntg
F-ullo Pl-aieg-Anetpt-orm          .. do Ia (ehsee...da) - Annual number ef ac-pace                 TV Rfmelne-re.,e thoea...d Peotl)- TV em-en--  far b-edo... tat
of birth-oe-gro  d-oot  coder a-pioea of eatlo-l feaily ple-ilg P-egrem.                            geealpblic per rhosm d popaletitleaoseol.mse;i  eemr
fcmllrPlanola-iser  frerren ef arotedtaste)- Pe...ent-ga of maeldloouein.d                                  ityaehnemgseio of T   eesae  aftet
ene   fc id- heiei age (15-44 yere  eke. ore bcr-h- -onr   d-nles  elerpr   iolle  (per tha..s.nd epSeham   -ibe   the a-ergm   i
al    are   cee   tma   g   rop                                                                       caino  "daiy genei  it-ra    deeepr.feriatd esperiodice
rablio-tlotdantad  premaray to  -ecodine gemme    me. e  i  c                  .aad-
PlOtD AD  NUTRITIONl                                                                                     no be 'dully,  if it ePPru-sa  le-e  fertms-              eet
ledmoo   eo    rdato    e f      ape   18-1.)-Indaa of per capIta actua                             Cflee Ats-aa icte a    rrCpita teP er    ae  e   h   ubra
produriet of all food  "'eeditlt.   Prduc -o aoldes teed aid feed end                               rickets eal  durng eb   et   eldlgeaain    o   nef    iee
le on -al-da-  pea  ba-.   loreon leecee  primary goode (e.g. eueoaesd eabile  -nim.
"inee    o  maaI  hIck ar  edible e.           ocIt -tien-   ft.ga. toffee ond
taaeeoodd.Agetee podctonofeho -autrp Ie bc...d enW. FAORCEfI
eaioa    Pnrg    prduer proremght;1911-h5  19ff, sod 1919 data.                                   Tota  lakrroc   (Eauede      iaemically aecint peetee.                 alda
Per rapIra maply of clortee  penceecof reaoreemne)   C-Cmp-d fro                       re   oom    n   a lye   u   aldigkteenn  en teoc,et,
enegpqcoata   o  mn  eo   mpp ie oneilebl  It occoery per c plea                        toetgpyleono   l   gm                    efleittoa   in tar so  t_outerim er
per day.  un-olabla  -opplies coapel a  dc..eeeti  peedu-cle I nperee less                        not  -op-rblel 1965, 1970 end 1909 data.
reprts  -e-hgtatsok.  l.trcesppliasrnclnde anima  feed, -erde,                                  femal Irerem-t  - F-el  later force at p.e--nrge of  -eal   bler feem.
qasecleiasuemd  e foed procemelg, and loate  In dlsriula.  eole-Ariuiaa  pecnt    Lahee f-re it fa-ieg.  oeny    utn    e
maccm    - aera mimaed by FuA  based 00 phymllgeltea .t frora                    i-               fiahiog                   o aenta    f tota  labor fetee; 1 198, l9ll aed 191  deer:.
elt  ad health  -_ridor,iog  ..ier....ota  c-p-ereur, hoay emlghte. age                       nd_str_ (peret) -L.bha  foece in mi..g  .e..ai,   asfetuting
adsed-ibehhtioc of populetint, aed al11-ing 10 per-  for asset ated 'e lleeioly, -ner end getem  euneee -tee et                                                   rfot;  oo
hoc-aho1Id I;eesl   lk-6A5, 19711, aed 1921 dues.                                                 19070 and 1919 dan..
Per eapta mapir of  roneit  greet  er day   - Protein  re--e  of pe  :. Pita          Penorte   at   ereeI-tetal  mae.ea  fe le - Pmentirliptieee
net suPply of fed-  per day.nt  upYoffood is defintd as abn.-   Re-                                aoiuiyrtmaaee              mds  nee,   ae, d femlelaerf-tee
qutree..ets for1 all ..urt,e, rseabtahe  bp DI0  proide for- efs                                  pero..t.ft  of tenI, ealt ad femal  pepu1etten ef all age   epretteely;
oloa   f Of grete of ttalProtein  Par day sod .1grame of rlma  oad                          1961, 1910, and 1919 data.  Theme ar  based an tIpC's psrtipetienratm
poe    roen    feabeh 11 groom  thould be anima  por1  t   Theme stand-                   tfleptteoe-,           enot      of the P.aP.,aetan, mad l-g  tite tren.A
arIa or  loo_  tha  Ikaeh    o  1)gr of    o  toa    roenad 23 g-am   of                          fetc'mntrefo   nacena..I. trere..
asin    Protein  am ..a.-rege for  eA  -eui, propoud by PAl in the Third                         roEel ere    deno..otlo    Rtnie of pepultien under 11 end 65 end ce-
.'nrd Pood lor-ap; 1961-65  197  an d 1971 dera.                                                  to  the ro-1 tebor furo.
Per e IopeemIei inaptl  from aetma end rosa~ - ProItltsupl  of food din-
rI-ed from     i anmls cod polere lo greet per dp;1961-65, 19170 and 19 7 dtI.-               IncItE DISITIBVTIlN
ChOld)             -tOOotlbo   tut(ecthcoUod i) -ucAo-atd-hibs   peoh--aadln                         Peonarfronlos(okaabof )R -oind byrirbe
age grep I-i yeses, to ohildren  in thlm  ge    "Pat; foe mat  Irne..  leg. rot5 p-rrn, richest 20 p-e..ent, peoreac  20 p.erret, med p.toret 40 p.eret
trIes dIt  derlord from  life  neblra; 1960, 1970 ad 1929 data,                                      of ko-shelda.
HEALTH                                                                                               POVtiRTY TARGET GROUPS
itfe tEp-ccnoo  et Bilth (nears) - un--ge ...mber of Fearo  of life rnintec                          The fo1i uia  -eclore. an  -ty appet-im-e  ---ore of P.enrt  lends,
an birth; 1)60, 1970 aed 1979data.                                                                   and mhas1d hr leeeprt-d  ithe - anid-rbl.e-oain..
Iofaet M-eralteRae(rrao ad  - Annual.  d-htb   of  nianm   -de-  one year                           Etui-atd Abmo1stp P-nrtn I.t..ine  10    erefe  -  rbean    ea 
of hega .pe    hootadlinelrI                                                                  Ab-alute p-nety icm                 .,elimte  inm   lend  beee ahih a minimal
bnAmn-   Isl Sfo ter preto    cuain-ttl   ra,ce   ua      a-enifnlpdqeede plu    menir   anPadrqsrmN-                                                                             t 
her of people  (total, urba, -od ruol   ,,th ...an..ableare.e  to safe                               io-deite..  l de.tditI...fo -q                                      -t
Ycnrspg     oldrat  tcautoatr    r  nrae   o _noneoEtd                                      ctima-d Palatine P-nety Itooma Lend  ff250  per caic) - ubee sed -a1l 
ouerssk  n  hn  ro   pcttce  beh-e,  pringm, aed otoit-y tell) eterleolepneytca   ee   tet-hird                                                              nrg   e   spt
fountain or snaedpase located  eon mare clan 109 ert~~~er  fro a. hut . ey. hoIe..  ale eihdjuetmet for higher cent of linin   It orben                    a
etstu]r eio og. ilepi o ---bhelI        ,ttuf1 rnrhrer  thel hEsbodti-ad Porulotien Bella Aben1-n  P-netyInoeLnlfem e)  - uba
V'y                                                   .d~~~~~~~~~~~~taua  .-.Prcn  ef population  fu-lam  emd reeI) abaar  "aheol-
Perily' e atrer n
oet    8 f chair reap iele ycpEloiun.    tora    ditpu...l nay loluda
theeloioad diap,eni, nith or  leh-otceeee          _,o  hmatorela                                                                 beaiced S.eial lata Iloisie
and a-ta-ateryA  sarbeeepin    r tha aae of PIe Fprien  ae                      .li-                                                 Ee-nic  nA-1ese  ard Pr-)-c-to e Op-rtre
br iOeiOlletioOu.                                                                                                  Play ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1981
Porulotno rer  hymlola - P   -uieno   danadad ho uao,ber of pailo        h-i-                                      ~y
O_f 'auholOdfo       eia   co)a   coroYlel
ooolocettuai.,rre-'rcuerl dcoocohnantrf  p--c-can
-eleood frr-laigduactno-eu., pramOra  nurse, -ndctuO...n-s-tea.



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, Constant Prices)
US$ Mln.       x                       1974-78              1979              1980
GNP at Market Prices                91280      100.0                         6.0                3.9               2.8
Gross Domestic Investment           22333       24.5                        25.4               -0.5              12.9
Gross National Saving               24798       27.2                         5.3               36.1               3.7
Current Account Balance              2627        2.9                          -                  -                 -
Exports of Goods, NFS               24758       27.1                        -0.7               17.4              15.7
Imports of Goods, NFS               20723       22.7                       22.4              -23.6               40.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added                     Labor Force-                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.      Z                  Mln.       2                    US 
Agriculture                        13920         23.9                17.0     56.0                    819        43.0
Industry                           21922         37.7                 5.2     17.0                   4216       220.0
Services                           22318         38.4                 6.7     22.0                   3331       174.0
Unallocated                            -           -                  1.4       5.0                    -            -
Total/Average                 58160        100.0                30.3    100.0                  1919        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                             Central Government
(N Mln.)      _    Z of GDP                   (N Mln.)            % of GDP
1.8,7      19801-       1979/80              1981.       1980/3      1979180
Current Receipts                     13040       31.3         28.0                 7924         23.5          20.7
Current Expenditure                  11954       24.2         11.5                 5112          7.7           6.1
Current Surplus                       1086        7.1         16.5                 2812         15.8          14.6
Capital Expenditures                  ..           ..         19.2                 6842         16.5          15.4
External Assistance (net)             ..           ..           -                  1671/4        0.3           2.3
MONEY, CREDIT, AND PRICES                1975          1976          1977           1978             1979          1980
(Million N Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                    4165          5732         7439            7873             9845         14275
Bank Credit to Public Sector (Net)       -642           551         2309            3779             3296          3577
Bank Credit to Private Sector            1798          2423         3465            4605             5249          6970
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        19.3          21.0          23.0           21.0             20.8          28.3
General Price Index (1960 = 100) 5/   289.6           352.4         423.1          492.5            550.0         604.0
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                      33.5          21.7          20.1           16.4              11.7           9.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector              ..                        419.1           63.7            -12.8           8.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector            58.4          34.8          43.0           32.9             14.0          32.2
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ Preliminary
3/ Revised Estimates.
4/ Budget.
5/ Index of Urban Consumer Prices up to 1977. National Price Index from 1978.
Not available.
April 1982



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978-1980)./
1978       1979      19801'                                      US$ Mln.    Z
(Millions US$)
Exports of Goods, NFS               11,319    17,796      24,758       Crude Oil                         15835      93.9
Imports of Goods, NFS               14,580    15,285      20,723       Cocoa Products                       723       4.3
Resource Gap (deficit   -)          -3,261      2,511       4,035      Palm Products                         21       0.1
Tin                                  20       0.1
Interest Payments (net)                246       -247         370      All Other Commodities                273       1.6
Workers' Remittances                   -          -           -
Other Factor Payments (net)           -474       -201        -876
Net Transfers                         -269       -388        -902                        Total            16872    100.0
Balance on Current Account          -3,758      1,675       2,627
Direct Foreign Investment              211        305         340      EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981
Net HLT Borrowing
Disbursements                      1,434      1,022      1,138                                            US$ Mln.
Amortization                         -24        -38        -141
Subtotal                           1,410        984         997      Public Debt, incl. undisbursed        11754
Capital Grants                         -          -           -        Non-Guaranteed Private Debt             ..
Other Capital (net)                   -151         10          81      Total outstanding & disbursed          4652
Other items n.e.i                      -69        388         478
Increase in Reserves (+)             2,357    +3,362         523       DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981-
Gross Reserves (end year)                                                                                      %
Net Reserves (end year)              2,348      5,712      10,235
Public Debt. incl. guaranteed           4.1
Fuel and Related Materials                                             Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Imports                                                              Total outstanding & disbursed
of which:  Petroleum               275        343        442
Exports
of which:  Petroleum            8,505    16,877        22,412      IBED/IDA LENDING (Dec. 31, 1981) (Millions $)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                             IBRD    IDA
1976:  N1.00 -US$1.60                                                    Outstanding & Disbursed             562.2   37.1
1977:  N1.00   US$1.55                                                   Undisbursed                         595.1    -
1978:  N1.00 - USS1.57
1979:  N100 -US$1.66                                                    Outstanding incl. Undisbursed  1,157.3   37.1
1980:  N1.00 - US$1.83
* 1981:  N1.00   US$1.56
1/ Estimated.
2/ Estimates for 1979 and 1980.
S/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
Not Available,
* As of June.
April 1982



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
(As of March 31, 1982)
Loan or                                                                     US$ Million
Credit                                                             Amount (less cancellation)
Number    Year    Borrower    Purpose                               Bank      IDA       Undisbursed
Seventeen loans and two credits fully disbursed                     500.3    35.3
929       1973    Nigeria       Education                           54.0                     30.1
1045       1974    Nigeria       Cocoa Development                   20.0                      2.1
1091       1975    Nigeria       Livestock                           21.0                      8.6
1092       1975    Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Yuntua                  29.0                      0.6
1099       1975    Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Gusau                   19.0                      0.3
1103       1975    Nigeria       Rice Development                    17.5                      5.3
1164       1975    Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Gombe                   21.0                      0.01
1183       1975    Nigeria       M.W. State Oil Palm                 29.5                     19.5
1191       1976    Nigeria       E.C. State Oil Palm                 19.0                     12.8
1192       1976    Nigeria       W. State Oil Palm                   17.0                     10.7
1454       1977    Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Lafia                   27.0                      5.7
1455       1977    Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Ayangba                 35.0                      9.6
1591       1978    Nigeria       Nuc. Est. Smallholder Oil           30.0                     19.3
1597       1978    NIDB          Industrial Development              60.0                     42.2
1667       1979    Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Lida                    23.0                     15.4
1668       1979    Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Ilorin                  27.0                     17.5
1679       1979    Nigeria       Forestry                            31.0                     22.9
1711       1979    Nigeria       Water Supply - Kaduna               92.0                     88.3
1719       1979    Nigeria       Agric. & Rural Mgmt. Inst.           9.0                      8.1
1766       1980    NEPA          Power - Lagos                      100.0                    100.0
1767       1980    Nigeria       Urban Development - Bauchi          17.8                     16.9
1838       1980    Nigeria       Agric. Dev. - Oyo-North             28.0                     28.0
1854       1980    Nigeria       Agric. Dev. - Ekiti-Akoko           32.5                     31.9
1883       1980    Nigeria       Roads                              108.0                     94.4
1981       1981    Nigeria       Agric. Dev. - Bauchi               132.0                   125.5
1982       1981    Nigeria       Agric. Dev. - Kano                 142.0                   141.3
2029       1981    Nigeria       Tech. Assistance-Agric.             47.0                     46.8
2036       1982    Nigeria       Water Supply - Anambra              67.0                     66.0
*-2065       195Z    Nigeria       Power VI                           100.0                    100.0
Total                                         1.655.6    35.3         1.069.8
Of which has been repaid                         197.3      3.0
Total Outstanding                             1,658.3    32.3
Amount sold                     16.8
Of which has been repaid        16.8              0.0
*Total now held by Bark 6 IDA                  1,659.3    32.3
Total undisbursed                                                     1,069.8
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31. 1982)
Fiscal                                             Type of            Amount in Bs$ Million
Year                                             Business            Loan   Equity   Total
1964, 1967,    Arewa Textiles Ltd.                Textile Mfg.         1.0      0.6      1.6
1970
1964            Nigeria Industrial                Dev. Fin. Co.                 1.4      1.4
Develop.ent Banrk Ltd.
1973            Funtua Cottonseed                 Veg. Oil             1.6               1.6
Crushing Ltd.                     Crushing
1973            Nigerian Aluminium                Aluninium            1.0      0.3      1.3
Extrusion Ltd.                    Processing
1974            Lifiaga Sugar                      Sugar                        0.1      0.1
Estate
1980            NTH                               Textlles             6.2      0.7      6.9
1981            Ikeja Hotel                       Tourism              7.5      2.0      9.5
Total Cross Commitments                               17.3      5.1    22.4
Less cancellations                                   1.4      0.1      1.5
Less sold and repaid                                 2.4      1.5     3.9
Total Comniitmcnt now held by IFC                     13.5      3.5    17.0
Ur.disbursed                                           6.5      2.0      8.5
* Prior ;c e-chsante rate adjuesLments
A* Not yet sl6ncd



-30 -                            ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of April 30, 1982)
Loan No. 929-UNI    Third Education Project:  US$54.0 million Loan of
August 16, 1973; Effective Date: January 14, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Since appraisal, project costs have increased fourfold. In FY79,
the scope of the project was reduced and the closing date was extended.
Project management is weak and project implementation at a practical stand-
still. A substantial portion of the loan proceeds will be cancelled as of
December 31, 1982.
Loan No. 1045-UNI   Second Cocoa Project:  US$20 million Loan of
October 11, 1974; Effective Date: October 15, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project's planting targets have been fully achieved by all
four participating states. Loan recovery performance has, however, surfaced
as a major problem. A tight "action program" has been initiated, and updating
and reconciliation of farmer loan records has been completed. A project
completion report has been prepared, although the completion of a few com-
ponents in Bendel State has required the recent extension of the closing date
to March 31, 1983.
Loan No. 1091-UNI   Livestock Development Project:  US$21.0 million Loan
of March 20, 1975; Effective Date: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1983
Project implementation has improved. The project is now under
good management which has overcome most of the initial problems. Supporting
services are better organized, and credit is now being effectively channeled
through NACB. The closing date was extended by two years to allow production
investments to be completed.
Loan No. 1092-UNI   Funtua Agricultural Development Project:  US$29.0 million
Loan of March 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 5, 1976,
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Project implementation is complete with satisfactory farmer response
and the full support of both Federal and State Governments. Demand for inputs
is consistently above appraisal estimates. The federally controlled Agricul-
tural Projects Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit financed under this
loan is fully operational. A project completion report has been prepared.
An expanded second stage project to cover the remainder of Kaduna State has
been appraised.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-31 -                            ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Loan No. 1099-UNI   Gusau Agricultural Development Project:  US$19.0 million
Loan of April 4, 1975; Effective Date:  January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project has been completed with satisfactory support from
both Federal and State Governments. Farmer response has been good, and
appraisal objectives have been met and in some cases exceeded. A project
completion report has been prepared. It is proposed that a second phase
project cover the whole of Sokoto State.
Loan No. 1103-UNI   Rice Project:  US$17.5 million Loan of April 25,
1974; Effective Date:  January 10, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31,1982
Project implementation made a slow start due to deficiencies in
counterpart funding and staffing limitations.  The Bank has withdrawn from
the project component located in Cross River State because of acute problems
of cost overruns and inadequate physical progress. Physical project progress
is better in Anambra State and Imo State but development has been impaired by
insufficient counterpart funding. This problem has now been resolved, and
steps are being taken to reallocate the balance of loan funds held over
from the Cross River State component to the components in Anambra and Imo
States.
Loan No. 1164-UNI   Gombe Agricultural Development Project:  US$21.0 million
Loan of September 29, 1975; Effective Date: December 29,
1976; Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project has been implemented satisfactorily with full support
from both Federal and State Governments and is virtually complete. A project
completion report has been prepared. The whole of Bauchi State is to be
served by a second-stage project supported by the Bank (Loan 1981-UNI).
Loan No. 1183-UNI   Mid-Western (Bendel) State Oil Palm Project:  US$29.5
million Loan of December 31, 1975; Effective Date:
October 17, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Appraisal targets for the nucleus estate and smallholder components
have not been met due to delays in land acquisition, and the project has been
facing serious financial and managerial problems. Persistent difficulties
forced the Bank to suspend disbursements under the nucleus estate part of the
Loan as of July 13, 1981. In view of continued progress under the smallholder
component and with the appointment of managing agents for the estate company
and the promise of additional counterpart funding from Bendel State, the
Bank lifted suspension on November 1, 1981. However, after a project review
mission to Bendel State in February/March 1982 reported continued problems,
particularly concerning project funding, the Bank suspended all disbursements
under the Loan as of May 15, 1982.



- 32 -                           ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Loan No. 1191-UNI   East Central (Imo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$19.0
million Loan of February 12, 1976; Effective Date:
April 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the creation of
new states and problems with staffing. Even though appraisal planting targets
have not been met and the construction of palm oil mills has been delayed, the
project has the best potential for smallholder oil palm development, and
planting rates are now at an acceptable level. The palm oil mill is currently
being designed. The project has recently encountered serious problems due to
the insufficiency of counterpart funding.
Loan No. 1192-UNI   Western (Ondo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$17.0
million Loan of September 22, 1976; Effective Date:
February 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The smallholder component continues to face financial difficulties,
and final targets may not be achieved. For the nucleus estate component, land
acquisition, management, and funding problems have delayed progress. Plantings
are in poor condition and processing facilities are inadequate. Because of the
increasingly serious nature of these problems, the Bank suspended disbursements
under the Loan as of February 28, 1981. As the result of corrective action
taken by Ondo State, the Bank lifted the suspension on November 1, 1981. How-
ever, after a project review mission to Ondo State in February/March 1982
reported continued problems, particularly concerning project funding, the Bank
again suspended disbursements under the Loan as of May 15, 1982.
Loan No. 1454-UNI   Lafia Agricultural Development Project:  US$27.0
million Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date:
March 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although the provision of adequate funding on time continues to be
problematic, overall project progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1455-UNI   Ayangba Agricultural Development Project:  US$35.0
million Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date:
March 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project progress has recently stagnated because of local funding
and staff constraints. Overall, however, the project has already met most of
its physical targets set at appraisal, and can be considered successful.
Loan No. 1591-UNI   Rivers State Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm
Project: US$30.0 million Loan of July 24, 1978;
Effective Date: July 10, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Loan effectiveness was delayed because of problems regarding
completion of the State Loan Agreement, a Management Agreement, and Federal
and State Legal Opinions. Physical progress is satisfactory, but funding
problems persist after some improvement in late-1980. The smallholder
component faces some managerial difficulties.



- 33 -                          ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Loan No. 1597-UNI   Nigerian Industrial Development Bank, Ltd.:  US$60
million Loan of June 15, 1978; Effective Date:
October 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
About 80 percent of the loan has been committed and about 25 percent
disbursed. Both are less than expected at the time of appraisal owing to
the investment climate in 1978/79 which was affected very much by the un-
certainties surrounding the change in government in late-1979. The invest-
ment climate has improved considerably, however, and it is expected that the
loan will be fully committed within a few months.
Loan No. 1667-UNI   Bida Agricultural Development Project:  US$23 million
Loan of September 17, 1979; Effective Date: April 25,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is progressing very well.
Loan No. 1668-UNI   Ilorin Agricultural Development Project:  US$27 million
Loan of September 17, 1979; Effective Date: April 25,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Project progress was impaired at first by delays in the recruitment
of intermediate-level project staff. These problems have now been substan-
tially resolved and project implementation, although not yet fully satisfac-
tory, is improving.
Loan No. 1679-UNI   Forestry Plantation Project:  US$31 million Loan of
October 29, 1979; Effective Date: June 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is progressing satisfactorily, despite occasional
problems in securing state funding.
Loan No. 1711-UNI   Kaduna Water Supply Project:  US$92 million Loan
of July 16, 1979; Effective Date: July 22, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is satisfactory, but affected by serious
delays in the award of contracts. The State Government approved a tariff
increase in April 1981, but the protracted approval process had made the
increase inadequate. The Kaduna State Water Board is now pursuing a further
increase.
Loan No. 1719-UNI   Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
Project: US$9 million Loan of July 16, 1979; Effective
Date: March 30, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Management consultants are in the field, and project implementation
is progressing satisfactorily.



- 34 -                           ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Loan No. 1766-UNI   Lagos Power Distribution Project:  US$100 million
Loan of February 19, 1980; Effective Date: July 22,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is now two years behind schedule, and the total project
cost is expected to increase from US$222 million to US$255 million based on a
projected inflation rate of 7.5 percent per annum.  The delay has been caused
mainly by the time taken by Government to award contracts.
Loan No. 1767-UNI   Urban Development Project (Bauchi State):  US$17.8 million
Loan of February 19, 1980; Effective Date:  August 12, 1980-
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Project progress has been impaired by management and staffing pro-
blems. As a result of efforts by the Bauchi State authorities to resolve
these problems, the situation has now improved substantially. Civil works
have begun, and an accelerated implementation schedule has been introduced
that will permit the project to be completed within the time span envisaged
at appraisal. Technical assistance to the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria
has already resulted in an improved planning and project implementation
capability.
Loan No. 1838-UNI   Oyo-North Agricultural Development Project:  US$28.0
million Loan of August 25, 1980; Effective Date:
March 31, 1982; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
After a more than one year delay in project implementation because
of staff recruitment problems, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1854-UNI   Ekiti-Akoko Agricultural Development Project:  US$32.5
million Loan of December 15, 1980; Effective Date: November
20, 1981; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
The project is proceeding satisfactorily in its initial stages.
Loan No. 1883-UNI   Sixth Highway Project:  US$108 million Loan of August
25, 1980; Effective Date: December 11, 1980; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Contracts for the road strengthening works, the feasibility study
of the Calabar-Ikom road, and the training of maintenance technicians have
been awarded, and the project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1981-UNI   Bauchi State Agricultural Development Project:  US$132
million Loan of September 2, 1981; Effective Date:
December 23, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Although the project is currently experiencing local funding prob-
lems, it is proceeding well in its initial stages.



- 35 -                           ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Loan No. 1982-UNI   Kano Agricultural Development Project:  $142 million Loan
of September 2, 1981; Effective Date:  December 29, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily in its initial stages.
Loan No. 2029-UNI   Agricultural Technical Assistance Project:  US$47 million
Loan of September 2, 1981; Effective Date; January 21, 1982
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily in its initial stages.
Loan No. 2036-UNI   Anambra Water Supply and Sanitation Project:  US$67 million
Loan of November 13, 1981; EJffective Date: March 19, 1982;
Closing Date: September 30, 1987.
Despite a six month delay in its start-up operations, the project is
proceeding satisfactorily in its initial stages.
Loan No. 2085-UNI   Sixth Power Project:  US$100 million; Loan
not yet signed; Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Loan signing is scheduled for June 23, 1982.



- 36 -                                ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Sokoto Agricultural Development Project
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 2 years
(b) The agency which has prepared the project: Gusau Agricultural
Development Project's planning unit, assisted by consultants.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: October 1978
(d) Date of first Bank mission to consider the project: October 1979
(e) Date of departure of the appraisal mission: September 27, 1980
(f) Date of completion of negotiations: June 22, 1981
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: November 1, 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Bank's Agricultural Projects Management Unit for West Africa would
assist in engaging key internationally recruited staff to help execute
the project.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Federal Government
and the Sokoto State Government (Condition of Effectiveness;
para. 62);
(b) Gazetting establishment of Sokoto Agricultural and Rural Development
Policy Council, Sokoto Agricultural Development Project Executive
Committee, and Sokoto Agricultural Program Management Unit (SAPMU)
in a form and with powers and responsibilities acceptable to the
Bank (Condition of Effectiveness; para. 51);
(c) Establishing the Sokoto Agricultural Service Company (SASCO)
including the payment of NI million in equity each by the
Sokoto State Government and the Sokoto Cooperative Federa-
tion (SCF) (Condition of Effectiveness; para. 54);
(d)  Establishment of a project recruiting agency for the supply of
staff for SAPMU (Condition of Effectiveness; para. 58);



- 37 -                                ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) Furnishing a draft management contract with consultancy firm for
supply of staff for SASCO (Condition of Effectiveness; para. 58);
(f)  Opening of commercial bank account for SAPMU with initial deposits
of N3 million each by Federal and Sokoto State Governments (Condi-
tion of Effectiveness; para.63);
(g) Sokoto State Government guarantee overdraft on commercial bank
account up to equivalent of three months project expenditure require-
ments (Condition of Effectiveness; para.63);
(h) Drafting of 1982 Action Plan by Sokoto State Government, detailing
specific investments and project activities proposed for the first
project year (Condition of Effectiveness; para. 53);
(i) Annual review by Sokoto State Government with SAPMU and local
government councils of arrangements for the maintenance of roads and
water supply facilities provided under the project and for requisite
staff training and funding (para. 46);
(j) Sokoto State Government ensure the availability of adequate funds to
SCF (para. 55);
(k)  Payment by Sokoto State Government of NO.5 million towards the
working capital of cooperative unions and primary societies (para.
55);
(1) Establishing a Fadama Development Fund with an initial deposit of
NO.9 million (para. 56);
(m)  Not later than December 31, 1984 recommendation by Sokoto State
Government for post-project activities and organization (para.
60);
(n) Deduction by Federal Government of necessary state contributions
from federal statutory allocations to Sokoto State should Sokoto
State fail to provide adequate and timely financing (para. 63);
(o) Annual review by Sokoto State Government with SASCO and Bank of
SASCO's cost recovery practices (para. 64); and
(p) Federal Government supply adequate and timely amounts of fertilizer
to Sokoto State for project (para. 65).






I S R D 15065 Ri
w  On mOn  ~~~~~~~~~.                                     - ~~~~~NNIGERI A
-  >  to5    Ned    0c~       lB RDAssisted  Agricultural Projects
Completed and Appraised
Sea  >0             ~~~Agricultural Development `roects.
COMPLETED:
PFota I Loan 1092- UN I
N    neonotnoenon                                                                                     ..                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~orGus- I Loon ~099- UNII
GombeLooni1i64-UNII
K  A  N                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING
B  0  R   N  0                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Late (Lean1454-UNiI
0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                AOAyangba lLnanl455-UNiI
P.fI k                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAISUGURI                    E'da I Leon 1667 - UNiinnlLa16-NI)
ivoek                                                                                                                                            J                    Oto North Loan 1535-UNiI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.Noth(..  13-UI
/                  ~~~~~~Ekiti Aknka lL.n1n54-UNiI
K A D  N A                                                                                                              APPRA SED:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A RA Saac tt
SKoto. State
BAUC                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNDER PREPARATION:
Afi:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p  ~~~-I.Ans-bra State
I   ~~~~~~~    ~~~~o ~~~~~~                         E~~Bnde  Nanthr
EjeaState
N                 ~~~~~Lagos State
P  4,  T  A   J  4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  y ~~~~Trainiog Pnojects:
Agtiooltoral end Renal
'EDERAI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aeectTtern.rng leeti.tat
CAPITAL                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Loan 171 -UNI)
M7   A               ~~~~Tree Crop Projcts-
K:AA                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~EX1STING
i                         C.-~~~~] Don  I (Loon 764 -U NII and
I         MAKU ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOn de OIl Palm ,  lL..anlt92 -U NI I
r  0  0                      R-                                                                                                                                           B..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~adel C OlPalm, Loon 1183- UNI
AIIIII                                                                     Ai       A                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~no Oil Pale, Loan 1191 -UNII
Roars State Oil Palm, ILoan 1525 -oN 
N                                               n,6.0.um                                                                                                        Fo...stny [oar 1679 -UN 
APPRAISED
Bedqgnl                                                            Ct/Go           I                                                                          ononnaooonrioootonOOenrioenr-ItemOA  M  atCeoennIII
Lean      A0 0 5                          . Noi                                            ~     Sasi                                                                     ionne                         e            neis9      7     2      C..s River State Estate Oil Paln,l
:% w 77"   d;1ae5L  nn   nnrnnaan pIrrigation  Prolect
L                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXSST ING0
JenaneL  N ~~~~       ~ ~                                   N  9tORtit#n   I. r~~~~~tPA   anoener ~~~~           Ri-elL-an103-UNII
rp. 4. oveeonnearaooeOeaonnoseaoross  oij ~~~~  -rr                                  Livestock Developmeat Project:
s    ~ ~      TiwRAiP 0(Loan 1091 -UNI)
04./n  -                                     ioron~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1fAe ~~~~~EXISTING
-~~~  onne  I  KoLAE~~~~~~~~~~~~n      at,  oPen  ~~~~~~~~~~~   ~~, n ~~~0                                                      Nationl Linentock Pnedontrnn C.. Roe-nes
V:~~E~r-6i..   o                                                                                    op    J55      -t iv  ~    n~       -~          Rd       Western Li-e1tok Co Ron-hen
-                     W'           ' ~~~~~~~~p"jtZ~~~~~AnL ~~~Nenth-Eanten Co Ranohen
w  w 60 m  w    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ OO                                               A        Animal / Pa-tne -netigat on Canneno
a.  Sigh!   of    Brlnr:io                         srnv                                                 Onoerin Coon, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~   ~~           -    Oraeing Renames - Polan- Oroopr Ea-Fuvohenr.p Rch.






IBRD 15424R
7,                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~March 198l
Birrri Koni                  ,N  I G  E R I A
' I                                                                           ,                                            ~t,._f_leJq -@;7- ,? SOKOTO AGRICULTURAL
IN    R T H E R N                                                                                                      DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CG                               -  S I L A M  E  J                                                                                    PROPOSED
Ged-      ,                                         (                                                                     Piogiom Monoemer Uit HeodM.orre.s
* Zonol H-eq-rie-
SOKOT                                                                          0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O Ag,o S-ro. Ce-re-
Z    0   N          \                ink _        \                      -Feeder Rdt
I  ~~~~~   S ~~~~~    TO ~~~~EXISTINGO
/  / )  2 Xsr . -   1   }  9    /   K  i<.                            d /2675 r       *          /                    Gusou Agrlsultulul D vHll l lT 1.r F.l let (Lc rgr,iilirel LAIr  -itF1i.t s -r CO-i 511
/ A > +<N G A                                                 Ta"rdf  '\)                             M A L A T A                    ROADS
m I               M          7         AURA                       -    Sngle  riLae Pored
dA             N                                               A I Seoo G-  e
BARAI 'RI                            ~~~~~~~~~~-------S R..-  G..
A-            c   E       -T    L~ON                      ~noIb                                                               i
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n /'..
L.-<    ~~~NAMO2d-ag
G A ~ ~      ~             ~             ~             ~            ~            ~           / 
UFFFR        S            1P                    +)   V<           ,O                                 .0      4 /             B  KIIAIFFR                                BONAI S iJn_                  r    V           
G Of /AF } 5'nj   =e~                                                =i                                                                                          -   Ed 30100 OdiN OSG  \ B
EGL GUII\IE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A NS KEr
1'Sz  oY'~~~~~~~~~~~~ NIGERIA  <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~                                                        -   00005 OniOn Rn GOOn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
ns<(                                                                                                                                  'K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-~~  -~~                                                                                                                      *   PROPOSeD ZOErO trtAEiOUORrEOt      N~~~~~ow.
B Z                                                                                                                                                    -(G UnSS \0~
G  ASt RR   N       ~        r                                        .   000    rrrOnOrn,rroooor KA UN               SSrTATEOAiE 
EQ. GUINEA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                     A~5IN-N  ~s



