UUM f      LOAN NUMBER 2185 UNI
Project Agreement
(Sokoto Agricultural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOKOTO STATE OF NIGERIA
Dated                               ,198


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2185 UNI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 198/, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  CONS         AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and SOKOTO STATE OF NIGERIA (hereinafter called
Sokoto State).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Federal Republic of Nigeria (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equ-ivalent
to one hundred forty-seven million dollars ($147,000,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that Sokoto State agrees to undertake such obliga-
tions toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
by the Borrower and Sokoto State, the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
Sokoto State on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS Sokoto State, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to under-
take the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Sokoto State shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and shall


﻿-2-
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Sokoto State shall establish and thereafter maintain
a Sokoto Agricultural and Rural Development Policy Council
(SARDPC) in a form and with membership, functions and respon-
nAbilities satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower. Further
provisions relating to SARDPC are set out in Part A of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
(c) Sokoto State shall establish and thereafter maintain a
Sokoto State Agricultural Development Project Executive Committee
(SADPEC) in a form and with membership, functions and responsibi-
lities satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower. Further provi-
sions relating to SADPEC are set out in Part B of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
(d) Sokoto State shall: (i) establish and thereafter main-
tain a Sokoto Agricultural Program Management Unit (SAPMU) in a
form and with membership, functions and responsibilities satis-
factory to the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) transfer to SAPMU
responsibility for all agricultural extension work in the State;
and (iii) second to SAPMU all existing agricultural staff of the
local governments, and the Ministry of Rural Development and
Cooperatives and staff of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources selected by that Ministry and SAPMU. Further provisions
relating to SAPMU are set out in Part C of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
(e) Sokoto State shall cause to be established for each zone
a Zonal Agricultural Development Advisory Committee (ZADAC) in a
form and with membership, functions and responsibilities satis-
factory to the Bank and the Borrower. Further provisions relating
to ZADAC are set out in Part D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(f) Sokoto State shall publish in its official gazette a
notification of the establishment of SARDPC and SADPEC which
shall set out their membership, functions and responsibilities.
Section 2.02. Sokoto State shall establish under the Bor-
rower's Companies Act, 1968 and thereafter maintain a Sokoto State
Agricultural Service Company Limited (SASCO) with membership,
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank and the
Borrower. Further provisions relating to SASCO are set out in Part
E of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. (a) Without any limitation or restriction on
the obligations of Sokoto State under Section 2.01 (a) above,
Sokoto State:
(i) shall open at a commercial bank and thereafter
maintain with adequate funds two separate bank
accounts to be used by SAPMU and SASCO exclusively
for payments for goods and services required for
the Project, and shall pay an initial deposit
of three million Naira (N 3,000,000) into the
bank account opened for SAPMU;
(ii) shall authorize SAPMU to establish overdraft
facilities covering at least three months of
SAPMU's expenditures up to five million Naira
(N 5,000,000) and shall fully guarantee payment
obligations of SAPMU in respect of the said over-
draft facilities;
(iii) shall make adequate budgetary provisions for, and
pay into SAPMU's commercial bank account at least
three months in advance, quarterly contributions
for the Project based on SAPMU's approved annual
budget, the said contributions being estimated
by Sokoto State and the Bank to amount over the
project period to eighty-five million four hundred
thousand Naira (N 85,400,000) exclusive of
subsidies on farm inputs;
(iv) shall make adequate budgetary provisions for,
and pay into SASCO's commercial bank account,
cash equity amounting to two million Naira
(N 2,000,000) at the least of which one million
Naira (N 1,000,000) shall be paid by the Effective
Date;
(v) shall continue to maintain in addition to the
financial contributions required under Section 2.03
(a) (iii) hereof its current level of expenditure
in the State which Sokoto State and the Bank
estimate to be about four million Naira annually
in January 1981 terms;
(vi) shall make adequate provision for SCF to meet
the credit needs of farmers participating in the
Project; and


﻿-4-
(vii) shall establish a Fadama Development Fund with
an initial deposit of nine hundred thousand Naira
(N 900,000) covering the first year's grant
disbursements to farmers.
(b) Sokoto State shall: (i) include its share of the costs
of the Project in its 1981/85 Five Year Development Plan; (ii)
cause SAPMU to prepare and send to the Bank and the Borrower by
September 30 of each year, until completion of the Project, an
action plan detailing investments and Project activities proposed
for the fiscal year immediately following and including that
year's budget, the annual report for SAPMU's operations during the
fiscal year immediately preceding, and details of the arrangements
made for training and for road and water supply maintenance under
the Project including, where appropriate, information as to the
related funding arrangements made by Sokoto State and by the local
governments concerned.
(c) Sokoto State shall cause SAPMU to furnish to the Federal
Ministry of Agriculture and the Bank the annual budget proposed
for the Project as approved by SARDPC not later than four months
immediately before the commencement of the fiscal year to which it
relates, and shall inform the Bank of its approval before the
commencement of the fiscal year.
Section 2.04. (a) Sokoto State shall under arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower establish a recruiting
agency to supply senior technical, financial, engineering and
commercial staff for SAPMU. The qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment of said staff shall be satis-
factory to the Bank and the Borrower.
(b) Sokoto State shall under an agreement satisfactory to
the Bank and the Borrower employ a management agency acceptable to
the Bank and the Borrower for the management and suppy of staff to
SASCO.
Section 2.05. (a) In order to carry out Part D of the Pro-
ject, Sokoto State shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank and the Borrower.
(b) Sokoto State shall cause SAPMU to prepare, and send to
the Bank and the Borrower for their review, the detailed terms of
reference of the consultants to be employed under paragraph (a)
above.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06, (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) Sokoto State shall until completion of the Project
provide SASCO, in advance, not later than September 1 of each year
with the State's equity contributions to SASCO's working capital
amounting to not less than two million Naira (N 2,000,000)
during the first two years of the Project.
(c) Sokoto State shall cause the Sokoto Cooperative Federa-
tion to provide SASCO at the time of its establishment with an
equity contribution of one million Naira (N 1,000,000).
(d) Sokoto State shall review and agree with the Bank, the
Borrower and SASCO annually, SASCO's cost recovery policies and
practices, to ensure that such policies and practices enable the
cost of any input or service to be fully recovered.
Section 2.07. (a) Sokoto State undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by Sokoto State to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Sokoto State
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.08. Sokoto State shall provide as a grant an
aggregate amount of five hundred thousand Naira (N 500,000)
to the working capital of cooperative and primary unions parti-
cipating in credit and marketing operations under the Project in
order to ensure for such cooperatives and unions an adequate
capital base enabling them to participate in the operations.
Section 2.09. (a) Sokoto State shall cause SAPMU to furnish
to the Bank and the Borrower, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construc-
tion and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material


﻿-6-
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank and the Borrower shall reasonably request.
(b) Sokoto State shall: (i) cause SAPMU and each of the
other Project Agencies, but with respect only to such agency's
participation in the Project, to maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Proje-t
(including the cost and the benefits to be derived therefrom), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) cause SAPMU and each of the other
Project Agencies to furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived therefrom, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by Sokoto State of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in
any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Sokoto
State and the Bank, Sotoko State shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by Sokoto State and the Bank of
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) Sokoto State shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, sites, works, properties, equipment, records
and documents relevant to the Project.
Section 2.10. Sokoto State shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Sokoto State shall not take or concur


﻿-7-
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrog-
ating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.11. (a) Sokoto State shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Sokoto State shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by Sokoto State of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.12. Sokoto State agrees (i) that the Borrower shall
deduct from the amount standing to the credit of Sokoto State in
the Federation Account, Sokoto State's quarterly contributions to
SAPMU (in the amounts provided for in SAPMU's approved annual
budget and to the extent such amounts are outstanding) in the
event that Sokoto State fails to provide such contributions in
full and within the quarter; and (ii) that the Borrower shall pay
any such deductions directly into the commercial bank account
opened for SAPMU under the Project. For the purposes of this
Section, the term "Federation Account" shall mean the special
account maintained by the Federation into which revenues are paid
and from which amounts standing to the credit of the account are
distributed among the Federal and State Governments and the local
government councils of the States.
Section 2.13. Sokoto State shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the carrying out of the Project including not less
than 100 ha of land required for the establishment in the Western
Zone of a new seed multiplication farm under Part A (4) of the
Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
Section 2.14. (a) Sokoto State shall, no later than Jan-
uary 1, 1985, furnish the Bank and the Borrower for their review
with details of proposals prepared by SAMPU for the continuation


﻿-8 -
and organization of the Project after its completion including
proposals for training of additional staff and managers and
information as to the resulting financial and budgetary implica-
tions.
(b) Sokoto State shall prepare by December 31, 1984,
detailed plans for the long-term maintenance of feeder roads and
rural water supplies in the Project Area, including the division
of responsibility between Sokoto State and the local governments
for such maintenance.
Section 2.15. Sokoto State shall each year review with
SAMPU and the local governments arrangements for the maintenance
of the roads and water supply facilities and the carrying out of
the staff training programs included in the Project and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds and facilities required to
carry out such arrangements.
Section 2.16. Sokoto State shall cause the roads included in
the Project to be adequately maintained and all necessary repairs
thereof to be made.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Sokoto State shall cause the Project Agencies
to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices their respec-
tive operations and financial condition.
Section 3.02. Sokoto State shall cause each of the Project
Agencies: (i) to have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) to furnish to the Bank
as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a
statement in such report as to whether the proceeds of the Loan
made available to the Project Agency had been used for their
intended purpose; and (iii) to furnish to the Bank such other


﻿-9-
information concerning its accounts and financial statements and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of Sokoto State thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify Sokoto State thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancel-
lation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement
between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party
shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice
or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Sokoto State:                      Telex:
Permanent Secretary                    73109 VERSOK NG
Ministry of Rural Development
and Cooperatives
P.M.B. 2336
Sokoto
Sokoto State of Nigeria
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Sokoto State may be taken or executed
by the Commissioner, Ministry of Rural Development and Coopera-
tives or such other person or persons as the said Commissioner
shall designate in writing, and Sokoto State shall furnish
to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names and de-
livered in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOKOTO STATE OF NIGERIA
V Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" dated March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, Sokoto State shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice; in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. Sokoto State shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the eval:ation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 12 -
Nigeria may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Nigeria if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Nigeria equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other. and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 13 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $60,000 or more but
less than $200,000 and works estimated to cost the equivalent of
less than $2,000,000 shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with local procurement procedures after competitive
bidding based on local advertising.
2.   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $60,000
shall be purchased through direct competitive shopping.
3.   Items to be procured shall be bulked, where possible, to
permit the optimum use of competitive bidding.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more and all contracts for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Sokoto State shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Sokoto
State shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform Sokoto State and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 14 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Sokoto State shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform Sokoto State and state the
reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract,
or issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases
of extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract
by more than 10% of the original price, Sokoto State shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determined
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform Sokoto State and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Part A:   Sokoto State Agricultural and Rural Development
Policy Council (SARDPC)
(1) SARDPC shall consist of the following members:
(a) Sokoto State Governor or Deputy Governor (Chairman);
(b) Commissioners of Ministries of Rural Development and
Cooperatives, Agriculture and Natural Resources and
Local Government and Economic Planning;
(c) Director of Budget;
(d) the Political and Economic Advisor to the Governor;
(e) Chairman, Sokoto State Green Revolution Committee;
(f) General Managers of SRRBDA and SASCO;
(g) Program Manager, SAPMU; and
(h) Chairman of SADPEC.
(2) SARDPC shall be responsible for the coordination and defini-
tion of rural development policy and for overseeing Project
execution.
Part B:   Sokoto State Agricultural Development Project
Executive Committee (SADPEC)
(1) SADPEC shall consist of the following members:
(a) a chairman to be appointed by the Governor;
(b) Permanent Secretaries of the Ministries of Rural Devel-
opment and Cooperatives, Agriculture, Economic Planning,
Finance and Local Government;
(c) Program Manager, SAPMU;


﻿- 16 -
(d) Managing Director, SASCO;
(e) A representative of the Federal Department of Rural
Development; and
(f) Co-opted members: four zonal managers, Representatives
of Ministries of Works and Budget Directorate.
(2) SADPEC shall be responsible for: (i) determining policy
in respect of Project execution; (ii) coordinating relevant
activities between ministries (state and federal); (iii)
liaising with parastatal and federal bodies; (iv) formulating
and approving project training policies and overseeing
training programs; (v) approval of contracts estimated to
cost N 100,000 or more; and (vi) appointment of senior
Project staff.
(3) SADPEC shall have a technical sub-cimmittee on rural infra-
structure and agricultural develorment (RIAD). The Chairman
of this sub-committee shall be the Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperatives.
(4) RIAD shall monitor and coordinate infrastructural activities
of the Project including project water supply and road
training programs and market place improvements. It shall
also monitor and coordinate applied research, seed multi-
plication, extension training and other project-wide agri-
cultural matters.
Part C:   Sokoto Agricultural Program Management Unit (SAPMU)
(1) SAPMU shall form the apex of operational management and shall
consist of the Program Manager's Office including key finan-
cial, administrative and training divisions.
(2) SAPMU shall have seconded to it during the Project period
staff of the existing agricultural services division of the
Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperatives, selected
staff of Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources and
all existing local government extension staff.
(3) The Ministry of Rural Development and Cooperatives shall have
ministerial responsibility for SAPMU.
(4) SAPMU shall provide centralized support services in the
fields of training, civil engineering, water supplies,


﻿- 17 -
applied research, seed multiplication, land use planning,
fadama development and monitoring and evaluation for the
following four zones into which its operations shall be
organized:
Eastern Zone                - Gusau, Chaffe, Maradum,
Zurmi, Anka, Talata
Mafara, Kaura Namoda
(headquarter: Gusau)
Northern Zone               - Tangaza, Gada, Rabah,
Kware, Sabon Birni,
Silame, Gwadabawa, Isa,
Wurno, Sokoto, (head-
quarter: Wurno)
Western Zone                - Koko/Besse, Arewa-Dandi,
Argungu, Birni, Kebbi,
Bunza, Bagudo, Yauri,
Jega (headquarter:
Bunza)
Central Zone                - Sakaba/Wasagu, Dange,
Tambuwal, Bodinga,
Yabo, Gummi, Zuru
(headquarter: Gummi).
(5) SAPMU shall have four zonal project managers reporting to
the Program Manager, each with responsibility for carrying
out those components of the Project which relate to the zone
under his charge. Each zonal project manager's duties shall
include:
(a) zonal extension activities;
(b) training and infrastructure development; and
(c) preparation of annual zonal work program and budget in
consultation with the Zonal Agricultural Development
Advisory Committee (ZADAC) for approval by SAPMU.
(6) SAPMU shall prepare annual budgets for approval by SARDPC.
The approved annual budgets shall provide the guidelines for
the preparation of more detailed quarterly cash flows for
approval by SADPEC. The approved quarterly cash flows shall
form the operational basis for making budgetary allocations
for the Project.


﻿- 18 -
(7) SAPMU shall be responsible for approval of contracts esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of less than N 100,000.
Part D:   Zonal Agricultural Development Advisory Committee
(ZADAC)
(1) Each ZADAC shall consist of the following members:
(a) chairman and/or secretaries of local governments
included in the zone;
(b) a representative of each of the traditional councils
in the zone;
(c) the zonal project manager;
(d) the zonal chief accountant; and
(e) zonal sales manager of SASCO.
(2) Each ZADAC's duties shall include:
(a) advising on the annual zonal development program and
budget;
(b) advising project management on the siting of roads, farm
service centers and other civil works and on establish-
ment of guidelines for land allocation (where necessary)
and payment of land compensation by local governments.
Part E:   Sokoto Agricultural Service Company Limited (SASCO)
(1) SASCO's authorized share capital shall be N 25 million of
which N 2 million shall be initially paid up. The major
shareholders of SASCO shall be Sokoto State and Sokoto
Cooperative Federation.
(2) SASCO's functions shall include: (i) the efficient and
timely procurement of farm inputs required for the Project;
(ii) the distribution of essential farm inputs and provision
of other essential support services to farmers throughout
Sokoto State; and (iii) facilitating marketing of Project
agricultural products by entering, whenever necessary, into
bulk grain contracts with major buyers.


﻿- 19 -
(3) SASCO's Board of Directors shall initially consist of the
following:
(a) Commissioner for Finance (Chairman);
(b) Permanent Secretaries of the Ministries of Rural Deve-
lopment and Cooperatives, Agriculture and Natural
Resources, Finance and Economic Planning;
(c) Program Manager, SAPMU;
(d) Chairman of the Sokoto Cooperative Federation;
(e) a representative of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture;
(f) the Managing Director of SASCO; and
(g) Chairman of SADPEC.
(4) The day to day operations of SASCO shall be entrusted to
SASCO's Managing Directzr. SASCO shall have three main
operational divisions, nanely Finance and Administration,
Operations and Internal Audit.
(5) SASCO shall distribute and sell farm inputs on a zonal basis
and shall organize retailing through assisting agro-service
centers, the farm service centers included in the Project and
fertilizer stores of the Ministry of Rural Development and
Cooperatives. SASCO shall select suitable cooperatives
to retail farm inputs on a trial basis.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this.,        day of        198   .
FOR SECRETARY


