FFRCIAL          LOAN NUMBER 2185 UNI
DOCU ME NTS
Loan Agreement
(Sokoto Agricultural Development Project)
between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
De,
Dated                             ,199d


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2185 UNI
AN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 198/, between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF     GERIA (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Sokoto State of
Nigeria (hereinafter called Sokoto State) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to Sokoto State the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter
provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Sokoto
State;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement acrpt all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable :o Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1961, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (the
said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and Sokoto State of even date herewith, as the same may be amended


﻿from time to time, and the term includes all schedules and all
agreements supplemental thereto;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into by the Borrower and Sokoto State pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and the term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) "SARDPC" means the Sokoto State Agricultural and Rural
Development Policy Council referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of the
Project Agreement;
(d) "SADPEC" means the Sokoto Agricultural Development
Project Executive Committee referred to in Section 2.01 (c)
of the Project Agreement;
(e) "SAPMU" means the Sokoto Agricultural Program Management
Unit referred to in Section 2.01 (d) of the Project Agreement;
(f) "ZADAC" means a Zonal Agricultural Development Advisory
Committee referred to in Section 2.01 (e) of the Project Agree-
ment;
(g) "SASCO" means the Sokoto Agricultural Service Company
Limited referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement;
(h) "SCF" means the Sokoto Cooperative Federation;
(i) "Project Area" means an area of about 102,500 km2
lying within the areas of authority of the local governments
covering the zones listed in Part C of Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement;
(j) "zone" means the Eastern, Northern, Western or Central
Zone as described in Part C of Schedule 2 to the Project Agree-
ment;
(k) "Project Agencies" means SAPMU and SASCO; and
(1) "Naira" or "N" means the currency of the Borrower.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in this Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various cuirencies equivalent to one hundred
forty-seven million dollars ($147,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Bank is hereby authorized on receipt of withdrawal
applications to pay amounts to be reimbursed in respect of expen-
ditures made by SAPMU under the Project through the Central Bank
of Nigeria directly into the bank account to be opened for SAPMU
under the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance wi,n the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of
Finance, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Arti-
cle V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under this Loan Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall within the limits of its constitutional powers ensure
that Sokoto State performs in accordance with the provisions of
the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the
obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Sokoto State
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
Sokoto State under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
by the Borrower and Sokoto State, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank including repayment of
principal in 20 years, an annual interest rate which shall not be
less than the rate specified in Section 2.06 hereof and a grace
period of 5 years.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation or restriction upon the
Borrower's obligations under Section 3.01 (a) above, the Borrower
shall make adequate budgetary provisions for, and pay into
SAPMU's commercial bank account at least three months in advance,


﻿-5-
quarterly contributions for the Project based on the annual budget
of SAPMU approved by Sokoto State, the said contributions being
estimated by the Borrower and the Bank to amount over the project
period to forty-four million six hundred thousand Naira
(N 44,600,000) (exclusive of subsidies on farm inputs).
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall under arrangements satisfac-
tory to the Bank ensure that Sokoto State receives adequate and
timely amounts of fertilizer for the Project. Arrangements for
fertilizer procurement and distribution on sound commercial
principles, and budgeting and subsidy payments shall be furnished
to the Bank, and the Bank shall be notified promptly of any
changes, or proposed changes, in the arrangements.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause SASCO to be appointed
a licensed buying agent of the Nigerian Grains, Groundnuts and
Cotton Boards operating in Sokoto State.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, no later than January 1,
1985, review with the Bank and Sokoto State plans prepared
by SAPMU for the continuation and organization of the Project
after its completion, including proposals for training of addi-
tional staff and managers, information as to the resulting finan-
cial and budgetary implications, and plans for the division of
responsibility between Sokoto State and the local governments for
long-term maintenance of feeder roads and rural water supplies in
the Project Area.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall establish and thereafter
maintain an organization in a form and with functions and respon-
sibilities acceptable to the Bank to provide monitoring, evalua-
tion, planning and technical support (including agronomic,
training, feeder roads and infrastructural development) to SAPMU.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed in


﻿-6-
writing by the Borrower to the Bank; (ii) undertakes that, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall be
created on any assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the
Borrower (including assets of the Central Bank of Nigeria, or of
any other institution performing the functions of a central bank
of the Borrower) as security for any external debt, such lien will
ipso facto equally and ratably, secure the p,.yment of the prin-
cipal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and that in
th, creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect; and (iii) further undertakes that the Borrower will,
within the limits of its constitutional powers, make the foregoing
undertaking effective with respect to liens on assets of any of
the Borrower's political subdivisions or of any agency of any such
political subdivisions, and to the extent that the Borrower is
unable within the limits of its constitutional powers to make such
undertaking effective, the Borrower will give to the Bank an
equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any of its political sub-
divisions or of any agency of the Borrower or of any such poli-
tical subdivision, including the Central Bank of Nigeria or
any institution performing the function of a central bank for the
Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Sokoto State shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;


﻿-7-
(b) the Borrower or Sokoto State shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(c) a change shall have been made in the memorandum and
articles of association of SASCO which shall materially and
adversely affect the operations and financial condition of
SASCO;
(d) the Borrower, Sokoto State or any other authority
having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dis-
solution or disestablishment of SASCO or for the suspension
of its operations; and
(e) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that Sokoto State will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) in Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower and Sokoto State; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General conditions:
(a) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and Sokoto State has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental action;
(b) a bank account has been opened at a commercial bank for
S'LPMU and an initial deposit of three million Naira (N 3,000,000)
separately paid in by Sokoto State and by the Borrower;


﻿-8-
(c) SASCO has been duly established with an initial
minimum paid up capital of two million Naira (N 2,000,000)
of which the Sokoto Cooperative Federation has contributed one
million Naira (N 1,000,000) and Sokoto State one million Naira
(N 1,000,000);
(d) overdraft facilities covering at least three months of
SAPMU's expenditures up to five million Naira (N 5,000,000'
with the Sokoto State fully guaranteeing SAPMU's payment obliga-
tions thereunder have been established for SAPMU with a commercial
bank;
(e) SARDPC, SADPEC and SAPMU have been duly established;
(f) a draft management contract satisfactory to the Bank and
the Borrower has been prepared by Sokoto State for the management
of, and the supply of staff to, SASCO;
(g) Sokoto State has established a Project recruiting
agency satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower; and
(h) the Bank and the Borrower have been furnished with the
first of the action plans detailing proposed investments and
project activities required by Section 2.03 (b) (ii) of the
Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Sokoto State, and is legally binding upon Sokoto State
in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Sokoto State and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and Sokoto State in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The dat                   is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section    2.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Permanent Secretary
Federal Ministry of Finance
P.M.B. 12591
Federal Secretariat, Ikoyi
Lagos, Nigeria
Cable address:                      Telex:
PERMFIN                            21428
Lagos                              LAGOS
For th,- Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 10 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                28,000,000        50%
(2) Vehicles, tractors,        48,300,000        100% of foreign
heavy plant, gene-                          expenditures if
rators, road equip-                         directly im-
ment and spare                              ported and 85% if
parts                                       procured locally
(3) Salaries and allow-        23,000,000        100%
ances and direct
recruitment costs
of internationally
recruited staff,
consultant and
specialists ser-
vices, studies
and overseas
training
(4) Rural water supply:         9,000,000        100% of foreign
contracted bore-                            expenditures and
hole drilling                               70% of local ex-
penditures
(5) Chemicals and              23,900,000        100% of foreign
other farm                                  expenditures if
inputs (excluding                           directly imported
fertilizers)                                and 70% if pro-
cured locally
(6) Unallocated                14,800,000
TOTAL     147,000,000


﻿- 12 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on
or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
one million dollars ($1,000,000) may be made in respect of
Category (3) on account of payments made for such expenditures
before that date but after May 1, 1981.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, in consultation with the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank
are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿-13 -
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Categoty is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Farm and Crop Development
(1) Increasing production of the major rainfed food and
fadama (flood plain) crops through improved farm prac-
tices resulting from the provision to farmers of (A) a
rainfed crop production package involving the use of
high-yielding varieties with adequate fertilizer,
suitable plant populations and appropriate crop protec-
tion measures, combined with timely sowing and weeding
practices and, in the case of more innovative farmers,
an advanced crop production package requiring use of
higher levels of farm inputs combined with improved
land preparation and weeding; and (B) a fadama crop
production package involving improved cultivation
practices and water management techniques including
introduction of modern water lifting devices, improved
plot lay out and land levelling, and the establishament
of a Fadama' Planning and Demonstration Section to
provide technical advice to fadama farmers.
(2) Establishment of a Fadama Development Fund to provide
grants to selected fadama farmers for the purchase
of pumps and the preparation of fadama land.
(3) Operation of a farm management advisory service to
assist more advanced group and individual farmers and to
improve the land use planning capabilities of the
responsible Sokoto State and local government agencies
including development of small-scale conservation areas
to test and demonstrate conservation principles and
establishment of a land use section to advise Project
management on land development opportunities and pro-
blems and assist in siting Project-financed infra-
structure.
(4) A seed multiplication program involving the streng-
thening and expansion of existing Gusau seed multiplica-
tion facilities and establishment of two seed multi-
plication farms in the Western Zone (100 ha) and


﻿- 15 -
Northern Zone (50 ha) to produce the Project's seed
requirements for rice, vegetables and sugarcane.
(5) An applied research program involving research into (A)
farming systems and intermediate technology to deter-
mine, among other things, the agronomically compatible
and economically viable crop combinations for the
different ecological zones, (B) fertilizer research
including a soil testing laboratory to determine the
nutrient status of the State's soil, and (C) soil and
water management research.
Part B:   Infrastructural Development
(1) Construction of about 1,700 km of feeder roads providing
all-weather access to farm service centers and agricul-
tural markets and linking important agricultural areas
to the existing main road network including establish-
ment of Project road maintenance units in each zone
and training of local government staff in subsequent
maintenance of said feeder roads.
(2) A program to improve rural water supplies involving
drilling of about 1,200 boreholes to provide potable
water to rural communities and training of local
government staff in their maintenance.
(3) A building program involving construction of Project
offices, workshops, stores, staff houses and about 68
farm service centers, the upgrading of 28 fertilizer
stores into full farm service centers and the estab-
lishment of building sections in each zone to be
responsible for maintenance.
(4) Improvement of 32 rural markets including simple produce
handling and reception facilities, lorry parks, covered
vendor stalls, scales, water supplies and concrete
floors and construction of additional cooperative
storage facilities for storage of farm inputs and
crops.
Part C:   Institutional Support and Training
(1) A program to strengthen institutions responsible for
extension, credit, training and maintenance of feeder


﻿- 16 -
roads and rural water supply facilities under the
Project including establishment of sound institutional
structures and development of maximum indigenous capa-
bility in technical and managerial fields.
(2) Establishment of a monitoring and evaluation unit to
evaluate progress of the Project and provide guidelines
for future projects.
(3) Training for Project staff and for farmers involving, as
the case may require, training in improved agricultural
methods, infrastructure development, communications and
rural administration and including the development of a
demonstration farm (about 20 ha) on or near the existing
Gusau School of Agriculture, the establishment at Bunza
of a new training center for field officers and agricul-
tural assistants specialized in fadama irrigation
practices, establishment of zonal training units and
residental training for staff and farmers at the Talata
Mafara, Zuru and Bunza centers, establishment of a
Media Center to develop training materials and develop-
ment at the Talata Mafara Farm Training Center of a
training program for upgrading of the basic educational
qualifications of field officers.
Part D:   Technical Assistance (about 108 man-months)
(1) Provision of specialized training services including a
review of management training.
(2) Provision of specialized skills to support the rural
water supplies program included in the Project, parti-
cularly with respect to interpretation of side-looking
radar imagery and hydrogeological data.
(3) Provision of specialized advice on land use planning
including services in remote sensing, air photography
interpretation, soil surveys and cartography.
(4) Provision of specialized assistance in the carrying out
of farm level studies to support the monitoring and
evaluation activities required under the Project.


﻿- 17 -
(5) Provision of specialized assistance in the formulation
of post project development plans, including arrange-
ments for maintenance of feeder roads and rural water
supply.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1986.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1987
through April 15, 2002                     4,900,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  1.75%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                         3.50%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                  6.40%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                  9.30%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                 10.45%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                 11.60%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  4bL     dayof        , 1983_
FOR SECRETARY


