Page  1
Loan From World Bank 
 
Environmental Impact Assessment 
on 
Xiwang Transit Center Reconstruction Project 
of 
Shijizhuang Municipal Traffic Project 
 
(Simplified Edition) 
 
Construction Unit: 
Shijiazhuang Municipal Traffic Project Office
 
Assessment Unit: 
Hebei University of Science and Technology
 
E409 
V7 
Page  2
1
1. Origin of Project 
Xiwang Transit Center which is established in 1986 locates at No. 849 Zhongshan West 
Road, now it is used by No.3 Public Transport Company. It undertakes the transportation 
of western residents, students, army and academy, and the traffic relay with Xiwang 
long-distance passenger transport station and Shangzhuang united college, the main 
functions are parking station, original station, dispatching management, vehicles
’
repair 
and etc. In recent years, with the citizen’s need of outgoing, the public transport of 
provincial capital developeds quickly,  vehicles and personnel increases every year, and 
public transport intelligent altitude system is implemented, the parking area and the 
repair area which were constructed in 1980s have not been adequate, the design and 
overall arrangement can not comply with modern requirements, furthermore most of the 
existing constructions are disrepair for many years,  the structure is aging, they are in the 
urgent need of alteration. 
7KH\03
reconstruction project of Xiwang transit center rebuilds the existing original station 
into a public transport transit center with comprehensive function of dispatching 
management, waiting, passengers’ service, parking, repair, work management and etc. 
The implementation of this project is an important content of Shijiazhuang urban public 
traffic’s improvement which is involved in the public traffic subentry of Urban Transport 
Project of Shijiazhuang loaning from World Bank. The construction of the item has great 
significance to the implementation of urban traffic priority and the improvement of urban 
traffic environment. 
2. Main Construction Content and Scale of the Project
 
This project is the general reconstruction of the parking area on the basis of original 
Xiwang transit center, it removes all the original ground buildings except for the gas 
station (320m
2
), replans the station, and it is proposed to build new multi-functional 
comprehensive buildings, three waiting shelters, repair workshop, parts of the road 
surface and pipeline of station area, electric power and fire fighting, and other intelligent 
altitude system. The construction land area of project base is 9457.5m
2
,
among which the 
hardening area is 5277.5m
2
,
general building land area is 760 m
2
(including waiting 
shelter), the total investment is 9 million yuan, among which investment for 
environmental protection is 72000yuan, accounting for 0.8% of total investment. 
Page  3
2
3. Assessment Standard
 
The Assessment Standards adopted China
’s domestic relevant Environmental Quality 
Standards and the Pollutants Discharge Standards. The selected standard has already 
been confirmed by Shijiazhuang Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau. 
4. Construction Impact on Environment and Mitigation Measures
 
4.1 Impact on Water and Mitigation Measures
 
The main sources of outer draining sewage of Xiwang public transport transit center are: 
sewage for washing land in repair workshop and living sewage of general building. Main 
pollutants in sewage are COD, SS, NH
3
-N, petroleum and etc. The ground-washing 
sewage of repair workshop which is treated in separation tank and the living sewage 
which is treated in septic tank will be drained into municipal sewage pipeline, after 
joining with other sewage, they will be get further treatment in Qiaoxi Sewage Treatment 
Plant, then enter the Minxin River at last, thus it has very little impact on water 
environment. 
4.2 Impact on Air Environment and Mitigation Measures
 
This project mainly aims to reconstruct the original Xiwang public transport hinge 
station, which is to construct the existing original station into a public transport transit 
center with dispatching management, waiting, passenger’s service, parking, maintaining, 
office management and other comprehensive functions. The repair workshop will not be 
painted, and then the main exhaust gas is tail gas from engine of automobiles, which will 
have no impact on air of ambient environment. The project will demolish the existing 
0.7t/h hot water boiler, which can decrease pollutants emission, with SO
2
0.8t/a, and 
smoke dust 4.3t/a, thus the ambient environment will be improved in a certain degree. 
4.3 Noise Impact on Environment
 
The main noise sources are machine tool noise from repair workshop and noise of testing 
engine, their noise value will reach to 65
80dB(A). The project will adopt muffler used 
in vehicles, inside insulation and limiting testing time to control noise impact on ambient 
environment. From the forecasting result, the forecast value range of plant boundary of 
daytime project is 52.3
58.4 dB(A), the resident building of Xiwang Village is 54.1 
dB(A), the dormitory of Military Academy is 53.5 dB(A); the forecast value range of 
plant boundary of night project is 43.2
47.2dB(A), the forecast value of resident 
building of Xiwang Village is 43.5 dB(A), the dormitory of Military Academy is 43.7 
Page  4
3
dB(A), all the plant boundary can satisfy the requirements of ClassI, ClassIV relevant 
standards in 
Standard of Noise at Boundary of Industrial Enterprises 
(GB12348-90). 
4.4 Impact of Solid Waste
 
The solid waste of this project is mainly from living garbage of personnel, and little 
oiliness cotton yarn of repair workshop. Through analogy investigation and information 
provided by construction unit, the living garbage amount is 15 t/a, and the oiliness cotton 
yarn amount is 0.20t/a. The site will set up fixed dustbin to collect living garbage, which 
will be reclaimed by environment protection department of Qiaoxi District; the oiliness 
cotton yarn will be reclaimed by professional department after collection. All the solid 
waste during the project running period will be disposed appropriately, and will not 
arouse second pollution to the environment. 
4.5 Analysis of Social Benefit Impact during Running Period
 
(1)
\03
According to the 
“four plus one group” plan of Shijiazhuang City, when the city is 
developing to west, southwest, and northwest, the Xiwang Transit Center will be a sub-
center of public traffic to radiate to wide areas, which will solve the problems of 
developing around mountain areas and enter downtown for the residence in around 
mountain areas. 
(2) It will increase parking area in the transit center, which improved the existing crowd 
situation. The rebuilt parking area capacity will reach to 113 buses from the former 80 
buses. 
(3)
\03
The traffic organization ability of the station area is promoted, and the safety hidden 
trouble is decreased. The original constructions are arranged unreasonably, which 
blocked parking and vehicle collection, after reconstruction, the land is leveled up and 
the parking and departure of vehicles will be more reasonably. It will set up three waiting 
islands for passengers and standardize the departure sequence.  
(4)
\03
Improving the multi-function service level of the transit center. After the completion: 
firstly, it will provide convenience for passengers to change and waiting buses; secondly, 
it can provide service information through service hall and system, IC card selling and 
service hotline offer more convenient service to the passengers; thirdly, it can standardize 
departure sequence, which will have advantage for passengers to wait in order, and 
provide safety guarantee to passengers; fourthly, it can make production and 
management orderly through intelligent scheduling system, which will improve the 
general service level of provincial capital public transport at the same time.
\03
Page  5
4
(5) Reducing the hidden trouble of firefighting, and electricity usage. The firefighting 
establishment in the station are very simple, after reconstruction, the station will increase 
firefighting establishment in accordance with the new firefighting standard, which will 
reduce the hidden trouble. The transformer also reaches to its age limit, which is very 
easy to arouse a fire. It is quite necessary for a parking lot with more than 100 vehicles 
capacity to change transformer, and increase firefighting establishment. 
5. Policy for safety guarantee 
 
According to relevant regulations of World Bank and relevant articles on environment 
documents of World Bank, Shijiazhuang Traffic Project Office and evaluation unit has 
checked and confirmed the policy for safety ensure. See results on Table 1. 
Table 1 Screen sheet of safety ensure policy 
No.
Checking content 
Confirming results  
1
Evaluation on 
environment impact 
Relevant (environment impact has been approved by Shijiazhuang 
Environment Protection Bureau). 
2
Natural habitat 
All the areas involved in the project are located at city zone, and 
not refer to natural habitat. 
3
Moving work 
No transference work is involved in the project. 
4
Cultural relic and 
heritage  
After investigation, no cultural relic is involved in this project. 
5
Disputing area 
There is no international disputing area. 
6
Safety of dam 
There is no dam in the range of shijiazhuang Municipal traffic 
Project. 
7
International water area 
There is no international water area. 
8
Forest  
All the areas involved in the project is located at city zone, and 
there is no natural forest and manual forest. 
9
Pesticide management 
This project will not involve pesticide and herbicide during the 
construction and operation period. 
6. Conclusion on Feasibility of the Project
 
The reconstruction project of Xiwang Transit Center of Shijiazhuang municipal traffic 
project using World Bank loan conforms to the national industry policy. It adopts perfect 
environmental protection and treatment measures to ensure that all the pollutants 
emission are in accordance with standards. The implement of the project has little effect 
on ambient environment. Besides that, this project will utilize the existing site of No. 3 
Transit Company, and will not levy new land, which can make the existing land resource 
arranged reasonably. Therefore, From the point view of environmental protection, the 
construction of this item is feasible. 
Page  6
5
