Page  1
Loan From World Bank 
 
Environmental Impact Assessment 
on 
TanGu Public Traffic Transit Center 
Construction Project 
of 
Shijiazhuang Municipal Traffic Project
 
(Simplified Edition) 
 
Construction Unit: 
Shijiazhuang Municipal Traffic Project Office
 
Compiling Time:
 Dec.14th.2007 
 
E409 
V6 
Page  2
1
1. Origin of the project 
In recent years, with the construction of Shijiazhuang city zone and the enlargement and 
development of its scale, the TanGu Area which locates in ZhaiYing Street and ZhongShan 
Eastern Road has already been an important area of eastern part, which integrates
 
residential 
sub zones, schools and commerce net. Passengers flow is centralized, and the requirement of 
public traffic is increasing year after year. At present, TanGu bus parking lots and the 
original stations have not been fit to the development of public traffic. In order to satisfy the 
residents
’
requirement of outgoing by bus, TanGu parking lot should be rebuilt 
comprehensively, so that passengers flow can be organized more reasonablely, and it can 
become a public traffic transit center with some integrative functions, such as dense 
departure, parking, zero distance transfer, service system
\03
for
\03
passengers and so on. 
The implement of reconstruction item of TanGu public transport transit center is an 
important content of improving Shijiazhuang urban public traffic which is involved in the 
public traffic subentry of Municipal Transport Project of Shijiazhuang loaning from World 
Bank. The construction of the item has great significance to the implement of urban traffic 
priority and the improvement of urban traffic environment. 
2. Main construction contents and scale of the project
 
The project is rebuilt on the basis of TanGu parking station in existence, it includes 
removing the existing south-east management room, building new three-floor management 
room and the waiting island, besides that, it includes the hardening of northern side of 
management room and new inspection platform in the south-eastern part of parking station. 
The total land area for rebuilding construction is 6345m
2
,
among which 5277.5m
2
is for the 
parking hardening, 317.5m
2
is for dispatching the management room, 330 m
2
is for the 
waiting island, and 420m
2
is
 
for
 
inspection platform
.
The total construction area is 1713.5m
2
,
with 952.5m
2
for management room, 341m
2
for waiting land, and 420m
2
for inspection 
platform. 
The total investment of the project is RMB 4,000,000 yuan, among which the investment on 
the environmental protection is RMB 100,000 yuan, accounting for 2.5% of the total 
investment. 
Page  3
2
3. Assessment standards
 
The Assessment Standards adopted China
’s domestic relevant Environmental Quality 
Standards and the Pollutants Discharge Standards. The selected standard has already been 
confirmed by Shijiazhuang Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau. 
4. Influence of the project construction on environment and the 
mitigation measures
 
4.1 Influence on the aqueous environment and the mitigation measures 
The main outer emission of the item is domestic sewage, it engenders 1.5m
3
per day. The 
domestic sewage is disposed in the cesspool, then emits into the sewage net of ZhongShan 
East Road, after that, it emits into Bridge East Sewage Disposal Factory to be disposed. The 
waste water quality of outer emission of the item is applicable to Class 3 of Sewage 
Comprehensive Discharge Standards(GB8978-1996) and the requirement for entry water 
quality of Bridge East Sewage Disposal Factory, and doesn’t have any adverse effect on the 
running of sewage disposal factory. Table 4 shows the standard values. Therefore, it has 
little influence on the aqueous environment.
 
4.2 Influence on the air environment and the mitigation measures
 
The tail gas which is contained carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxide and hydrocarbon in the 
course of motor vehicles running may have bad influence on resident and ambient air. 
Therefore, vehicles which don’t reach the standard should be controlled strictly. After 
finishing this item, it can not only guarantee the traffic fluency, improve the running 
efficiency, but also greatly reduce the engendered quantity of tail gas. After implementing 
this item, it may not pollute the ambient atmosphere environment, but also alleviate the local 
air environmental pollution which is brought by motor vehicles tail gas. 
4.3 Influence of noise on the environment
 
After the completion and exertion of this item, the noise pollution source is mainly from the 
noise of vehicles which are call at and away from the station, such as engine, transmission 
system and exhaust system, the attrition between tyre and road surface also produce noise. 
The completion of the item will improve the ambient traffic environment and traffic 
condition of passengers. At the same time, it provides basic
 
guarantee for dispatching and 
operation
 
of buses, therefore, the influence of traffic noise on the surrounding environment 
will be reduced. The parking area is mainly arranged at northern part of the parking station, 
Page  4
3
the noise brought by the
 
vehicles at southern part of the parking station during the running 
period will have little effect on residents who live in the internal unit
’s
 
employee dormitory 
after the distance reduction and the obstruction by sound insulation glass. The employee 
dormitory which is combined with external units locates at the north side of employee 
dormitory building which belongs to the NO.1 Urban Public Transport Co.. Since the noise 
which is brought by the vehicles at parking station went through distance reduction and 
obstruction by the employee dormitory building which belongs to the NO.1 Urban Public 
Transport Co., the noise reduction value has reached more than 15 dB. Therefore, noise 
brought by the vehicles has little effect on residents who live in the employee dormitory 
which is combined with external units. 
4.4 Solid waste
 
The solid wastes are mainly the domestic wastes which were brought in the process of 
employee’s work and life, the rubbish volume reaches 7.5 t/a. The quantity of the whole 
parking station may not increase. After the centralized collection of domestic wastes, they 
were carried to landfill
 
sites
 
for sanitary landfill. 
5. Feasible conclusion of the project
 
The construction project of TanGu Transit Center which is included in Municipal Transport 
Project of Shijiazhuang loaning from World Bank accords with national industry policy. It 
has adopted more consummate environmental protection and treatment measures to ensure 
that all the pollutants emission are in accordance with standards. The implement of the 
project has little effect on ambient environment. From the point view of environmental 
protection, the construction of this item is feasible.
Page  5
4
