Page  1
L
L
o
o
a
a
n
n
F
F
r
r
o
o
m
m
W
W
o
o
r
r
l
l
d
d
B
B
a
a
n
n
k
k
Environmental Impact Assessment 
on 
A
Subsequent Project 
of 
Shijiazhuang Municipal Traffic Project 
 
(Simplified Edition) 
 
Construction Unit: 
Shijiazhuang Municipal Traffic Project Office
 
Evaluation Unit:
 Hebei University of Science and Technology
 
E409 
V4 
Page  2
1
1. Background of the subsequent project 
The 
“Shijiazhuang Municipal Traffic Project loaning from World Bank” is formally started 
in 1999, which mainly invested in the municipal traffic road net, municipal public traffic, 
traffic management, road maintenance, environmental protection and etc. With the 
construction and putting into use one after the other, the municipal traffic of Shijiazhuang 
City is improved greatly and the quality of municipal environment turns better. 
In order to use the superfluous loan well, Shijiazhuang Municipal Traffic Project Office and 
World Bank have sufficiently discussed many times and decided that the superfluous loan 
will be used continuously to boost the construction of Shijiazhuang public traffic, and at the 
same time, to further improve the municipal traffic structure, elevate the road net service 
level and provide necessary conditions and efficient guarantee to municipal sustainable 
development through strengthening traffic management, road maintenance and improving 
the joints of road nets. 
The subsequent project includes Pingan Street Project, Zhaolingpu Cloverleaf Junction 
Project, North 2
nd
 ring-Hongxing Street Cloverleaf Junction Project, Zhonghua North Street 
Project and Huaian Road-Puyuanjie pedestrian bridge Project. The World Bank has pointed 
out in the memorandum that the subsequent project should support and realize the overall 
strategy of Shijiazhuang Traffic Project and be in accordance with the predetermined goals, 
and all the projects should accord with the requirements of project environmental 
management activities and migration activity plan. 
2. Standard 
The Environmental Assessment Standards adopted China’s domestic relevant Environmental 
Quality Standards and Pollutants Discharge Standards. The selected standards have already 
been confirmed by Shijiazhuang Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau.  
3. Main contents of the subsequent project
 
As the supplementation and perfection of Shijiazhuang Municipal Traffic Project, the 
subsequent project consists of special public transportation road project, cloverleaf junction 
project for road net joints, perfection project of present road nets, traffic management 
project, public traffic research and matching projects, including Pingan Street Road Project, 
Zhaolingpu Cloverleaf Junction Project, North 2
nd
 ring-Hongxing Street flyover Project, 
Zhonghua North Street Project, Huaian Road-Puyuanjie pedestrian bridge Project. The 
Page  3
2
project investment is estimated as 339,538,000RMB, among which 271,103,100 is for 
construction and installation. 
4. Environmental impacts during construction period and the 
mitigation measures
 
4.1 Environmental impacts during construction period 
4.1.1 Impact on air during construction period 
The main pollutants to the air during road construction are lime-soil mixing, secondary 
blowing dust from the operation of construction vehicles and road machinery, asphalt fume 
and benzo (a) pyrene produced in the process of asphaltum decoction and stirring when the  
road surface is paved.  
(1) Dust pollution caused by the mixing of lime and soil 
The lime-soil mixing will be done at a station. It is provided by Processing Factory of 
Shijiazhuang Municipal Construction Head Office, therefore, there is no impact from stirring 
station on both sides of the road, whereas, the dust produced from mixing soil
’s spreading-
cloth and leveling process at the spot will have impact on the ambient environment. 
Shijiazhuang City Government has issued “Shijizhuang City Dust Pollution Prevention 
Method at Construction Site” and the municipal traffic project has taken more strict 
management rules at construction sites. The management effect of initial period of the 
project shows that the dust can not be avoided but can be controlled effectively. 
(2) During the period of construction, the transportation and the loading and unloading of 
goods and materials will bring dust pollution along the road. 
In the course of materials’ loading and unloading and the transportation between the building 
sites, a great deal of dust come into being. Its influence could last 30 minutes and the 
influence scope extends to about 300 meters. During the construction period, the 
transportation causes dust reentrainment, the influence scope could reach 50 meters all 
around. Therefore, it is necessary to control the carrying mode of goods and materials, the 
transportation vehicles transport and cover the materials, discarded residues and discarded 
soil by a closed way, working in the loading and unloading site, equip the measure of 
preventing dust, sprinkle water regularly, restrict the work of loading and unloading and etc 
under the condition of unfavorable weather.
 
Page  4
3
Road construction may pollute the atmosphere environment of both sides of road and the 
surroundings of construction site, increase the concentration of TSP and affect the living of 
people. Shijiazhuang Municipal Environmental Monitoring Center has ever made analogical 
monitoring to the construction site at the southern part of Tiyu Street. The results showed 
that whether spraying water or not would make great difference to the environment. The 
details are shown in Table 1.  
Table 1   Pollution analysis of raised dust at construction site 
Location monitoring 
No watering 
Watering 
10m 1.75 
0.437 
20m 1.30 
0.350 
30m 0.780 
0.310 
40m 0.365 
0.265 
50m 0.345 
0.250 
Concentration of 
TSP at different 
distance 
100m 0.330 
0.238 
During the construction period, the sections (such as residential areas, schools,  hospitals and 
etc.) which are sensitive to raised dust should be paid much more attentions. It should take 
measures to controll raised dust and mitigate the pollution. For example, spraying water to 
road surface to decrease dust, controlling transportation vehicles when passing the populous 
area, such as villages, school and etc., taking a bypass or change the route. If there is no 
bypass or the route can not be changed, the rush hour should be avoided in order to decrease 
the influence of road dust. 
(3) The analysis of impact of asphalt fume and benzo(a)pyrene 
Asphalt fume and benzo(a)pyrene are mainly produced during asphalt decoction and mixing 
at asphalt concrete mixing station. The subsequent project will not built new asphalt concrete 
mixing station and the asphalt concrete as a commodity is supplied by Concrete Processing 
Factory of Shijiazhuang City Municipal Construction Company. The material mixture will 
be transported to the site by automobiles and a little amount of asphalt fume is produced. 
Such a small amount of fume can not be controlled at present, but its quantity is quite small 
and the duration is short.Therefore, Asphalt fume and benzo (a) pyrene have little impact on 
environment and the impact will vanish with the completion of the construction.  
Page  5
4
4.1.2 Impact of noise during construction period 
4.1.2.1 Construction machinery and noise source intensity 
The project construction which have relatively great effect on the noise environment are 
bulldozer, loader, road rollers, excavator, tippers, pavers and other construction machineries. 
The maximum noise levels of the above machinery equipments are listed in table 2. 
Table 2 Noises of construction machineries and transportation operation 
Name 
Distance between monitoring 
point and sound source(m) 
Highest sound levels 
(dB(A)) 
Bulldozer 5 
86 
Loader 5 
90 
Roller 5 
84 
Excavator
 
5
86
Tipper 7.5 
88 
Paver 5 
87 
4.1.2.2 Influence scope of construction noise 
The assessment standard for environmental noise of construction machinery during operation 
is “ 
Noise Limitation Values of Construction Site
”
GB12523-90
.
This project includes construction of public transport priority, present road net perfection, 
cloverleaf junction and etc. Public transport priority and present road net perfection include 
several phases, namely cleaning, paving the road surface, installing auxiliary facilities and so 
on. The construction of cloverleaf junction includes pile foundation casting in-place, pile 
caps casting
upper structure construction and road surface construction. When operating at 
each stage, equipments need certain operation space and the construction machinery need a 
certain working distance. Therefore, the noise source intensity is the point sound source and 
the noise attenuation formula is as follows: 
L
A
=L
O
-20lg (r
A
/r
o
)
In the formula
L
A
----noise level at the distance of r
A
from noise source, dB(A); 
 
L
O
---- noise level at the distance of r
o
from noise source, dB (A). 
Using the above formula, the calculated area influenced by the construction machinery noise 
is shown in table 3. 
Table 3    Area influenced by noise of construction machinery 
Level(dB) 
 
Distance(m) 
Standard 
Value 
(dB) 
Distance reached 
standard 
(m) 
Page  6
5
Machinery 
10 20 40 60 80 100 150 Day 
Night
Day Night 
Loader 84.0
78.0 72.0
68.4
66.0
64.0
60.5
75 55  28 
281 
Roller 78.0
72.0 66.0
62.4
60.0
58.0
54.5
75 55  14 
140 
Excavator
 
85.5
79.5 73.5
70.0
67.0
65.5
62.0
75 55  34 
335 
Tipper 80.0
74.0 68.0
64.4
62.0
60.0
56.5
70 55  31 
177 
Paver 81.0
75.0 69.0
65.4
63.0
61.0
57.5
70 55  35 
199 
From the calculation, we know that, without any shelter and using a single machine, the 
influence scope is 35 meters in the day and 335 meters at night, and beyond this distance, the 
noise will meet the requirement of 
“
Noise Limitation Value for Construction Site
”(GB12523-90). 
4.1.2.3 Analysis of impact of construction noise  
(1) If using a single machine, it may reach GB12523
90 
Noise Limitation Values of the 
Construction Site
 
when being 35m away or farther from the construction site in the daytime 
and it can reach the standard limitation value when being 335m away or farther from the 
construction site at night. In the actual construction, normally many kinds of machines are 
used at the same time, and noise influence scope will be larger, especially, the construction 
of Hongxing Street-North 2
nd
 ring cloverleaf junction and Zhaolingpu cloverleaf junction 
project have high noise source and long construction period, so the inhabitants’ living will be 
influenced in a certain extent. 
(2) On average, the noise sensitive point is about 5
30m away from the construction site. 
The construction noise has great effect on surrounding sound environment. During 
daytime
the project will have an obvious impact on the study of students in school and the 
treatment and rest of patients in hospital along the road, and it has an especially evident 
effect on the inhabitants at night, therefore, strict measures must be taken to reduce the effect 
that the construction noise has on the targets of environmental protection to the maximum.  
(3) With the completion of the project, the impact of construction noise will no longer exist. 
The unfavorable impact of construction noise on environment is a temporary and short- term 
behavior. 
4.1.3 Impact of vibration
 
4.1.3.1 Vibration standard 
The vibration standard in urban area(GB10070-88)is listed in table 4. 
Table 4  Standard vibration values along lead vertical direction 
in various urban areas (dB) 
Applied zone 
Daytime 
Nighttime 
Special residential area 
65 
65 
Page  7
6
Residential, cultural and 
educational area 
70 67 
Mixed area and commercial center 
75 72 
Industry centralized area 
75 
72 
Two sides of main road 
75 
72 
Two sides of railway 
80 
80 
In the subsequent project, along the two sides of Zhaolingpu cloverleaf junction, there are 
mainly commercial shops and no environmental sensitive point such as residential building, 
school or hospital; along the south side of North 2
nd
 ring-Hongxing Street cloverleaf 
junction, there is a residential building of an Airplane Factory and the first floor of the 
building are all commercial shops; there mainly are commercial shops along the two sides of 
Zhonghua North Street (North 2
nd
 ring-Beiwaihuan) Road Project and the pedestrian bridge 
of Huaian Road-Puyuan Street; only along 
Ping’an Street Project there is a few residential, 
school and hospital sensitive points. According to the principal of strict requirements, the 
standard of residential, cultural and educational area in the above standard is carried out. 
4.1.3.2 Impact of construction vibration  
In the construction project, there are many kinds of vibration sources causing vibration of 
foundation, among them the main sources are piling foundation works, ground base 
improving project, ground tamping works, running of transport heavy vehicles and so on. 
The construction of this project includes public transportation priority, present road net 
perfection and cloverleaf junction. In the cloverleaf junction project, the pile foundation is 
constructed through pouring which has no vibration basically; therefore, no big vibration 
impact occurs. The vibration caused by ground base improving project is mainly from sand 
and earth tamping operation and the equipments are vibrating hammer and other tamping 
equipments. The vibration from running of transport heavy vehicles means the vibration 
impact produced from road roller, diesel engine and etc. According to the material provided 
by “Japanese Environmental Effect Evaluation Manual”, the vibration of construction 
machinery is shown in table 5.   
Table 5 Vibration level of construction machineries 
Vibration level
 dB 
 
Equipment 
5m  10m 20m 30m 
Vibrating 
hammer 
75 67 48 44 
Road 
roller  58 53 50 48 
Diesel 
engine 62 58 54 51 
Page  8
7
It can be seen from the data of the above table 5, the vibration effect of construction 
machinery mentioned above can influence 10 meters away from the source, which meets the 
requirement of residential, cultural and educational area in 
“Environmental Vibration 
Standard of Urban Area”. The distance between the construction site of the subsequent 
projects is about 10
30 meters to the sensitive points (residential building, school, hospital) 
and the construction at night will impact the sensitive points within 10 meters. Therefore, the 
heavy construction machinery such as vibrating hammer will not be allowed to be used at 
night in order to prevent the vibration from disturbing the residents. During the construction 
period, we should promote the relevant personnel to know the vibration, shorten the time of 
operation of construction machinery, reasonably distribute and arrange working site and 
time. After adopting the above measures, the vibration during construction period can be 
reduced to the minimum and within the range of standard. 
4.1.4 Impact on ecological environment
 
4.1.4.1 Impact on virescence plants 
As the construction content of the item taking road maintenance and municipal traffic system 
perfection as the main components, it is unnecessary to change the restriction line of road in 
quo for most of the construction of the sections of road, appraising from a overall aspect, the 
damage to the virescence plants on both sides of road is comparatively little. Whereas, it is 
inevitable to loss the virescence plants on both sides of the road in the scope of the project, 
table 6 shows the initial statistics of the types and the amount of dismantled virescence plants 
durin
g
the period of project construction. 
Table 6 Kinds and amount of dismantled virescence plants  
Trees (individual) 
Project section 
Greenbelt, 
green fence 
m
2
Poplar 
London 
plane tree 
Willow
Peach Pine 
Ping’an Street 
4125 
 
210 
 
 
 
Zhonghua North Street 
(North 2
nd
 ring-
Beiwaihuan) 
0
216
Zhaolingpu cloverleaf 
junction 
 
390
44
56 
Hongxing Street
North 
2nd
 ring cloverleaf 
junction 
6000  
 443 
131 
27 
Total  
216 
210 
833 
175 
83 
As the area of greenbelt decreasing during the construction period, the impact on the 
ecological system along two sides of the road is not avoidable and the impact is very small 
Page  9
8
when comparing with municipal greenbelt system. With the starting exertion of this item, 
the consummation of the greening, the covering rate of the plants will increase 
continuously and the influence will be disappeared gradually. 
4.1.4.2 Impact on urban landscape
 
(1) During construction period, it is inevitable to affect all kinds of pipelines and conduits 
such as sewage conduits, gas conduits, heating power conduits, communication and electric 
power conduits and etc. in urban municipal project, and some conduits have to be dismantled 
and removed, which will damage the urban road and affect urban landscape. 
(2) During construction, the noise, dispersing ash, exhaust gas, rubbish from project, sewage 
from construction and etc. will influence on the environment of urban hygiene and urban 
landscape, the floating dust of transport vehicles and residue leaking have a influence of soot 
on the road surface, greening belt and the houses owned by citizens. 
(3) In the course of construction, the insulation facilities such as guardrail, enclosing cloth 
and etc. are set, which will bring influence to the urban landscape. 
4.2 Mitigation measures to the impact on environment during construction 
4.2.1 Mitigation measures to the impact on environmental air  
The most construction sites of subsequent project locate at populous areas. Practical 
measures are taken on construction sites to prevent air pollution caused by the construction. 
The surface of the site must be solidified and a concrete floor can be used if the condition is 
available. 
(1) All the entrance and exit of the construction sites are set with the measure of cleaning 
wheel to ensure that there is no mud or dirt on the wheels of the vehicles entering and going 
out of the construction site.
 
(2) At construction site, a temporary garbage collection point is established and the 
construction waste and waste soil should be recovered and cleared in time
 
(3) The rubbish of cloverleaf junction and viaduct project should be cleared and transported 
vertically with container, and should be strictly prohibited throwing from high and throwing 
at random
 
(4) A system is set up to spray water and sweep at the construction site and persons are 
specially assigned to spray and sweep. At site and if it is clear and wind power is bigger than 
3m/s, spray water two times per day. If the wind speed is faster than level 4, the civil work 
will be stopped
 
Page  10
9
(5) The construction site will be kept continuously tidy and clean. Waste soil should be 
cleared and shipped out. The pedestrian path should be kept tidy, clean, flat and unblocked
 
(6) At construction site, any waste and material that produce hazardous gases, smoke, dust 
and stink are forbidden to be burnt. 
4.2.2 Mitigation measures to the impact on acoustic environment 
(1) Reasonably arrange the working time 
The construction unit should strictly abide by the rules of
 “Regulations on the Control of the 
Environmental Noises Pollution in the Urban Area of Shijiazhuang”. The construction site 
and working time will be reasonably arranged. Construction will be strictly prohibited during 
12:00
14:00
22:00
6:00. If construction at night is necessary, an approval should be 
granted from local environmental authorities and the affected residents should be apprised. 
The operation of electrical saw, pneumatic pick, electric hammer and other high noisy 
machinery are prohibited at the areas near residential area and hospital along the line from 
23:00 to 6:00 in the next morning.  
(2) Reasonably arrange the route and time for the transport vehicles 
The transport vehicles should be determined reasonable route and time according to the rules 
of relevant authorities. 
(3) Reasonably select construction machinery 
Construction machinery with low noise and small vibration or affiliated with noise 
eliminator or noise insulator should be selected. High noisy machinery should not be 
operated at the same site and the same time. The construction of viaducts adopts 
industrialized and standardized components and we should try our best to avoid making 
them on the construction sites. 
(4) Strengthen environment management and accept the supervision of environmental 
authorities 
According to the rules of national and local laws, decrees and regulations, the construction 
unit should accept supervision of environmental authorities actively. When bidding for the 
subsequent projects, the measures decreasing the noise should be clearly defined in the 
bidding document. When construction unit contracts the project, the noise control during 
construction should be part of the contract and specialpersons are assigned to be responsible 
for it during construction and project supervision. 
Page  11
10
4.2.3 Mitigation measures to the impact on water environment 
During the construction period, the drainage of wastewater should be organized in a 
designed manner, and it is forbidden to drain or flow disorderly and to pollute the road or 
environment. 
(1) The construction wastewater is drained into the municipal pipe net after simply treated 
and it is forbidden to drain directly. 
(2) During the period of construction, the living encampment is arranged in the city and the 
domestic sewage is discharged into municipal conduit net. 
(3) During construction period, the slurry water is drained into the municipal pipe net after 
simply treated with filtration, sedimentation and etc. It is prohibited from draining directly. 
4.2.4 Disposal of solid waste 
The solid wastes produced from this project are mainly the construction garbage, superfluous 
soil and a small amount of living garbage. In the road construction which is involved in the 
subsequent project, the predicted construction garbage is 61295.1 m
3
and the predicted 
superfluous soil is 5523.82m
3
.
In order to reduce the environmental impacts of waste soil 
and construction garbage, measures are taken as follows
 
(1) During construction, it is required strictly to go through formalities of discharging the 
superfluous soil and garbage. After approved by relevant Authorities of Shijiazhuang City, 
the superfluous soil and garbage can be started to pileup and stored at designated place. 
(2) The construction and maintenance garbage are required to be recovered, classified, stored 
and disposed. The useful waste should be sent to recovery station and the waste which can 
not be reused will be delivered to environmental sanitation department for harmless 
treatment. 
(3) At the centralized encampment for construction staffs, pluralistic management persons 
are nominated who are responsible to collect the living garbage and sent to sanitary 
department for treatment. 
Page  12
11
5. Environment impacts and mitigation measures at operating period
 
5.1 Impact to air 
5.1.1 Analysis method 
When calculating the discharging source power of motor vehicles, the Mobile5b of U.S EPA 
recommended by World Bank is adopted to calculate the remission intensity of motor 
mobile; the mode of CALINE4 is adopted to calculate the diffusing concentration of 
pollutants in a short distance of both sides of the road; the mode of ISCLT
 Industrial 
Source Complex Long Term
 is adopted to analyze the changing situation of urban 
environment air quality after the improvement of traffic situation. 
5.1.2 Pollutant source intensity of vehicle emission
\03
MOBILE5 model 
(1) Basic calculation 
Using model MOBILE5
the basic emission factor of motor vehicles at standard working 
condition is obtained according to the emission controlling level; the basic emission factor is 
corrected according to the differences of each affecting factor when comparing the real 
situation with standard working condition; and finally the emission factor at real working 
condition is gained. 
(2) Basic modification to model MOBILE5
 
The Environment Engineering Department of Tsinghua University has studied the 
corresponding relationships of Chinese and American emission control technology through 
two points of view, one is emission test in laboratory of being used motor vehicles and the 
other is Chinese and American emission control technology development. Based on this 
study, MOBILE5 is modified with the formula and parameter groups are suitable to Chinese 
emission control level. The subsequent project uses the research result of Tsinghua 
University and has modified MOBILE5 model, combining the real emission situation of 
motor vehicle in Shijiazhuang City. 
5.1.3 Pollutant source intensity of vehicle emission
 
(1) Evaluation factor 
Automobile exhaust gas contains NO
X
CO
HC and other pollutants. According to 
the requirements of JTJ005-
96
“
Specifications for Environment Impact Assessment of Highway
”
(on trial)
 issued by 
Chinese Transportation Ministry, CO and NO
X
are selected as evaluation factor. 
Page  13
12
(2) Pollutant source intensity 
According to the classification of MOBILE5b, automobiles are divided into eight types: 
light-duty gasoline vehicle(LDGV), light-duty gasoline truck 1(LDGT1), light-duty gasoline 
truck 2(LDGT2), heavy-duty gasoline vehicle(HDGV), light-duty diesel vehicle(LDDV), 
light-duty diesel truck(LDDT)heavy-duty diesel vehicle(HDDV)and motor car(MC). 
As there are few light-duty diesel vehicles and light-duty diesel trucks in the municipal 
area of Shijiazhuang City, they are neglected in the calculation. According to the present 
Chinese laws and regulations about automobile pollution control, the automobile emission 
factors of Shijiazhuang City in 2009 and 2015 are calculated. 
5.1.4 Assessment of Influence on the air along both sides of the road 
 
(1) Selection of predicted mode 
Within 100 meters along the two sides of the subsequent project, the average height of 
buildings is 15-20m and there is no closed system even there are some tall buildings at some 
section. Comparatively to say, the road is rather wide and there is no big influence to the 
evenness of entire flow field. The diffusion of pollutants is controlled by prevailing wind and 
air turbulence. These meet the usage conditions of CALINE4 model. 
(2) Selection of weather parameters 
Two weather conditions are selected for environment evaluation prediction
General weather: the most-frequent weather condition in Shijiazhuang, wind speed 1.6m/s, 
stability degree : E
F, wind direction : the regular wind in each reason. 
Unfavorable weather: wind speed 0.5m/s, stability degree : E,F, the vertical direction 
between wind direction and road. 
(3) Predicted content 
caron
Prediction factor
 
select CO
 NO
2
as main pollutants from automobile emission
 
caron
Prediction time
 2009(
operation year), 2015(middle and long term), distribution of daily 
average concentration contribution during winter and summer seasons
 
caron
Prediction sections
 
Ping’an Street(Fangshe Xilu
 
Hepinglu), Zhaolingpu Cloverleaf 
Junction, No rth 2nd ring
 
Hongxing Street Cloverleaf Junction, Zhonghua North 
Street(North 2nd ring
 Beiwaihuan
). 
caron
Prediction scope
 
150 meters from automobile side down along wind direction, 500 meters 
from cloverleaf junction down along wind direction
 
Page  14
13
caron
Prediction category
 
Pollutant concentration along two sides of the road is under the 
conditions of having the project or without the project. 
(4) Prediction results and evaluation 
Ping’an Street(Fangshe Xilu
Hepinglu) 
From the point view of space, the concentration of CO and NO
2
decreases gradually from 
30m to 150m within the prediction scope at one side of 
Ping’an Street; from the point view 
of time, the concentration of CO and NO
2
has the trend of decreasing gradually from 2009 to 
2015. 
In 2009, during heating period, CO concentration 50m further from the edge of motor 
vehicle lane down wind direction will meet the standard, all the NO
2
concentrations within 
the prediction scope exceed the standard; during non-heating period
all the CO 
concentrations 30m further from the edge of motor vehicle lane down wind direction can 
meet the standard, NO
2
concentrations further than 100m meets the standard. Under 
unfavorable conditions, all the CO and NO
2
concentrations within the prediction scope from 
the edge of motor vehicle lane down wind direction exceed the standard.  
In 2015
during heating period, CO concentration 30m further from the edge of motor 
vehicle lane down wind direction will meet the standard, all the NO
2
concentrations further 
than 100m reach the standard; during non-heating period
all the CO concentrations 30m 
further from the edge of motor vehicle lane down wind direction can meet the standard, NO
2
concentrations further than 100m meets the standard. Under bad conditions, all the CO 
concentrations 150m further from the edge of motor vehicle lane down wind direction reach 
the standard, and all the NO
2
concentrations within the prediction scope exceed the standard. 
Zhonghua North Street(North 2nd ring
Beiwaihuan) 
From the point view of space and within the prediction area, the concentration of CO and 
NO
2
decreases gradually from 30m to 150m along Zhonghua North Street; from the point 
view of time, the concentration of CO and NO
2
shows the trend of decreasing gradually from 
2009 to 2015. 
In 2009, during heating period, CO concentration 50m further from the edge of motor 
vehicle lane down wind direction will meet the standard, all the NO
2
concentrations within 
the prediction scope exceed the standard; during non-heating period
the CO concentrations 
30m further from the edge of motor vehicle lane down wind direction can meet the standard, 
NO
2
concentrations further than 100m meets the standard. Under bad conditions, all the CO 
and NO
2
concentrations within the prediction scope from the edge of motor vehicle lane 
Page  15
14
down wind direction exceed the standard. 
In 2015
during heating period and non-heating period, all CO concentrations 30m further 
from the edge of motor vehicle lane down wind direction will meet the standard, and the 
distances of NO
2
meeting the standard are 150m and50m. Under bad conditions, all the NO
2
concentrations down wind direction along the road exceed the standard. 
North 2nd ring-Hongxing Street Cloverleaf Junction 
From the point view of space and within the prediction scope, the concentration of CO and 
NO
2
decreases down the wind direction of North 2nd ring-Hongxing Street Cloverleaf 
junction gradually from 30m to 500m; from the point view of time, the concentration of CO 
and NO
2
shows the trend of decreasing gradually from 2009 to 2015. 
In 2009, during heating period, CO concentration within 100m from the edge of motor 
vehicle lane down wind direction exceeds the standard, all the NO
2
concentrations within the 
prediction scope exceed the standard; during non-heating period
all the CO concentrations 
30m further from the edge of motor vehicle lane down wind direction can meet the standard, 
NO
2
concentrations further than 500m meets the standard. Under bad conditions, all the CO 
and NO
2
concentrations within the prediction scope from the edge of motor vehicle lane 
down wind direction exceed the standard.  
In 2015
during heating period, CO concentration 30m further from the edge of motor 
vehicle lane down wind direction will meet the standard, all the NO
2
concentrations further 
than 500m meet the standard; during non-heating period
all the CO concentrations 30m 
further from the edge of motor vehicle lane down wind direction can meet the standard, NO
2
concentrations further than 150m meets the standard. Under bad conditions and within the 
prediction scope, all the CO and NO
2
concentrations from the edge of motor vehicle lane 
down wind direction exceed the standard. 
Zhaolingpu Cloverleaf Junction 
From the point view of space and within the prediction scope, the concentration of CO and 
NO
2
down the wind direction of North 2nd ring-Hongxing Street Overpass decreases 
gradually from 30m to 500m; from the point view of time, the concentration of CO and NO
2
shows the trend of decreasing from 2009 to 2015. 
In 2009, during heating period, CO concentration further than 150m from the edge of motor 
vehicle lane down wind direction meets the standard, all the NO
2
concentrations further than 
500m meet the standard; during non-heating period
the CO concentrations 30m further 
from the edge of motor vehicle lane down wind direction can meet the standard, NO
2
Page  16
15
concentrations further than 150m meets the standard. Under bad conditions, all the CO and 
NO
2
concentrations within the prediction scope from the edge of motor vehicle lane down 
wind direction exceed the standard.  
In 2015
during heating period, all the CO concentrations 30m further from the edge of 
motor vehicle lane down wind direction will meet the standard, NO
2
concentration further 
than 500m meets the standard; during non-heating period
CO concentration 30m further 
from the edge of motor vehicle lane down wind direction meets the standard, NO
2
concentrations further than 150m meets the standard. Under bad conditions and within the 
prediction scope, all the CO and NO
2
concentrations from the edge of motor vehicle lane 
down wind direction exceed the standard. 
5.2 Impact of noise on the environment
 
5.2.1 Forecast method
 
This evaluation adopts the equivalent noise level in the daytime and equivalent noise level at 
night as the evaluation quantity according to the national standard of GB3096-93 
(Environmental Noise Standard of Urban Area). Under the circumstance that there are 
buildings on the two sides of the road, forecast the equivalent noise level one meter away 
from the first row buildings on the two side of the roads, and judge whether it exceeds the 
standard or not. As for the wide area where there are no buildings now on the two sides of 
the roads, it should be forecast the equivalent noise level within 4~100m from the restriction 
line of construction, providing reference for the development plan of the area on the two 
sides of the roads in the future. 
5.2.2 Basic forecast mode of road traffic noise 
The forecast mode of traffic noise adopts the American (FHWA) mode as the evaluation 
mode. It makes revision combining the specific circumstance of our country, the real 
situation of the roads and referring to Evaluation Criterion on the Environmental Effect of 
Road Construction Item (Practical) of China. 
5.2.3 Determination of basic forecast model parameters
 
(1) Classification standard of large, middle and small vehicles 
The classification standard of large, middle and small vehicles in the forcast model is listed 
in table 7. 
Table 7    classification standard of vehicles 
Vehicle type 
Total mass 
Small (s) 
Below 3.5t 
Page  17
16
Middle (m) 
3.5t
 12t
 
Large (L) 
Above 12t 
Note: large vehicle includes container car, trailer, engineering car and so on. 
(2) Calculation of average speed 
According to the
 
“Evaluation Criterion on the Environmental Effect of Road Construction 
Item (Trying out)”
 
(JTJ005-96), the vehicle speed on the road is forecasted as: 
Calculation formula of average speed of small motor vehicles :Ys=237X
-
s
0.1602
 
Calculation formula of average speed of medium size motor vehicles :Ym=212X
m
-0.1747
 
In the formula, Ys and Ym are the average running speeds of small and medium size motor 
vehicles respectively, km/h. 
Xs and Xm are the traffic quantity of small and medium size motor vehicles per hour in the 
total traffic quantity of the forecast years respectively. quantity/hour. 
The average running speed of large motor vehicles is calculated according to 80% of the 
vehicle speed of medium size motor vehicles. 
The above formula is applied for the design speed of 120km/h in the circumstance of four-
lane road. When the design speed is lower than 120km/h, the average vehicle speed 
decreases successively during the calculation according to the proportion. When the lane 
number is larger or smaller than four, then it is calculated by converting the vehicle flow 
quantity into the flow quantity of four-lane road. The calculation results of the above 
formula are all the vehicle running speeds in the daytime and it is the average vehicle speed 
at night when being reduced by 20%. 
(3) Leq value of various types of vehicles 
According to the research, the relation between average radiation acoustical level of various Chinese 
automobiles at the point of 7.5m and the speed are shown in table 8.  
Table 8 The relation of average radiation acoustical level of different type of vehicles 
and vehicle speed 
Type of vehicle 
Average radiation acoustical level L
Wi
(dB(A)) 
Small vehicle  
59.3+0.23V
s
Middle vehicle 
62.6+0.32V
m
Large vehicle 
77.2+0.18V
l
In the formula: Wi---represents large (l), medium size (m) and small (s) motor 
vehicles 
Page  18
17
Vi---average running speed of all types of motor vehicles 
5.2.4 Prediction result and evaluation
 
(1) When there is a project, the equivalent noise value one meter before the buildings near the 
roads is lower than the one without the item, the reduced value scope is 0.4
 
1.5dB(A), 
which can meet the requirement of 4
th
 standard of GB3096-93. The noise value on all the 
roads involved in the item at night reduces by 0.5
 
0.7dB(A), compared with the one without 
the item, all exceed the standard and the standard exceeding scope is 8.5
 10.5 dB(A)
.
The 
equivalent sound level at climax hour is evidently higher than the equivalent level in the 
daytime. In 2015 on all the roads, the traffic noise one meter before the buildings near the roads 
increases compared with the one in year 2008. Except that the road section of Heping Road-
Huitong Road exceeds the standard by 0.6 dB(A), other roads all reach the standard. All the road 
sections at night exceed the standard with the standard exceeding scope of 10.2
 11.9dB(A)
.
(2) When there is an item, the noise value at the environmental sensitive points in the 
daytime in 2009 reduces by 0.3
 2.6dB(A)
 compared with the one without the item and the 
standard exceeding scope is 0.3
 
1.1 dB(A). The noise value at night reduces by 0.8
 1.
8
dB(A) compared with the one without the item and the standard exceeding scope is 
5.1
 
6.9dB(A). The noise value at the environmental sensitive points in the daytime in 2015 
reduces by 0.1
 2.7B(A)
 compared with the one without the item and the standard exceeding 
scope is 0.7
 
6.1 dB(A). The noise value at night reduces by 1.7
 2.1dB(A)
 compared with 
the one without the item and the standard exceeding scope is 5.2
 
7.1dB(A). 
(3) The forecasted result after the running of the subsequent item shows that although the 
vehicle flow quantity increases, due to the improvement of road status, clear road of running 
and reduction of blowing the whistle, the noise value when there is an item reduces 
compared with the one without the item. Based on the requirement of environmental 
protection of the construction item, since the noise value still exceeds the national standard, 
on the principle of human-oriented, persistent improvement and promoting the old through 
the new one, this report suggests that the following measures be adopted to reduce the noise 
effect to all road sections and sensitive points: strengthening management to road project, 
increasing greening area, setting up sound insulation enclosure at sensitive point on south side 
of Hongxing-North 2nd ring cloverleaf junction, installing double layer sound insulation 
windows at sensitive point and other noise decreasing measures in order to further improve 
the acoustic environment quality at the two sides of the project. 
Page  19
18
5.3 Mitigation measures to environmental impacts 
5.3.1 Mitigation measures to air pollution  
During operation of the project, the air pollution source is the running vehicle on the road. 
As the running vehicle is a flowing source and it is very difficult to get the effect of 
controlling the pollution from tail gas depending on measures on one or several roads and 
bridges, therefore, the controlling measures for this project should combine with local and 
national measures controlling the pollutants from motor vehicle tail gas. And following 
measures are taken to mitigate impact to municipal atmosphere: 
(1) Strengthen road maintenance, keep the road in good operation condition to reduce traffic 
jam; 
(2) Continuously strengthen the construction of municipal automobile test and service 
system; 
(3) Strictly execute the national discharging standard of automobile tail gas, strongly execute 
the systems of yearly test, road check and randomly check to the vehicles being used; 
reinforce the vehicle management to control the discharged tail gas amount of automobile; 
(4) Restrict tractors, loaded diesel vehicles which run on the roads in municipal area; 
(5) Encourage municipal buses, taxis to use compressed natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, 
electricity and other clean energy. The new vehicles which use clean energy and discharged 
tail gas meet the discharging standard of next stage and the being used vehicles which use 
clean energy and discharged tail gas excels the present discharging standard are exempted 
from tail gas random test. 
(6) Strengthen the greening work along the sides, plant some trees which can absorb 
CO
 NO
X
and other hazardous gases in order to reduce the polluted area by traffic. 
5.3.2 Mitigation measures to the impact of acoustic environment 
In order to decrease the noise environmental impact along the road, control pollution and 
reduce noise hazard, Shijiazhuang Municipal Traffic Project has taken necessary protection 
measures and means, especially at the section where has residents. In order to protect mass
’s 
environment right and interest, effective measures have been taken to protect the acoustic 
environment, to minimize noise impacts and to reach double purposes of improving traffic 
and not influencing the environment. 
Page  20
19
(1) Reduce noise source radiation 
Execute control of vehicle entering municipal area in the night. Limit over speed driving 
at sensitive section at night. 
Strengthen the management of blowing horns. Set up No Horn indication plates at the two 
sides of schools and hospitals.  
(2) Strengthen the maintenance and management of municipal roads, repair the damaged 
road surface in time, restrict over speed and over load, restrict the ex-large vehicle to run on 
viaduct. 
(3) Take noise reducing measures at the sensitive points where exceed the acoustical 
environmental standard.  
For the residential area at south side of Hongxing Street-North 2nd ring Cloverleaf Junction, 
as the location of traffic noise source is higher, the traffic noise will influence the inhabitants 
in Airplane Factory Residential Area south of cloverleaf junction. After consulting with and 
adopting their recommendations, at the two sides of road with populous inhabitants, noise 
insulation enclosures are s
et up and the enclosures are designed as shape of “
”
using 
transparent plate. The overall length is 240m and the height is 2.2m. 
(4) Strengthen greening measures along two sides of the road and plant as more tall arbors as 
possible to alleviate the impacts. 
During project operation
 
as the traffic volume increases on newly built roads, the noise 
impact on surrounding environment increases and the automobile tail gas pollutes the air 
more. After taking treatment measures, the impacts will be controlled in a certain degree and 
will not influence the environment. From the overall analysis, the municipal air quality will 
turn better with the traffic improvement. Aiming at that, some sectional sensitive points 
might be affected during the operation, the noise impact will be eliminated through installing 
noise insulation enclosure and windows, the environment will be better than present. 
5.3.3 Compensation measures to eco-environment 
(1) The trees, flowers and grass which must be removed will be transplanted to other places, 
normally they will be transplanted in the same area and guaranteed to be alive. Plant trees 
and grass at crossings and other areas, set parterre and lawn and plant evergreen ornamentals 
at the spaces near buildings. The reduced greenbelt will be recovered at other areas within 
the City and the overall green area will be compensated. 
Page  21
20
(2) Properly set up sculptures, greenbelt, dustbin, chairs at crossings, two sides of the road 
and the spaces between buildings, which will not only improve the municipal environment, 
beautify the road sight but also raise the taste of the City, increase the affinity of the city and 
provide esplanade areas to inhabitants. 
(3) The design of Zhaolingpu Cloverleaf Junction and North 2nd ring-Hongxing Street 
Viaduct should suit the surrounding structure characters and show the overall characteristics 
of Shijiazhuang City. Using the spaces of cloverleaf junction and viaduct to carry out 
vertical greening and sectional point greening. 
(4) The subsequent project will continuously carry out and perfect the greening along two 
side of the road. The selected categories of trees will mainly suit local condition and show 
the variety of plant category.  
6. Environment management plan 
 
6.1 Environment management of project construction 
In order to efficiently control the environmental impacts during construction, the bidder must 
promise civilized construction during the bidding stage and meet the following requirements: 
(1) The construction and main routes of material transportation will be watered periodically 
in no rain and droughty days to prevent raising dust and reduce air pollution, especially to 
the place near residential area
(2) Clear up and transfer the garbage of building dismantling and the garbage of road 
construction in time. Set enclosing net at working site and carry out necessary spraying in 
order to prevent the raised dust from polluting the surrounding
(3) Immediately treat, clear up and transfer the waste soil in order to decrease area 
occupation, prevent raised dust pollution and reduce the influence on the inhabitants
(4) Reasonably arrange working time. Strictly control the loud noise operations which 
should be arranged between 6:00
12:00 and 14:00
22:00. If a continuous noisy operation 
is necessary, the affected public should be apprised in advance and be compensated
(5) Strengthen environmental supervision and monitoring to night construction. Normally, it 
is prohibited to construct from 22:00 to 6:00 in the next day except those in need. All 
construction operations will be forbidden from 22:00 to 6:00 in the next day between May 
10 and June 9 when the university entrance examination is going on
Page  22
21
(6) Reasonably arrange construction machinery, locate the construction machinery with loud 
noise and big impact as far as possible to the sensitive point
(7) Scientifically control the construction plan, avoid simultaneous construction of same 
direction and adverse roads to reduce the impact on traffic during construction
(8) Strictly resume the sight according to the design and do a good job on road side greening 
and greenbelt construction
(9) Do good work on propaganda to residents. With the limitation of technical condition and 
construction environment, the environmental pollution brought by the construction is not 
avoidable, therefore, it is necessary to propagandize to the inhabitants in affected areas along 
the line in order to promote the mental enduring ability to disadvantageous impacts, to obtain 
understanding, overcome the tentative difficulties and to cooperate with the contractor to 
fulfill the construction smoothly. 
6.2 Environment monitoring and report 
In the past few years, Shijiazhuang Traffic Project has achieved very good efficiency to 
environment management and obtained successful experiences. The environment 
management of subsequent project during construction will be brought into the environment 
management of entire project. During the construction, monitoring of noise and the raised 
dust to present situation at construction site will be carried out. The noise will be monitored 
continuously for two days at 10:00 and 22:00. The raised dust will be monitored 
continuously for three days, setting two sampling points and sampling 12 hours everyday. At 
the same time, the environment management executive organization will randomly visit the 
public and inspect the construction sites. The environment management of subsequent 
project will be compiled into a separate environmental supervision report. 
7. Safety assurance policy
 
According to the relevant rules of World Bank, Shijiazhuang City Municipal Traffic Project 
Office and Assessment Unit have checked and confirmed the safety assurance policy item 
by item and the results are in table 9.  
Table 9 Safety assurance policy filtering tabl
H
No.
Checking content 
Confirming results  
1
Evaluation on 
environment impact 
Relevant environmental impact assessment has been 
approved by Shijiazhuang Environment Protection Bureau. 
2
Natural habitat 
All the areas referred in the project are located at city zone, 
and natural habitat isn
’t involved in. 
Page  23
22
3
Transference work 
After investigation, no transference work is involved in the 
project.
 
4
Cultural relic and 
heritage  
After investigation, no cultural relic is involved in this 
project. 
5
Disputing area 
There is no international disputing area. 
6
Safety of dam 
There is no large-scale dam in the range of Shijiazhuang 
Municipal traffic Project. 
7
International water area
There is no international water area. 
8
Forest  
All the areas involved in the project is located at city zone, 
and there is no natural forest and manual forest. 
9
Pesticide management 
This project does not involve pesticide and herbicide during 
the construction and operation period. 
8. Conclusion
 
The routes and orientations of the Subsequent Project of Shijiazhuang Municipal Traffic 
Project loaning from World Bank basically accord with the entire planning of Shijiazhuang 
City, and meet the need of municipal construction and development. The project has taken 
rather perfect environmental protection measures and the construction will not produce 
obvious impacts on ambient environment. Therefore, from the point view of environmental 
protection, this project is feasible.
Page  24
23
