Page  1
Loan From World Bank
 
Environmental Impact Assessment 
on 
Public Transport Overhaul Plant Project 
of  
Shijizhuang Municipal Traffic Project 
 
(Simplified Edition) 
 
Construction Unit: 
Shijiazhuang Municipal Traffic Project Office
 
Assessment Unit: 
Hebei University of Science and Technology 
 
E409 
V5 
Page  2
1
1. Origin of Project
 
The Public Traffic Overhaul Plant Project is an important content of improving Shijiazhuang 
urban public traffic which is involved in the public traffic subentry of Municipal Transport 
Project of Shijiazhuang loaning from World Bank. The construction of the item has great 
significance to the implement of urban traffic priority and the improvement of urban traffic 
environment. 
The initial proposed site of public traffic overhaul plant is located in northwest of 
Shijiazhuang City
’s No.2 Public Traffic Company, which is at the northeast part of 
Zhonghua North Street and Zhaotuo Road junction, and the environment assessment report 
has been approved by Shijiazhuang Environment Protection Bureau, but the residential area 
around No.2 Public Traffic Company is near to the site, considering that the site is located at 
a
sensitive area, and may have a certain limit to the further development, after several times’ 
discussion, we decide to alter the site to the location where west to No. 5 Public Traffic 
Company, southeast to crossing of south 2
nd
 ring and Yuxiang Road, southeast of 
Shijiazhuang City. 
The selected site is a land for public establishment that defined in 
Shijiazhuang Municipal 
General Plan
 (2004-2020), the property right belongs to public transport parent company, 
and the project will not levy land furthermore. On the north of the project is a green area of 
50m, on the north side of the isolation area is south 2
nd
 ring, on the west is the lifting station 
of municipal drainage office, on the south is Nanjiao long-distance passenger transport 
station, and on the east is No. 5 Public Traffic Company, there is no environment sensitive 
point around the project. 
2. Assessment Standards
 
The Assessment Standards adopted China’s domestic relevant Environmental Quality 
Standards and the Pollutants Discharge Standards. The selected standard has already been 
confirmed by Shijiazhuang Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau. 
3. Main Construction Content and Scale of the Project
 
The overhaul workshop is designed with 9 lines overhaul tunnel for engine chassis, and 11 
III level maintaining positions. Its annual production capacity is 800 sets. The overhaul 
workshop has sections and procedures of engine, chassis, sheet metal, spray-painting, 
Page  3
2
machine processing, wire overhaul and etc, and assists with related mechanical, maintaining, 
and repair equipments.  
The land area of the plant is nearly 13553m
2
,
green area is 2114m
2
,
and the total construction 
area is 9950.52m
2
,
among which three floors
’
overhaul workshops is totally 9870m
2
,
with 
3316.84m
2
for each floor. 
4. Construction Impact on Environment and Mitigation Measures
 
4.1 Impact on Water and Mitigation Measures 
The sewage of overhaul plant is mainly from washing vehicles in washing house, washing 
engine and ground in overhaul workshop, and living sewage in general building. The total 
sewage discharging amount is 29.6m
3
/d. Main pollutants in sewage are COD, SS, NH
3
-N, 
petroleum and etc. The sewage of overhaul workshop which is treated by “oil isolation + oil 
and water separator” technic and the living sewage which is treated in septic tank will be 
drained into municipal sewage pipeline, after joining with other sewage, they will be get 
further treatment in Qiaodong Sewage Treatment Plant.  
The draining sewage of this project conforms to the Class II of 
General Standard of Sewage 
Drainage
 
GB8978—1996
which is listed in table 4, and satisfies the enter water quality 
requirement of Shijiazhuang Qiaodong Sewage Treatment Plant. Because the drainage 
amount of this project is small and water quality is simple, it has little influence on the 
treatment system of Shijiazhuang Qiaodong Sewage Treatment Plant, besides that, the 
sewage will not drain to ground surface water body directly, therefore, it has little impact on 
ground surface water environment. 
The main influence factor of ground water pollution is running, emitting, dropping, and 
leaking water in the production period. If the anti-seepage measure is not appropriate, the 
pollutant in sewage will seep into the soil, and has impact on groundwater, hereby, the 
environmental assessment unit suggests that the project should adopt the following measures 
to demolish the impact on ground water environment. 
(1) All the ground in workshop adopts anti-seepage concrete lift.  
(2) The sewage treatment structure such as separation tank and septic tank should do the 
anti-seepage treatment. 
(3) All the other areas (except greening land) of overhaul workshop shall be hardened. 
After using the above measures, it can effectively avoid the sewage impact on groundwater. 
Page  4
3
4.2 Impact on Sound Environment and Mitigation Measures
\03
After the completion of this project, the main noise sources are machine tool noise and noise of 
testing engine in testing section, the noise value can reach to 70
96dB(A). The proposed 
project will adopt sound isolation, elimination and other measures to reduce the impact on 
sound environment, through forecasting, the noise contribution value of four boundaries 
during daytime of operation period is between 46.8- 48.2dB(A), which is very low and can 
satisfy the Class I standard requirements of 
Standard of Noise at Boundary of Industrial 
Enterprises 
(GB12348-90). The project is located at southeast of crossing of south 2
nd
 ring 
and Yuxiang Road, and west of No. 5 Public Traffic Company, there is 50m green area on 
the north side of the site; on the south is the Nanjiao long-distance passenger transport 
station where the noise is much higher than the contribution value of the project. Therefore, 
the project has little impact on ambient environment. 
4.3 Impact on Air Environment and Mitigation Measures
\03
The main air pollutant during operation period is the exhaust gas in the procedure of spray-
paint drying and dust in demolishing spray-paint and rust. 
The project will adopt environmental protection watercraft vehicle lacquer, and VOC content 
in the lacquer is only 2%
15%, about 1/3 of common solvent lacquer. The spray-paint 
drying procedure is settled at the south side of first floor of overhaul workshop, which has 
two spray-paint drying houses, and the underground vent-pipe on the two sides of each 
spray-paint drying house, it is connected with the induced draught fan on the top of building. 
In order to reduce the amount of emitting volatility solvent, it is set with active carbon 
adsorption instrument to give further cleaning treatment to the spray-paint drying procedure, 
the adsorption rate of active carbon is more than 85%, and after adsorption of the exhaust 
gas by active carbon, it will be emitted through a 15m high letting pipe, quite little amount of 
VOC is let in air, which can satisfy the requirement of malodor pollutant standard in Table 2 
of 
Letting Standard of Malodor Pollutant
 (GB14554-93); the active carbon will be 
reclaimed by professional department; therefore, the paint exhaust gas of this project has 
little impact on around environment. 
Demolishing paint and rust of this project adopts German FESTO dustless grind system, the 
professional Germany FESTO mobile dustless grind machine take the mobile cleaner as 
center to collect dust during grinding into the cleaner, all the function is gathered in the soft 
pipe, it adopts coupling pipe head, which makes the grinding much more flexible, and adopts 
original central hole grinding mat design, utilizes the convection principle to strengthen the 
Page  5
4
adsorption effect. It is an advanced technology that complies with requirement of 
environmental protection. Instead of  the conventional grinding technic,this technology not 
only improves working efficiency and the spray-paint quality on object surface, but also 
reduces the amount of dust. While improving the working environment of workers, the 
amount of pollutant that emitted to the air decreased. Meanwhile, the project also sets a suit 
of spray dust reducing system in workshop. The system adopts high effective blowgun that 
arouse the high pressure stream into fog, which can increase humidity of workshop and then 
get the effect on reducing dust. When operating, the workers shall wear dustproof respirator 
to demolish the impact on health from demolishing paint and rust to the maximum. 
Therefore, demolishing paint and rust has little impact on environment. 
4.4 Solid Waste
\03
The solid waste of this project is mainly from living garbage of personnel, little oiliness 
cotton yarn, scrap from demolishing paint and rust, waste oil and waste active carbon which 
are reclaimed from oil and water separator of repair workshop. The living garbage amount is 
36 t/a, and the site will set up fixed dustbin to collect living garbage, which will be reclaimed 
by municipal environmental protection department; the amount of oiliness cotton yarn is 
0.20t/a, waste oil reclaimed in oil and water separator is 0.07t/a, the scrap from demolishing 
paint and rust is 1.6t/a, and waste active carbon is 0.2t/a, which will be reclaimed by 
professional department after collection. All the solid waste during the project running 
period will be disposed appropriately, and will not arouse second pollution to the 
environment. 
5. Environmental Protection Plan of the Project
 
5.1 Environment management during the construction period
\03
In order to effectively control environmental pollution during construction period, the project 
shall not only manage the construction quality and progress, but also  make supervision on 
the civilized level of construction, implementation of mitigation measures to environmental 
impact, and the implementation of contract which is concerned about environmental 
protection. 
(1) To water the construction site and main transportation roads on dry days without rain 
termly, in order to avoid dust rising, and reduce the air pollution, especially on the position 
that near to residential area; 
(2) Clean and move the construction garbage in time, give necessary insufflations measures 
Page  6
5
at the site, to reduce the impact of dust rising on around environment; 
(3) The excavated earth of the site shall be disposed in time, to reduce land occupy, avoid 
dust pollution, and improve the construction environment; 
(4) Arrange working time in reason, for the working with big noise should be controlled in 
6
00
12
00
14
00
22
00; 
(5) Strengthen the supervising and inspection of night work, generally speaking, all the 
construction should be stopped during 22
00
6
00 except for some projects that must be 
constructed at night,; 
(6) Dispatching the construction program scientifically to reduce the impact on traffic during 
night working time; 
(7) When temporarily storing soil, stone and construction machines at land, it should pay 
attention to protect the trees and green areas of the site; 
(8) Appropriately dispose the living garbage and sewage of construction personnel, and they 
cannot be drained directly. The living sewage should drain to municipal sewage pipeline, and 
the living garbage should be cleaned in time to reduce mosquitoes and flies. 
5.2 Environment Management in Operation Period
\03
To avoid and treat the environment pollution during operation after project completion, the 
environment management of the project should be brought into the original municipal traffic 
project management system, and people should know the responsibilities of management 
organization clearly. It should contain the following aspects: 
(1) To organize to carry out laws, regulations, policies on environment protection of state, 
Hebei Province, Shijiazhuang City and other trade management department, and assist with 
local environment department to do well the environment management works of this project. 
(2) To implement every kind of environment managing system of upper charging 
department, and formulate relevant managing program to carry out. 
(3) Strengthen the ground maintaining and daily clean of overhaul plant to reduce dust and 
second dust rising. 
(4) To check, repair, and maintain pollution treatment instrument, ensure its normal running, 
assure all the pollutant can let on standard steadily in the long-term, and exam the effect of 
environment protection measures. 
Page  7
6
6. Policy for safety guarantee
 
According to relevant regulation of World Bank, the implementation of the project shall 
notice the profits of public, therefore, Shijiazhuang Traffic Project Office and assessment 
unit have checked and confirmed the policy for safety guarantee in accordance with relevant 
articles on environment documents of World Bank. See results on Table 1. 
Table 1 Screen sheet of safety ensure policy 
No. 
Checking content 
Confirming results  
1
Evaluation on 
environment impact 
Relevant (environment impact has been approved by Shijiazhuang 
Environment Protection Bureau). 
2
Natural habitat 
All the areas involved in the project are located at city zone, and not 
refer to natural habitat. 
3
Transference work 
No transference work is involved in the project. 
4
Cultural relic and heritage 
After investigation, no cultural relic is involved in this project. 
5
Disputing area 
There is no international disputing area. 
6
Safety of dam 
There is no dam in the range of shijiazhuang Municipal traffic 
Project. 
7
International water area 
There is no international water area. 
8
Forest  
All the areas involved in the project is located at city zone, and there 
is no natural forest and manual forest. 
9
Pesticide management 
This project will not involve pesticide and herbicide during the 
construction and operation period. 
7. Conclusion 
 
The selected site of the Public Traffic Overhaul Plant Project of Shijiazhuang Municipal 
Traffic Project loaning from World Bank complies with the requirements of Shijiazhuang 
municipal general plan. It adopts perfect environmental protection and treatment measures to 
ensure that all the pollutants emission are in accordance with standards. The implement of 
the project has little effect on ambient environment.  Besides that, this project will utilize the 
existing vacant space of the Public Transport Company, and not levy new land, which can 
make the existing land resource arranged reasonably. Therefore, From the point view of 
environmental protection, the construction of this item is feasible.
Page  8
7
