Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4600 CHA
Project Agreement
(Shijiazhuang Urban Transport Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MUNICIPALITY OF SHIJIAZHUANG
Dated October 29, 2001 
LOAN NUMBER 4600 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 29, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and MUNICIPALITY OF SHIJIAZHUANG (Shijiazhuang).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People’s 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount equal to one hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
Shijiazhuang agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in 
this Agreement; and
WHEREAS  Shijiazhuang, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) Shijiazhuang declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, management, financial, engineering and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Shijiazhuang shall otherwise agree, Shijiazhuang shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Shijiazhuang shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Shijiazhuang shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and Shijiazhuang, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Shijiazhuang on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Shijiazhuang shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan.
(b)
Shijiazhuang shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Shijiazhuang of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Shijiazhuang shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of Shijiazhuang responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof. 
(b)
Shijiazhuang shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
Page  3
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Shijiazhuang 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Shijiazhuang thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. Deliveries made by facsimile shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses 
so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(1-202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Shijiazhuang:
People’s Government of Shijiazhuang
216 Zhongshan Road
Shijiazhuang 050011, Hebei Province
People’s Republic of China
Facsimile:
(86-311) 681 
65 40
Page  4
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Shijiazhuang 
may be taken or executed by the Mayor or a Vice Mayor of Shijiazhuang or such other 
person or persons as said Mayor or Vice Mayor shall designate in writing, and said 
Mayor or Vice Mayor shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and 
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
MUNICIPALITY OF SHIJIAZHUANG
By /s/ Wang Jinze
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
Page  5
estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more each.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors (other than goods manufactured in the Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower and works carried out by contractors from either of said regions).
(d)
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
(e)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, and (b) works estimated to cost 
less than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$42,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works for street junction channelization, estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,400,000 
equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis 
of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
Page  6
With respect to each contract for (a) works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,000,000 or more, and (b) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $280,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  7
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.
Project Management and Coordination
1.
Shijiazhuang shall maintain throughout the period of implementation of the 
Project: (a) the Municipal Project Leading Group, with terms of reference acceptable 
to the Bank, to provide overall guidance in the implementation of the Project and 
coordination among all municipal agencies and entities responsible for various aspects 
of urban transport; and (b) the Shijiazhuang Urban Transport Project Office, with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, headed by a qualified and experienced 
manager and assisted by competent staff in adequate number, and provided with adequate 
resources, to manage the implementation of the Project, including procurement and 
financial management activities, implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan, and 
monitoring of implementation activities.
2.
Shijiazhuang shall, throughout the period of implementation of the Project, 
ensure that the Municipal Project Leading Group maintain close coordination with the 
Provincial Project Leading Group established by Hebei.
3.
Shijiazhuang shall engage and, throughout the period of implementation of the 
Project, maintain a team of construction supervision experts whose qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, 
to assist Shijiazhuang in the supervision of the Project.
4.
To strengthen the financial management of the Project, Shijiazhuang shall (a) 
prepare and put into effect a financial management manual satisfactory to the Bank, 
and (b) ensure that appropriate training is provided to the personnel of all municipal 
agencies responsible for the implementation of the Project or any part thereof in the 
application of said manual.
B.
Project Implementation 
1.
Shijiazhuang shall carry out the Environmental Management Plan in a manner 
designed to ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with sound 
environmental practices and standards.
2.
Shijiazhuang shall carry out the Resettlement Action Plan in a manner designed 
to: (a) minimize to the extent possible any involuntary loss by persons of shelter, 
productive assets or access to productive assets, or of income or means of livelihood, 
temporarily or permanently; and (b) maintain or improve the living standards and 
production levels of all persons who suffer such involuntary loss as a result of any 
works to be carried out under the Project. 
3.
Shijiazhuang shall: (a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it 
to monitor and evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the 
implementation of the Environmental Management Plan and the Resettlement Action Plan 
and the achievement of their respective objectives, including the engagement of 
experienced and qualified independent monitoring agencies acceptable to the Bank; (b) 
include the results of such monitoring and evaluation activities in each report to be 
prepared by it and furnished to the Bank pursuant to paragraph C (2) of this Schedule, 
together with any revisions proposed to be introduced into such plans in order to 
Page  8
achieve their respective objectives; and (c) introduce such revisions into such plans 
as shall have been agreed with the Bank.
4.
In respect of Part B of the Project, for purposes of improving traffic 
management and enhancing traffic safety, Shijiazhuang shall:
(a)
by September 30, 2002, complete the first phase of its program of traffic 
management works in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
(i) carry out, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, the 
parking management and control study included in Part B.3 (b) of the Project, and 
complete the same not later than December 31, 2002; (ii) promptly upon completion of 
such study, furnish to the Bank a copy thereof for its review and comments; and (iii) 
thereafter, implement the recommendations of said study, taking into consideration the 
Bank’s view thereon;
(c)
(i) carry out, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, the road 
safety study included in Part B.3 (c) of the Project, and complete the same not later 
than June 30, 2003; (ii) promptly upon completion of such study, furnish to the Bank a 
copy thereof for its review and comments; and (iii) thereafter, implement the 
recommendations of said study taking into consideration the Bank’s view thereon; and
(d)
(i) carry out, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, a study 
on the establishment of an Area Traffic Control System, including institutional 
arrangements necessary to implement and manage said system, and complete the same not 
later than March 31, 2002; (ii) promptly upon completion of such study, furnish to the 
Bank a copy thereof for its review and comment; and (iii) thereafter, implement the 
recommendations of said study, taking into consideration the Bank’s view thereon, and 
establish the institutional arrangement for the management of the Area Traffic Control 
System by no later than December 31, 2002.
5.
In respect of Part C of the Project, for purposes of improving the provision of 
public transport services, Shijiazhuang shall:
(a)
(i) carry out, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, a study 
on the establishment of a bus priority facility along Zongshan Road, and complete the 
same not later than June 30, 2002; (ii) promptly upon completion of such study, 
furnish to the Bank a copy thereof for its review and comments; and (iii) thereafter, 
implement the recommendations of said study, taking into consideration the Bank’s view 
thereon, and establish the Zhongshan Road bus priority facility by no later than March 
31, 2003;
(b)
(i) carry out, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, a bus 
route development and priority study included in Part C.2, and complete the same not 
later than June 30, 2003; (ii) promptly upon completion of such study, furnish to the 
Bank a copy thereof for its review and comments; and (iii) thereafter, implement the 
recommendations of said study taking into consideration the Bank’s view thereon;
(c)
(i) undertake a review of the regulatory and operational functions of the 
Shijiazhuang Public Transport Company in regard to bus transport with a view to 
formulating by no later than June 30, 2002 plans for the separation of said functions; 
(ii) promptly upon completion of such plans, furnish to the Bank a copy thereof for 
its review and comments; and (iii) thereafter, take all necessary action to implement 
the recommendations of said plans, taking into consideration the Bank’s view thereon; 
and
(d)
(i) complete a draft regulatory framework for the franchising of bus 
operations and complete the same not later than June 30, 2002; (ii) promptly upon 
completion of such framework, furnish to the Bank a copy thereof for its review and 
comments; and (iii) thereafter, take all necessary actions to establish said 
regulatory framework, taking into consideration the Bank’s view thereon.
6.
In respect of Part D of the Project, for purposes of improving the maintenance 
of the road system, Shijiazhuang shall: (a) carry out, under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank, a road maintenance study, and complete the same not later than 
June 30, 2002; (b) promptly upon completion of such study, furnish to the Bank a copy 
Page  9
thereof for its review and comments; and (c) thereafter, implement the recommendations 
of said study, taking into consideration the Bank’s view thereon.
C.
Monitoring and Reporting
1.
Shijiazhuang shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to 
the Bank the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof.
2.
Shijiazhuang shall
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, quarterly progress reports, not later than January 31, April 
30, July 31, and October 31 in each calendar year, commencing October 31, 2001, said 
reports to:
(a)
summarize the results of such monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph C (1) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the preceding calendar quarter (or in the case of the last 
such report furnished for each calendar year, during the preceding four calendar 
quarters);
(b)
set forth physical and financial progress in the implementation of the 
Project, both cumulatively and in respect of the period under review; and
(c)
set out any additional measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date. 
3.
After furnishing each such report, Shijiazhuang shall review the same with the 
Borrower and the Bank and, thereafter, promptly take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views 
on the matter.
