Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4600 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Shijiazhuang Urban Transport Project)
between
PEOPLES’ REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 29, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4600 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 29, 2001, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Municipality of Shijiazhuang 
(Shijiazhuang) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan) available to Shijiazhuang through Hebei Province, as set forth in 
this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Shijiazhuang 
(the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Affected Persons" means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) 
right, title, or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and 
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily 
or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat 
adversely affected; and "Affected Person" means any of the Affected Persons.
(b)
"Category" means a category of items as set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(c)
"Environmental Management Plan" and "EMP" mean the environmental 
management plan for the Project dated November 2000, as the same may be revised from 
time to time with the prior concurrence of the Bank.
(d)
"Hebei" means the Borrower’s Province of Hebei, and any successor 
thereto.
(e)
"Municipal Project Leading Group" means the inter-agency group 
established and maintained by Shijiazhuang in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph A (1) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
(f)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and Shijiazhuang 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(g)
"Provincial Project Leading Group" means the inter-agency group 
established and maintained by Hebei to provide overall guidance in the implementation 
of the Project and coordination among the national, provincial and municipal 
authorities in respect of the Project, and referred to in paragraph A (2) of Schedule 
2 to the Project Agreement.
(h)
"Resettlement Action Plan" and "RAP" mean the Resettlement Action Plan 
for the Project, dated January 2001, as the same may be revised from time to time with 
the prior concurrence of the Bank.
(i)
"Shijiazhuang" means the Municipality of Shijiazhuang, capital of Hebei 
Province, and any successor thereto.
(j)
"Shijiazhuang Public Transport Company" means the company established in 
August 1956 and wholly-owned by Shijiazhuang, and currently charged with both 
regulatory and operational responsibilities over public transport services in the 
city.
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to Shijiazhuang.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
Page  4
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause Shijiazhuang to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of 
Shijiazhuang therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including 
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable Shijiazhuang to perform such obligations, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall make the 
proceeds of the Loan available to Shijiazhuang, through Hebei Province, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which shall include the 
following:
(i)
the principal amount so made available to Shijiazhuang shall be 
the equivalent in terms of Dollars (determined as of the date, or 
respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment 
out of the Special Account, as the case may be) of the value of 
the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of 
the cost of items required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, and shall be recovered by the 
Borrower in Dollars (the Loan Amount);
(ii)
the Borrower shall recover the Loan Amount from Shijiazhuang in 
semi-annual installments over a period of 20 years, inclusive of a 
grace period of 5 years;
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge interest on the Loan Amount withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate which shall not 
exceed the rate payable by the Borrower from time to time pursuant 
to Section 2.06 of this Agreement; and
(iv)
the Borrower shall charge: (A) a commitment fee on the principal 
amount of the Loan so made available and not withdrawn from time 
to time at a rate which shall not exceed three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum; and (B) an additional fee in an 
amount equal to the amount payable by the Borrower pursuant to 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Page  5
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Shijiazhuang pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing standards, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank may from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Shijiazhuang shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Project Agreement;
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Shijiazhuang will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Page  6
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by Shijiazhuang, and is legally binding upon Shijiazhuang 
in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
(86-10) 68 55 11 
25
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(1-202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Ms. Zou Jiayi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Page  7
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Category
Amount of the
% of
Loan Allocated
 Expenditures
(Expressed in
to be Financed
Dollars)
(1)
Works
   76,600,000
49%
(2)
Goods
   11,200,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,                       
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost) 
and 75% of local 
expenditures 
for 
other items procured 
locally 
(3)
Consultants’ services
    2,200,000
100%
and training
(4) 
Fee
    1,000,000
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
    9,000,000
TOTAL
100,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from said region, and expenditures in the 
currency of the Macau Special Administrative Region of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $6,000,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 30, 2000.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than $200,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than 
$2,000,000 equivalent each; (c) consultants’ services under contracts awarded to firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (d) consultants’ services under contracts 
awarded to individuals costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (e) training, 
Page  8
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (d) consultants’ services under contracts 
awarded to individuals costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (e) training, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Municipality of Shijiazhuang of 
the Borrower to develop an efficient and environmentally sustainable urban transport 
system through the: (i) development of a more complete and efficient road network; 
(ii) improvement in the efficiency and safety of the road system for all modes of 
transport; (iii) development of stronger and more effective public transport services; 
(iv) improvement of road maintenance activities; (v) promotion of environmental 
protection and improvement activities; and (vi) strengthening of institutional 
capacity and integration within the urban transport sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Development of Road Infrastructure
Carrying out of a program of road infrastructure development within 
Shijiazhuang, consisting of:
1.
Construction of new road segments, and upgrading and widening of existing roads, 
over approximately 9 street sections and 25 kilometers (km), including provision for 
bicycle-only lanes and pedestrian side-walks;
2.
Construction of approximately 5 km of new railway overpasses and underpasses, 
including passageway for bicycles; 
3.
Construction of approximately 3 km of bridges and interchanges; and
4.
Installation of road markings, street lighting, surface drainage, noise barriers 
and greening works in connection with the road construction and improvement.
Part B:
Traffic Management and Safety
Carrying out of the following programs to enhance traffic management and improve 
safety:
1.
Improvement of the bicycle road system through the construction of approximately 
2 km of new bicycle-only roads, in addition to the segregated bicycle passageways 
provided under Part A above;
2.
Improvement of the pedestrian walkway system through the construction of 
pedestrian overpasses in addition to the sidewalks provided under Part A above, and 
the removal of other obstacles to pedestrian traffic on the sidewalks.
3.
(a)
Installation of traffic signals, road markings, and signs, area traffic 
control system and junction channelizations; (b) improvement of the vehicle parking 
system; (c) undertaking of a study of road safety and accident blackspot analysis and 
establishment of a traffic accident data management system; (d) strengthening of road 
user education and enforcement of road safety regulations; and (e) strengthening of 
institutional capacity for traffic management planning, design and operations.
Part C:
Public Transport
Carrying out of a program to improve the provision of public transport services, 
consisting of:
1.
(a) Construction 5 new bus terminals, including passenger shelters and 
Page  9
1.
(a) Construction 5 new bus terminals, including passenger shelters and 
administrative facilities, and improvement of the existing bus terminal at the railway 
station; (b) improvement of bus stops, including shelters, signs and markings; and (c) 
construction of two bus depots on the second ring road and related parking facilities, 
and provision of equipment for bus repairs and maintenance.
2.
Undertaking of a bus priority development study, and implementation of a pilot 
bus priority lane.
Part D:
Road Maintenance
Carrying out of a program to improve road maintenance, consisting of:
1.
Implementation of a program of maintenance of the most heavily damaged city 
roads; and
2.
Improvement of the road maintenance management system through the provision of 
equipment and the installation of a pavement management system.
Part E:
Resettlement and Environmental Protection
1.
Carrying out of a resettlement program designed to maintain or improve the 
living standards and productive levels of all Affected Persons.
2.
Carrying out of an environmental management plan for the Project to ensure that 
the Project is implemented in an environmentally sound manner.
3.
Implementation of a vehicle emission control program.
Part F:
Institutional Strengthening 
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the capabilities of the institutions and 
agencies responsible for urban transport planning and management, including: (a) the 
provision of training and equipment; (b) the undertaking of studies in urban road 
network planning, parking planning, road safety, road maintenance planning and 
institutional strengthening, and emission control strategy; and (c) the development of 
bus franchising regulations.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)* 
November 15, 2006
1,950,000
May 15, 2007
2,015,000
November 15, 2007
2,085,000
May 15, 2008
2,160,000
November 15, 2008
2,235,000
May 15, 2009
2,310,000
November 15, 2009
2,390,000
May 15, 2010
2,475,000
November 15, 2010
2,560,000
May 15, 2011
2,645,000
November 15, 2011
2,740,000
May 15, 2012
2,835,000
November 15, 2012
2,930,000
May 15, 2013
3,035,000
November 15, 2013
3,140,000
May 15, 2014
3,250,000
Page  10
November 15, 2014
3,360,000
May 15, 2015
3,475,000
November 15, 2015
3,595,000
May 15, 2016
3,720,000
November 15, 2016
3,850,000
May 15, 2017
3,985,000
November 15, 2017
4,120,000
May 15, 2018
4,265,000
November 15, 2018
4,415,000
May 15, 2019
4,565,000
November15, 2019
4,725,000
May 15, 2020
4,885,000
November 15, 2020
5,055,000
May 15, 2021
5,230,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$4,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $30,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  11
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
Page  12
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
