                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00001013




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IBRD-46000)




                                       ON A

                                      LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION



                                     TO THE

                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                      FOR A

                 SHIJIAZHUANG URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT




                                   June 29, 2009




Transport, Energy and Mining Sector Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective March 2009)

           Currency Unit = Renminbi (RMB)
                   1.00 = US$ 0.146
                 US$ 1.00 = RMB 6.84

                    FISCAL YEAR
                January 1 ­ December 31

        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
EMO     Environmental Sub-component Management Office
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
EO      Evaluation Office
ER      Economic Return
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GEF     Global Environment Facility
IP      Implementation Performance
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
NDRC    National Development and Reform Commission
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PO      Project Office
QAE     Quality at Entry
QAG     Quality Assessment Group
RR      Ring Road
SJZ     Shijiazhuang
TA      Technical assistance




             Vice President: James W. Adams

           Country Director: David R. Dollar

            Sector Manager: Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez

        Project Team Leader: Shomik Mehndiratta

          ICR Team Leader: Reindert Westra

                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
                         Shijiazhuang Urban Transport Project




                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph


 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...............................................1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes...............................................5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................8
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.........................................................16
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance......................................................16
 6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................17
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners...........20
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing..........................................................................21
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component..................................................................................22
 Annex 3. Economic Analysis and Performance Monitoring ........................................29
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............32
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ...........................................................................34
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results...................................................36
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .....................37
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................38
 Annex 9. Implementation of Resettlement and Environmental Management Plan......39
 Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents.....................................................................42
 MAP: IBRD 31281 .......................................................................................................43

A. Basic Information

                                                                     CN-Shijiazhuang Urban
Country:                China                 Project Name:
                                                                     Transport
Project ID:             P056596               L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-46000
ICR Date:               06/29/2009            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                     OF CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 100.0M            Disbursed Amount:      USD 100.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
Shijiazhuang Urban Transport Project Office
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/30/1999    Effectiveness:                           01/23/2002
Appraisal:             01/16/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              03/27/2001    Mid-term Review:       04/12/2004        06/10/2004
                                     Closing:               12/31/2006        12/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry      Highly Satisfactory


                                              i

at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                         Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                         Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General transportation sector                                  8                 8
Roads and highways                                            91                91
Sub-national government administration                         1                 1


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Municipal governance and institution building                  25               25
Other urban development                                        50               50
Pollution management and environmental health                  25               25


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                    At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:          James W. Adams                   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:        David R. Dollar                  Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:          Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez         Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project Team Leader:     Reindert Westra                  Richard G. Scurfield
ICR Team Leader:         Reindert Westra
ICR Primary Author:      Graham Smith



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project objective is to foster the development of an efficient and environmentally
sustainable urban transport system in the city of Shijiazhuang while providing a wider set
of travel choices for users. The sub-objectives are to:

  1. develop a stronger and more efficient urban road network;

  2. improve the efficiency and safety of the road system for all modes of transport while
preserving the benefits of the bicycle;

  3. develop stronger and more effective public transport services;


                                             ii

  4. improve the quality and efficiency of road maintenance activities in the city;

  5. promote better environmental protection and environmental improvements; and

  6. strengthen the institutions for managing transport planning, services and operations.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No change

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval          Target         Completion or
                                               documents)         Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Improve the road system - number of accidents reduction
Value
quantitative or 1,325                      1,060                              769
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   12/31/2006                         12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Target met and exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Improve the road system - length of dedicated cycle-ways in city proper
Value
quantitative or 66.2 km                    130 km                             140 km
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   12/31/2006                         12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Target met and exceeded with two years delay
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Develop public transport services - Bus ridership in city
Value
quantitative or 2.97%                      no target                          8.6%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                   12/31/2006                         12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        No target set but very strong increase
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Develop public transport services - Staff/Bus ratio for buses of SPTC
Value
quantitative or 4:1                        no target                          2.4:1
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                   12/31/2006                         12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        No target set but high efficiency achieved, perhaps not sustainable
achievement)


                                                iii

Indicator 5 :   Improve road maintenance - increase road condition/percentage of main trunk
                road of high quality
Value
quantitative or 57.8%                    65%                               69.5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                 12/31/2006                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded
achievement)

Indicator 6 :   Improve road maintenance - increase road condition/percentage of secondary
                roads of high quality
Value
quantitative or 46%                      60%                               62.7%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                 12/31/2006                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded
achievement)

Indicator 7 :   Improve road maintenance - increase budget and expenditure/city budget (RMB
               million)
Value
quantitative or 20.45                    21.1                              80.5
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                 12/31/2006                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded
achievement)

Indicator 8 :   Environmental protection and improvement - establish vehicle emission
                inspection and monitoring stations
Value
quantitative or 0                        3                                 9
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                 12/31/2006                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded
achievement)

Indicator 9 :   Environmental protection and improvement - increase numbers of vehicle
                emission inspections
Value
quantitative or 0                        24,000                            100,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1998                 12/31/2006                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded
achievement)




                                               iv

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                              approval          Revised        Completion or
                                             documents)     Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :  % of road network development
Value
(quantitative  0%                         100%                               100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                  06/30/2006                         12/31/2008
               This Intermediate Outcome Indicator was not included in the original design of
Comments       the monitoring and evaluation framework ans was inserted during the transition
(incl. %       from the PSR to ISR in June 2005.
achievement)
               (cont'd in Indicator 2)
Indicator 2 :  % of bicyles and traffic management developed
Value
(quantitative  0%                         100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                  06/30/2006
               (cont'd from Indicator 1)
Comments
(incl. %       As such, the indicators presented were used to track project progress rather than
achievement)   outcomes. The PDO indicators provide sufficient evidence to evaluate the
               project's impact.
Indicator 3 :  % of public transport improved
Value
(quantitative  0%                         100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                  06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       See comment in Indicators 1 and 2.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  % of environmental improvement
Value
(quantitative  0%                         100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                  06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       See comment in Indicators 1 and 2.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  % of road maintenance improved
Value
(quantitative  0%                         100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                  06/30/2006
Comments       See comment in Indicators 1 and 2.



                                               v

(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :  % of institutional development and technical assistance completed
Value
(quantitative  0%                        100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2001                 06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       See comment in Indicators 1 and 2.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                       IP                Disbursements
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     06/25/2001           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     10/25/2001           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    0.00
  3     01/18/2002           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    0.00
  4     05/14/2002           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    1.00
  5     12/17/2002           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    4.00
  6     06/30/2003           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    7.72
  7     12/30/2003           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    7.72
  8     06/30/2004           Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory                 14.59
  9     12/29/2004           Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory                 18.46

  10    06/20/2005           Satisfactory             Moderately
                                                    Unsatisfactory                  22.85

  11    12/14/2005           Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             33.90
  12    12/01/2006           Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             46.10
  13    11/10/2007           Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             57.84
  14    01/14/2008           Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             65.25



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal


This project was approved in March 2001. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of
the time highlighted the importance of reducing infrastructure bottlenecks as a key
component of the Government's development strategy. It also recognized the importance
of managing urban development.

The transport challenges of China's rapid urban development were:

    ·   Worsening urban traffic congestion;
    ·   Growing vehicular air pollution;
    ·   Inadequate facilities for pedestrians;
    ·   Bicycles were losing favor;
    ·   Roads were poorly maintained;
    ·   New roads were needed;
    ·   Accidents were increasing in numbers and severity;
    ·   Public transport services were poor in many cities; and
    ·   Institutions had not adapted to the complex task of managing urban transport.

When this project was conceived, the Bank had limited experience of lending to Chinese
cities for urban transport ­only two such loans to Shanghai. China likewise had limited
experience of borrowing from the Bank for this purpose. However, a solid conceptual
foundation had been laid by a nationwide symposium on urban transport development
strategy held in 1995. Its proceedings were subsequently published as a formal World
Bank publication (see Project Appraisal Document (PAD), pages 4-5). In the years
immediately following, this foundation served as the basis for designing four urban
transport projects: in Guangzhou, Urumqi, three cities in Liaoning province, and
Shijiazhuang.

Shijiazhuang, the capital of Hebei Province, sought the Bank's assistance to help it
implement a new land use strategy. The city had an urban population of about 3 million.
Its central area was defined by a rectangle of main streets making up the second ring
road, about 13 km from east to west and 8 km from north to south. Inside this a rectangle
of main streets (sometimes referred to as the first ring) encompassed the central business
district, that included both dense residential neighborhoods, the city government and
public buildings, the railway station, the sports stadium and the main shopping areas.
Most industry was outside this area or plans existed for moving it out. The
preponderance of trips was from the west side (mainly residential) to the center and east
side (mainly offices and commercial).

The senior leaders in Shijiazhuang recognized the importance of developing a more
effective urban transport system within their city if the quality of life for its residents was
to improve. The land use and transportation strategy, developed with Bank assistance
during preparation, sought to facilitate personal movement within the central area in a



                                               1

sustainable way, while diverting most industrial and longer-distance motor traffic away
from downtown by means of the first and second ring roads.

The city's transport strategy was designed to:

    ·   Reinforce the existing road network including strengthening the First Ring Road
        (to reflect its functional importance), expand the capacity of the east-west streets
        within the Second Ring Road (especially those which crossed the main railway
        line), and complete `missing links' (in particular six north-south arterial roads
        within the Second Ring Road).
    ·   Manage existing road space more effectively and efficiently, including providing
        additional facilities for bicycles and pedestrians, particularly at major
        intersections.
    ·   Strengthen the road maintenance organization and provide additional funding.
    ·   Control vehicle emissions through improved inspection and maintenance of
        vehicles.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators


The project development objective was to foster the development of an efficient and
environmentally sustainable urban transport system in the city of Shijiazhuang while
providing a wider set of travel choices for users. The sub-objectives were to:

    (1) develop a stronger and more efficient urban road network;
    (2) improve the efficiency and safety of the road system for all modes of transport,
        while preserving the benefits of the bicycle;
    (3) develop stronger and more effective public transport services;
    (4) improve the quality and efficiency of road maintenance activities in the city;
    (5) promote better environmental protection and environmental improvements; and
    (6) strengthen the institutions for managing transport planning, services and
        operations.

During appraisal a large set of performance indicators was defined and agreed, to
document progress toward each of these sub-objectives (PAD page 3 and Implementation
Completion and Results (ICR) Report Annex 3).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO was not changed.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The project was designed to benefit all users of the City's transport system, with
emphasis on the mobility of all citizens, including pedestrians, cyclists and those using
public transport (buses), and not just those with cars. (See PAD page 10 for a full table
of direct and secondary benefits and beneficiaries.) In 1998 there were about 1.5 million


                                               2

bicycles in the city, but fewer than 130,000 cars. At the time the project was launched,
more than one million people used bicycles for their daily travel to work, business or
school, making up 54 percent of all trips in the city. Bicycling and walking together
accounted for 80 percent of all trips. Buses did not provide a viable option, as was shown
by their 3 percent share of all trips. For this reason particular importance was attached to
protecting these modes from encroachment by automobiles.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project financed a critical subset of the investments included in the municipality's
transport development strategy, as follows:

   A. Road infrastructure. Improvements were proposed for the First Ring Road,
        which at that time was a hybrid of high-speed, high-capacity sections and lower-
        grade sections. Particular importance was attached to four key interchanges at the
        `corners of the box'. Main streets in the city center were also to be upgraded,
        especially through construction of new bridges crossing railway lines; and
        "missing links" in the basic grid of arterial streets were to be completed. These
        works fell into three groups: road works (25.2 km), railway overpasses and
        underpasses (4.9 km), and road bridges and interchanges (2.8 km).

   B. Traffic management. For the exclusive use of cyclists 2 km of bikeway were
        proposed, in addition to 33 km of segregated bicycle lanes incorporated into
        widened arterial streets. Some 130 junctions were also to be channelized1, eight
        pedestrian overpasses would be built, a pilot bus priority scheme would be
        introduced, as well as an Area Traffic Control System (computer-coordinated
        traffic lights), plus a number of smaller traffic engineering and road safety works
        and activities, and equipment.

   C. Public transport. It was proposed to rationalize the layout of the bus station
        adjacent to the central Railway Station. One bus maintenance depot, one bus
        parking lot and five suburban bus terminals would also be built, bus stops would
        be improved, and a management information system would be installed.

   D. Road maintenance. Modem planning tools and procedures would be introduced,
        and key pieces of maintenance equipment procured. The City committed itself to
        increasing its road maintenance effort.

   E. Control of vehicle emissions. A vehicle emissions control program would be
        introduced, together with improved air quality monitoring.

   F. Institutional development and technical assistance. Studies would be carried
        out and technical assistance provided to strengthen existing institutions and
        enhance the skills of staff working in these agencies.



1
 Traditionally city intersections were built as large open areas of asphalt pavement. `Channelization'
involved painting lines on the roadway and installing curbs to create lanes to be used by cars and
buses separate from those intended for bicycles and to demarcate pedestrian crossings, with `islands'
where the cyclists and pedestrians could wait in safety for traffic lights to change.


                                                    3

1.6 Revised Components

Not applicable.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

In December 2006, the original closing date, a minor amendment to the Loan Agreement
was processed, for the following purposes:

    (i)    amend certain activities (particularly the list of civil works schemes) within the
           overall scope of the project and in accordance with the project development
           objectives;
    (ii)   reallocate the loan proceeds, in particular the unallocated portion, mainly to the
           civil works;
    (iii) extend the loan closing date by two years to December 31, 2008;
    (iv) increase the disbursement percentage for civil works from 49% to 70% with
           effect from the date of the amendment;
    (v)    cancel a legal covenant for studying the possible franchising of bus operations;
           and
    (vi) increase the aggregate amount for civil works under national competitive
           building procedures.

The number of street sections being upgraded and widened was increased from 9 to 13
with a total length increased from 25 km to 37 km, while the cumulative length of new
railway overpasses and underpasses was reduced from about 5 km to about 3.6 km.

The Project Agreement required Shijiazhuang (SJZ) to undertake a review of the
regulatory and operational functions of the municipal bus company with a view to
formulating plans for separating regulation from operations, and to complete a draft
framework for such a separation. SJZ did not wish to comply with the second of these
requirements. The single municipal bus company was functioning well and modernizing
its fleet; services were expanding, operating efficiency was improving, and the financial
deficit was kept within 5-10 percent, covered by capital contributions from the City
budget. Under these circumstances the Bank accepted that institutional restructuring of
the bus company was not a priority. This conclusion, while specific to Shijiazhuang, was
consistent with the conclusions of a Bank study of bus companies throughout China,
completed shortly before.

The Bank agreed that the loan extension was warranted to ensure achievement of the
project development objective.




                                               4

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Preparation was thorough and took due account of lessons learned from other urban
transport projects. It had the advantage of a Bank-managed grant of about $600,000 from
the Japanese government to fund preparation of the urban transport strategy for the City,
the environmental impact assessment and action plan, and plans for specific components.

A Quality Assessment Group (QAG) panel in 2001 judged quality at entry as excellent.
It noted that preparation had been very thorough in all dimensions and borrower
ownership showed clearly in many ways, auguring well for the sustainability of results.
Among the many performance indicators, the Quality at Entry (QAE) review singled out
the cross-town average speeds as the main indicator to integrate all others. The social
assessment and resettlement action plan could be considered best practice.

Under the guidance of a `leading group' chaired by a deputy mayor, responsibility for
coordinating the multiple components was assigned to the Project Office (PO) --not a
permanent body--which would directly manage the civil works contracts. Other
components with stronger technical assistance content were assigned to the relevant
existing specialized line departments. Relative to the earlier urban transport projects in
China this was an innovation that struck a good balance. In procuring the civil works,
construction, installation, signage and greenworks would be packaged together, a lesson
learned from the earlier urban transport projects.

One negative aspect noted by the QAE review was that this project continued the practice
among Bank-supported urban transport projects in China, of "one city, one project". This
practice ran the risk of imposing a steep learning curve on the implementing agencies and
of overloading them with too many components. This assessment was prescient (see
Lessons Learned in Chapter 6).

2.2 Implementation

Implementation delays: Implementation was slow, falling well behind schedule from
start to finish. Until at least 2004 the PO was under-staffed to cope with the proliferation
of contracts to be managed. The request to extend the loan closing date (Section 1.7)
formalized cancelation of several planned civil works contracts and their replacement by
others, similar in nature and size. These cancelations and replacements arose mainly
from problems in procurement, land acquisition and resettlement. Repeatedly the PO ran
into difficulties in securing agreement (i) with the national railway, whose tracks several
road bridges were to cross, (ii) among people to be displaced, who were unwilling to
accept the compensation offered, and (iii) among farmers on whose land the Bus
Company wanted to buy to build its terminals. It also encountered coordination
difficulties with other local infrastructure.

The main railway line running north-south cut the downtown area in two, causing a
problem of poor connectivity between its central and western parts. The few existing


                                              5

streets that crossed the railway did so through underpasses that were narrow and
restricting ­no more than two motor vehicle lanes in each direction, and in one important
case only three lanes in all. These needed to be either widened or replaced by over-
bridges. Neither the City nor the Bank foresaw the problems of coordination and
procurement with the railway ­a national entity. In hindsight it might have been foreseen
that the railway would be sensitive regarding the granting to the City of easements to
build bridges across its lines, especially in the vicinity of the main station, for fear of
disruptions to its operations. This was, after all, one of the busiest lines in the country,
the main line south from Beijing toward Xi'an, Wuhan and Guangzhou, with trains
running every few minutes throughout the day. The City's inability to reach agreement
with the railway led to repeated delays. At one point the railway counter-proposed use of
one of its affiliated construction units, who would have the specialized experience it
deemed necessary. However, without competitive bidding this was incompatible with
Bank procurement rules.

What could not have been foreseen was a decision by the railway, in 2006, to undertake a
major excavation project to put its north-to-south tracks underground throughout the city
center, and to relocate the station toward the southern edge of town. When this was
announced, it was clear that one major overbridge (Heping Street) and a proposed
underpass for bicycles (linking Gongnong Street and Huaibei Street) would warrant
radical redesign, making it impossible to complete them before the extended loan closing
date. They were dropped and replaced with other local street improvements that fell
within the existing project description.

The delays due to land acquisition and resettlement issues are discussed in the safeguards
section (2.4) below.

During the project implementation period, China vigorously promoted gross domestic
product (GDP) growth and every city ­including Shijiazhuang-- invested heavily in
infrastructure. The Bank loan was only a small part of the total project financing and an
even smaller part of the City's total investment budget. Throughout the period of
implementation the PO had to compete to secure sustained priority for the activities
planned under the Project.

Bank concern about the delays reached a head in mid-2004, at the time of the mid-term
review. The supervision mission of June 2004 was the occasion for a thorough review of
progress with all the many components and proposals for substitution. The PO was
under-staffed to manage the large number of civil works and equipment contracts ­nearly
40--and the multiple complications arising from delayed resettlement and variation
orders. At that time 16 technical assistance contracts were also under way. The PO did
not have enough authority to ensure timely actions by other municipal bodies, with whom
it had only a coordinating relationship. This supervision mission downrated
implementation progress to Unsatisfactory, and its follow-up management letter called on
the PO to take on more staff and strengthen its coordination role with a plan of dated
actions. The supervision mission of December 2004 reinforced this message by
withholding approval for re-use of loan savings until existing problems were solved.



                                               6

SJZ took corrective action over the following year, allowing the supervision mission of
May 2005 to recommend changing the Implementation Progress (IP) rating to
Moderately Unsatisfactory and by the end of 2005 to Moderately Satisfactory.

Procurement: On several occasions Bank supervision missions expressed concern about
variation orders on civil works whose final costs exceeded the contract value by more
than 15 percent. Above this threshold the PO should have sought the Bank's `no
objection' before approving them, but several such cases were not submitted to the Bank
until after the fact. The Bank's reviews found no irregularities.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

As reflected in the QAG assessment of excellent quality at entry, the indicators were
clearly defined. In hindsight a shorter list would have been more manageable and
focused, but at the time of appraisal Bank experience with performance indicators as a
central instrument for monitoring was still limited.

Measurements were made each year during the course of implementation. The
supervision mission of December 2004 included a detailed evaluation of progress as
tracked by the performance indicators. The final results are summarized in Section 3.2
below.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Resettlement: Resettlement was the largest concern throughout the period of
implementation, but the City applied the safeguards appropriately in finding solutions, at
the expense of some delay (see Annex 6A). Complaints were received from several
residents who were reluctant to move on the terms offered them by the City. The City
had accepted the Bank's procedures for dealing with resettlement and its rules on
compensation, but some residents complained that the assessors whose job it was to value
their property were poorly trained and undervalued their properties. Others claimed that
they were moved before they had given written approval. At least one resident came to
the Bank's Beijing Office to pursue his complaint.

To their credit, the responsible persons in the PO reviewed cases carefully and in some
instances increased the offered compensation. The proposed demolition of certain
buildings required rulings on whether compensation was owed to state-owned enterprises
(no) and village community-owned enterprises (yes). Notably, when faced with dozens
of railway employees who objected to moving from an old apartment block, the PO
modified the design of the civil works so that the demolition was no longer essential, and
the residents were allowed to stay.

The bus terminals were delayed, likewise, because the municipality could not get
approval from the national government to acquire the land. In the end it chose instead to
relocate the terminals to land already under its control.




                                              7

Environmental management: The environmental management plan (EMP) was
implemented in full with a strong institutional set-up. Bank specialists have rated this
`best practice' and are publishing a note summarizing its features for the benefit of other
client cities (see Annex 6B).

Financial management: It came to the Bank's attention that the SJZ Municipal Finance
Bureau had set up an evaluation office (EO - later renamed Assessment and Evaluation
Committee) to vet contractors' invoices that went over the negotiated price, sometimes
leading to long delays in payment. The Bank expressed concern that this procedure
duplicated one of the core functions of the supervising engineer, an international
consulting firm hired under the project with a mandate consistent with FIDIC rules. The
EO's second review deprived the PO of full control over contract management and
further delayed disbursement. Apart from this issue, financial management was
satisfactory and does not call for comment. Financial audits were duly submitted and
clean.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The City has expressed interest in a follow-on project and has filed a request with the
National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), the body at national level
which decides on projects to be included in China's lending program from the Bank. To
date the NDRC has not agreed, because of competing priorities within the fixed annual
borrowing envelope, priority being given to central and western provinces.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation


The project objective remains highly relevant, ten years after the project was identified --
arguably even more so, as incomes rise and patterns of urban land use (sprawl or dense
development) become more established and irreversible. The Project addresses several of
the goals of the Bank's current Country Partnership Strategy with China: balanced
urbanization, reducing air pollution, optimizing energy use and improving public
institutions.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives


Achievement of the performance targets was moderately satisfactory. This evaluation
was reached after a careful weighing of the outcomes and risks, set out below. Some
targets were met and exceeded ­ notably in road safety-- while others were not. Some
indicators met or exceeded the target for end-2006, the original closing date, but the
improving trend faltered thereafter. In those areas there is cause for concern about the
sustainability of the project's developmental outcomes. The full results per indicator are
to be found in Annex 3. In interpreting these results, it is worth remembering that over
the decade from 1998 to 2008 car ownership and traffic volumes in Chinese cities
generally will have tripled or quadrupled (growing at 12-15 percent per year). The
`without project' alternative will have been steadily worsening congestion. A minimal



                                             8

aim of the project was `running to stand still', in the sense: expanding street capacity and
traffic flow fast enough to keep pace with the rising tide of vehicles.

The performance indicators were designed to monitor each of the project's first five sub-
objectives2. The evaluation is as follows:

A. Develop a stronger and more efficient urban road network

The QAE review had noted that the cross-town trip times constituted the main indicator
for evaluating achievement of the PDO.

    ·    Travel speeds on the main streets in the city center improved steadily from the
         base year, 1998, until 2006, when most of the project works had been completed.

    ·    In 2006 travel speeds on three corridors monitored exceeded the 2006 targets
    ·    In 2008 the travel speeds across four completed corridors show a mixed picture:

              o On two corridors the speeds were still ahead of the 2006 targets in 2008.

              o On the other two corridors growing congestion seems to have reasserted
                  itself, as travel speeds fell to below 2006 targets, but still above the 1998
                  baseline values.

Finding: Target partially not met and partially exceeded.

B. Improve the overall efficiency and safety of the road system for all modes of
    transport, while preserving the benefits of the bicycle

Several indicators were used to measure achievement of this sub-objective:

    1. Accidents

         (a) During the project period the number of crashes shrank markedly: from over
              3,500 in 2002 to a low of 259 in 2006 and ending at 769 in 2008, still well
              below the 2006 target of 1,0603.

         (b) The rate of fatalities likewise fell from 428 in 1998 to the range 85-65 in each
              of the four years 2003-06, but deteriorated somewhat thereafter to 120-100 in
              2007 and 2008 respectively. This too was still well below the 2006 end-year
              target of 340 fatalities per year.




2
 No indicators were adopted for measuring achievement of the sixth sub-objective: "Strengthen the
institutions for managing transport planning, services and operations"

3
 The reporting of accidents may have been influenced by the introduction in 2005 of a new national
road safety law, which tightened reporting requirements. But it is unlikely to have affected the
reporting of deaths.




                                                   9

      (c) Injuries similarly declined from 1,040 in 1998 to 186 in 2008, well below the
          2006 target of 832. The ratio of deaths per crash grew over the period, as did
          the ratio of deaths to injuries. That is, as speeds increased over the years,
          crashes were ever more likely to cause injuries and the injuries were ever
          more likely to be fatal.

   2. Vehicle delays

   The time that vehicles were stopped as a part of total trip time improved on both
   corridors tracked:

        (a) Zhonghua Street: from 43.5% in 1998 to 26% in 2008, virtually on the 2006
            target of 25.7%

        (b) Zhongshan Street: from 28.4% in 1998 to 14% in 2008, just below and thus
            exceeding the 2006 target of 15.5%

   3. Bicycle ways

   The length of reserved lanes for bicycles grew steadily, from 66 km in 1998 to 140
   km in 2008, more than double the baseline and above the 2006 target of 130 km.

   4. Mode split

      (a) On the E-W corridor monitored, bicycle volume per peak hour dropped from
          52,000 in 1998 to 40,000, just below the 2006 target of 42,000.

      (b) On the N-S corridor monitored, bicycle volume per peak hour dropped from
          78,400 in 1998 to 76,200, some 25% below the 2006 target of 105,000. We
          note that along this N-S corridor the bicycle volume peaked in 2004 at 90,320
          and subsequently declined.

Finding: Targets generally met

C. Develop stronger and more effective public transport services

The City has well succeeded in strengthening the market share of public transport and
expanding the bus fleet, but at the expense of financial results.

   ·  The City's buses succeeded in tripling their market share, going from 3 percent to
      nearly 9 percent (no target was set for this indicator).

   ·  The number of buses in operation likewise more than tripled, from about 900 to
      over 3,100 well above the 2006 target of 1,429 buses. The fleet is now relatively
      young, diversified in size to fit the various submarkets, and appropriately sized to
      the demand.

   ·  The occupancy ratio (the average of peak and off-peak hours) declined steadily
      from a maximum of 78 percent in 2002 to 54 percent in 2008, well below the
      target of 75%. As ridership grew, this was made possible by the deployment for
      the first time of double-decker buses, offering considerably greater capacity.




                                            10

    ·   However, their financial results (no target set) deteriorated somewhat: at the
        outset revenues covered about 95 percent of expenditures but this ratio had
        slipped below 90 percent by the 2007 and fell sharply to 75 percent in 2008. This
        was despite some improvement in staff efficiency: starting at 4 employees per
        bus, it hovered around 3.2 to 3.4 during most of the project period, and ended up
        at only 2.4 per bus, which is deemed very low and not sustainable. So far the City
        has covered the deficit by contributing new buses as an injection of equity.

Finding: One out of two set targets were met, while there was some good performance
and some deterioration on four other indicators for which no targets were set.

D. Improve the quality and efficiency of road maintenance activities

The trend was toward steady gradual improvement, meeting the targets.

    ·   A road maintenance management information system was established as one of
        the project outputs.

    ·   The share of main roads in good condition was raised from below 60% to almost
        70%, exceeding the target of 65%, while that of secondary streets was raised from
        about 46% to about 63%, exceeding the target of 60%.

    ·   This reflected a big increase in the City's spending on road maintenance ­more
        than 3-fold. The funding continued to fall substantially short of the ideal
        maintenance budget but, whereas at the start the area of roads actually maintained
        was only half of what was needed, by the end the ratio had reached two-thirds,
        The target set implicitly was 100%, but of a much smaller target area (in m2). The
        actual area maintained exceeded the target, but it was a low target.

Finding: All targets deemed met.

E. Promote better environmental protection and environmental improvements

The setting up of vehicle inspection stations exceeded expectations. While the target was
four lines, nine have been put into operation. And the number of cars inspected each year
went from zero to over 12,000 by the middle of the period and to about 100,000 in the
final year.

Finding: Targets exceeded

F. Strengthen the Institutions for managing transport planning, services and
    operations

Studies were carried out and technical assistance provided to strengthen the efforts of the
existing agencies and to enhance their skill levels and capacity. No indicators were
adopted for measuring progress. However, the very substantial program of technical
assistance assignments was carried out fully and without delay, which speaks well of
SJZ's commitment. Bank monitoring found their outputs satisfactory, and it was felt that
executing these programs early in the project life cycle contributed to their having an
immediate impact.


                                             11

On the basis of the indicators alone, the case can be made for a rating of `satisfactory'.
However, the indicators ­while numerous--measured some actions that were not part of
the project, such as expansion of the bus fleet, but did not capture some key project
outcomes, such as the reserved bus lanes. A full evaluation of PDO achievement
therefore also requires qualitative assessment of these other outputs and outcomes.

Priority to public transport: While the City government had initially proposed major
expansion of road space for private cars at the expense of buses, bicycles and pedestrians,
it became clear during preparation that at least the PO --and hopefully many more in City
Hall-- were persuaded of the merits of traffic management, especially channelization of
junctions, creating dividers and safe `islands' for cyclists and pedestrians in streets that
were generally six lanes wide. They were equally persuaded of the merits of improved
public transport, as evidenced by a sequence of proposals, over time, to use savings and
unspent funds to expand these components.

The appraised project called for a reserved bus lane in the center of Zhongshan Street --
which runs east-west and is the busiest street in town. It went into operation in 2002 as a
pilot and became the centerpiece of the bus lane concept in SJZ. It raised bus speeds and
was widely acclaimed by users (see Section 3.6.) The scheme also aroused interest at
national level, since first Kunming and then SJZ were pioneers in launching such lanes,
which offered an interesting alternative to a full bus rapid transit system.

However, it is understood that both City and the provincial government leaders expressed
concern about the risk of bus passengers being hit by other vehicles while running to
catch a bus at the narrow center-street platforms. After five years of operation, in 2008
they had the central bus lanes replaced by curb-side bus lanes. The Bank believed ­on
the basis of international experience--that this would slow down the bus flow, since the
same lanes would have to be shared with other traffic intending to turn right, which
disrupts the flow. Concerns about the safety of pedestrians crossing from sidewalks to
the central bus platforms at stops could have been addressed by other measures, including
better channelization of intersections. The Bank ICR mission observed that, for lack of
enforcement, the curb-side lanes were not being reserved for buses and little of their
potential benefit was being realized.

In 2005, prompted by the national government's `Priority for Public Transport' policy
campaign, the City decided to study and develop a second reserved bus corridor, this time
using curb-side lanes as a pilot to compare and contrast with the center-street lanes on
Zhongshan Street. It selected Jianshe Street, which runs north-south in the heart of the
city center. The ICR mission found, however, that the City went through the required
investment phases (using project savings) including widening the street to create three
lanes in each direction throughout (it had been in parts only 2x2 lanes, too narrow to
accommodate a dedicated bus lane), and painting the lines on the asphalt --but then it
decided against enforcing them. The City had concluded that there were too few bus
routes to warrant the aggravation of excluding other users. The City may activate the




                                             12

Jianshe Street reserved bus lanes when the railway relocates its station to the south, since
this will increase demand for north-south bus routes.

Other improvements to public transport: At the same time, the City took several other
steps to enhance public transport and increase its share of total downtown travel. The
fleet was substantially enlarged (not funded by the project), and despite the delays three
WB-financed terminals were finally built, in addition to a changed lay-out for the
Railway Station forecourt bus area. Each improved the quality of service offered to
customers and helped de-congest the previously informal terminal areas.

On all routes in the downtown area buses were now being monitored in real time by a
GPS-based dispatching system.. This system also allows information to be fed, in real
time, to variable-message screens at each main bus stop showing waiting passengers how
close the next bus is to arriving4.

Bus passengers also benefit from growing reliance on smart cards for paying the fare.
The cards can be bought for fixed time periods or for a fixed number of trips, at a
discount from the standard RMB 1 fare paid on board. As of March 2009 they were
accounting for some 20 percent of bus revenues, the rest being paid on the bus.

Reserved lanes for cyclists: Each civil works contract provided reserved lanes for
cyclists. On the main streets these are amply proportioned for all but the peak hours. In
places they are intruded upon by parked vehicles, but generally they work well.
However, when the railway vetoed the planned underpass that was to connect Gongnong
Street with Huaibei Street, the intended dedicated bicycle street that would have resulted
had to be dropped.

Other traffic management outcomes: Several other outputs contributed to the overall
positive outcomes:

    ·    A modern integrated traffic light system was procured and installed. It works
         satisfactorily, with appropriate phasing and inclusion of signals for cyclists and
         pedestrians.

    ·    Consultants advised on parking management and the City adopted several useful
         measures. Parking meters were introduced for the first time; they use stored value
         smart cards. Off-street parking, rarely used at the start, was substantially
         expanded.

    ·    A database of road accidents was set up and made operational.
    ·    A pavement management system was designed, installed and made operational ­
         though it is said to have some shortcomings still that have not been ironed out.

3.3 Efficiency

4
  They show the distance to the next bus, not the time ­avoiding forecasting how long it will take for
that bus to arrive.




                                                   13

The City has not yet provided any ex post economic evaluation of the project. It is a
technically complex task, since it involves modeling traffic flows at many complex
intersections and short street sections where localized improvements were made. In the
absence of a formal re-evaluation, it is noted that construction costs have not incurred
major over-runs, traffic volumes have grown broadly in line with appraisal forecasts, and
the unit values of road user costs have if anything grown in real terms. Therefore it is
reasonable to conclude that the overall economic return `ex post' is at least as good as the
appraisal forecast, namely 29 percent. The City allocated investment to the right
locations, reflecting traffic priorities, and avoided over-designing intersections.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

This is a project with many outputs and outcomes, some measured against targets by the
agreed indicators, others measured but without targets, and yet others not measured
systematically. As discussed above, the majority of the performance indicators met or
exceeded the targets. If they were the whole story, this might have warranted an overall
rating of fully Satisfactory. However, the indicator which was considered at appraisal to
sum up the project objective more than any other, the cross-town travel times, showed
mixed results. Some other targets were met at the original completion date of 2006 but
have fallen back since then, leaving doubts about their sustainability.

In particular the degrading of the reserved bus lanes ­which has contributed to the longer
travel times since 2006, and is likely to erode the market share of public transport-- and
the worsening financial deficit of the bus company are disappointing, as is the continuing
shortfall between the road maintenance needed and that which is delivered. They suggest
a moderate to substantial risk that the benefits will not be sustained (see below). For this
reason the most appropriate rating is Moderately Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


Attention to pedestrians, cyclists and road safety all had beneficial impacts on the urban
poor.

The more respectful attitude adopted toward persons who were threatened with
resettlement is also a positive outcome for social development. To our knowledge it was
the first case among Bank-supported projects in China in which a city government, in
response to objections from occupants of condemned housing, reduced the need for
demolition by modifying the civil works design. It speaks well of the Shijiazhuang City
government and may set a precedent for other Chinese cities.




                                               14

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The City's capacity to plan and implement traffic management, efficient public transport
and road safety measures was strengthened. In all 19 technical assistance/advisory
contracts were implemented, and training was provided for many professionals in the PO
and other relevant City offices, including study tours to other mainland Chinese cities,
Hong Kong, Seoul, London and Bogota, Colombia. The topics of the contracts are listed
in Annex 2.

In several other urban transport projects in China, the technical assistance (TA) has been
left until after the main civil works have been concluded ­a pattern also found in many
other countries. This project was different: most of the TA was carried out early in the
project implementation period. This allowed the benefits from it to be plowed back
immediately into management of the project. However, no indicators were agreed at
entry and no mid-term or end-of-project assessment was made of the TA's outcome.
That the PO did not prepare its own completion report leaves some doubt about whether
the institutional capacity has been sustained.

It is also conspicuous that three quarters of the TA contracts went to domestic firms. It
was not possible to assess whether this approach achieved a greater transfer of skills and
knowledge than an approach using a higher proportion of international consultants,
particularly as Shijiazhuang provided no feedback on value of the TA.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)


None.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

As part of project preparation a survey was made in 2000 of residents' travel patterns. As
the project was nearing completion in 2006 another survey was made, focusing on non-
motorized traffic, and in 2007 a survey was made of public transport ridership patterns.
All three surveys brought out the high incidence of relatively short trips from home to
work or school and the important roles of modes other than private cars. Passengers
using the bus priority lanes on Zhongshan Street were surveyed in 2006.

The findings of these four surveys are summarized in Annex 5. They confirmed the high
concentration of short trips within the city center, for which cycling and walking were the
modes preferred by well over half of the population. The survey of riders on the
Zhongshan bus priority lanes recorded their high satisfaction with the improved service.
But the surveys also recorded widespread concern about disorderly mingling of motor
vehicles, cyclists and pedestrians at major downtown intersections.




                                              15

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate to Substantial

The pressures are bound to continue for expanding street capacity more for the benefit of
car users than for bus passengers, cyclists and pedestrians. The regression of the reserved
bus lanes on Zhongshan Street and their indefinitely postponed commissioning on
Jianshe Street is evidence of this. There is still a wide need to strengthen enforcement of
parking restrictions on sidewalks and in lanes intended for bicycles. On the other hand,
the relevant technical arms of the City government now have the skills and experience to
recognize the need for balance and to strive against external pressures to make sure it is
sustained.

Several streets improved under the Project are already showing premature cracking and
deterioration. The growing budget for road maintenance has been closing the gap
between the actual and the ideal, but road maintenance still falls short of the optimal.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

As the QAE assessment noted, the PAD showed a thorough and systematic preparation,
and effective incorporation of lessons learned from the earlier China UT projects.
Identification, preparation and appraisal were all competent and thorough, with an
appropriate mix of disciplines among the team members (see Annex 4). However, as the
QAE warned, the project design was probably too complex, given the limited
administrative capacity of the City government and the difficulties inherent in cross-
agency coordination. (See Section 6: Lessons Learned.)

(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The frequency of missions (twice a year throughout) was appropriate, as was the
composition of the supervision teams; resettlement and environmental specialists based in
Beijing were present on almost every mission. Every aide-memoire was very thorough in
its review and consistent in its approach. Sometimes its lists of actions to be taken were
very long, possibly too long considering the PO's limited management capacity. But this
is less a criticism of the supervision than of the overly complex project design.

The ratings given by staff were appropriate, notably when Implementation Progress was
downgraded from Satisfactory to Unsatisfactory for two half-years in 2004, and then
eased to Moderately Unsatisfactory in the next period, in step with the client's response
(see below). The circumstances may have warranted downrating at least half a year
sooner. However, it was in 2003 that the SARS epidemic caused an economy-wide
slowdown and a ban on Bank travel to the field.


                                              16

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank developed an ambitious and complex project as a pioneer in trying to shape
urban development, while the development itself was going on at a high pace. Both the
Bank and the City and Provincial officials were for the first time experiencing such a
growth and were discovering the issues and dilemmas as they progressed. The Bank
supervision was functionally thorough and the record is clear: downgrading occurred as
well as upgrading, indicating a sensitivity and responsiveness as well as an alertness to
the situation's evolution.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The national government did what little it was required to do, including negotiation of the
minor amendment to the Loan Agreement in 2006.

(b) Implementing Agency's Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

In the first year of implementation an adjustment in the Municipal administration's
structure reduced the PO's coordinating powers somewhat, but the PO management team
provided continuity from start to finish. The hybrid institutional approach to project
management continues, in hindsight, to seem reasonable --under which works were the
responsibility of the PO, while components with a strong focus on institutional
strengthening were entrusted to the respective permanent line agencies. The overall
rating of `Moderately Satisfactory' recognizes the substantial delays in implementing the
civil works and some other components and the slow disbursement of the loan from start
to finish, reflected in the Bank's `Unsatisfactory' rating on IP throughout 2004 (the fourth
year of implementation), `Moderately Unsatisfactory' for the first half of 2005 and
`Moderately Satisfactory' for the 3.5 years from then until the project was completed.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Concerns about the sustainability of the early gains ­evidenced by several of the
indicators and by the effective termination of the reserved bus lanes--together with the
mixed rating of IP noted above, lead us to rate the borrower's overall performance less
than fully satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

    1. When does a comprehensive project become too complicated? How can a
        balance be struck between an integrated approach and one that is do-able? This
        project repeated the experience of all our early urban transport operations in
        China. A first-time borrower city came to the Bank seeking financing for ring


                                             17

   roads and little more. As before with Guangzhou, Liaoning, and Urumqi, so
   again with SJZ the Bank had to expend quite some effort reaching agreement with
   the client regarding the importance, for sustainability, of serving the mobility
   needs of not just car occupants but also bus passengers, cyclists and pedestrians.

   In many countries and in most sectors, not just transport, the Bank in recent years
   has concluded that `simpler is better', wherever client ownership is in doubt and
   institutional capacity is limited ­which is the prevailing reality. It is also
   recognized that making single loans to cities is staff-intensive; a sequence of
   loans to the same implementing agency achieves economies on the second and
   subsequent operations. But so far in China's urban transport sector only Shanghai
   has had a second loan. China has so many large cities, it is reasonable to argue
   that the benefit to be gained from broadcasting the policy message to a `new' city
   exceeds the incremental benefit from a second project in one of the cities that
   received external help early on. NDRC makes these decisions; we must remain
   ready to work with more `first-time' cities.

   On the other hand, it is inescapable that building more roads is not, on its own, a
   sustainable solution to urban congestion. A city's strategy needs to be
   comprehensive and needs to integrate actions across disciplines, even if a Bank-
   supported project has a narrower focus. The present project, like those before it,
   shows that learning-by-doing traffic management, improvement of public
   transport and road safety pays dividends: SJZ city managers have come to
   appreciate and value these other disciplines.

   This suggests two possible lessons: we should continue to stress the importance
   of serving the travel needs of all citizens, not just private car owners. This can
   perhaps be done without going as far as six components. And we can strengthen
   ownership of sustainable transport (including components for public transport,
   cycling and walking) from the outset by encouraging self-selection of cities
   willing to be agents for change and champions for reform. This is the central
   concept of the current infusion of Global Environment Facility (GEF) grant funds
   through the national sustainable urban transport program. The central
   government (under the guidance of NDRC) has defined a medium-to-long term
   strategy for sustainable urban development and has invited cities to submit
   investment proposals consistent with this strategy for IBRD funding, to be
   blended with GEF grants to soften the financing cost.

2. A key attribute for managing resettlement is respect for the affected persons.
   As noted, the PO encountered several problems in applying the agreed
   resettlement procedures and compensation rates. Some of the delays were the
   result of the city taking a more respectful attitude towards affected persons and
   taking time to negotiate mutually accepted solutions. The Bank welcomes this
   evolution in attitudes and therefore does not consider it unsatisfactory.

3. Keep down the number of performance indicators and focus on outcomes.
   The key performance indicators were focused and prima facie appropriate, but
  numerous. To retain focus and to simplify the PO's task, fewer indicators would



                                          18

   have been better. The question remains, however, how to capture the
   strengthening of institutional capacity in a meaningful way. The issue suggests
   the need for a Bank-wide review to examine international best practice and update
   Bank guidance on indicators suitable for urban transport projects.

4. Borrower commitment to reform needs to be sustained. This project provided
   a rare example of center-street (median) bus lanes without physical lane dividers.
   SJZ is to be commended for taking the initiative to experiment with this approach,
   as only the second city in China to do so. It is to be regretted that the City and
   provincial governments later opted to terminate the median bus lanes, without a
   full documentation and discussion of its benefits and disadvantages. Any such
   pilot operation warrants a more systematic evaluation of its merits and a
   continuous process of consultation with all stakeholders, starting with the bus
   users; and examination of options to address revealed weaknesses, before a
   decision is reached to end the experiment.

   This experience also reminds the Bank of the importance, in promoting innovative
   policies, of ensuring continuous, effective communication with all relevant levels
   of political decision-making, including in this case the provincial government, to
   secure their support and commitment not only at appraisal but throughout the
   period of implementation.

5. How to measure success in a vehicle emissions inspection program? It is not
  clear what indicator is most appropriate for evaluating the effectiveness of a
  vehicle inspection program. `Numbers of vehicles inspected' says nothing about
  the effectiveness of the testing equipment or the integrity of the testing. Nor does
  `more than a target percentage passed' or `more than a target percentage failed'.
  The broad objective is to achieve a high level of compliance in the entire vehicle
  fleet, such as: "At least 90 percent of vehicles in use shall meet or surpass the
  emissions standard". This suggests an approach that focuses inspections on those
  vehicles which are most likely ­by reason of age or poor condition--to be heavy
  emitters (of dirty smoke), backed up by random spot checks on the road. The
  issue suggests the need for a Bank-wide initiative to examine international best
  practice and propose a Bank policy as to the way a vehicle emissions control
  program should be designed and implemented, its success measured and its
  integrity enforced.

6. Conflict between Chinese administrative law and international best practice
   on supervision of civil works: The ICR mission was told that review and
  acceptance of civil works by the Enforcement Office reporting to the Provincial
  Finance Bureau is stipulated by current Chinese administrative law, whereas
  international best practice, as embodied in FIDIC rules, is that the direct client
  should exercise this responsibility through its supervising engineer. It therefore
  suggests that the Bank needs to take this into account for future operations and
  devise a solution that reconciles Chinese law and international best practice ­or at
  least avoids conflict and wasteful duplication of controls.




                                        19

    7. Preventing and Managing Delays. Numerous delays were encountered with
       various causes such as conflicts with the National Railways, procurement issues
       and Project Office coordination and new structures for internal audit such as the
       establishment of the Enforcement Office. Here too, perhaps the lesson to be learnt
       is to keep projects simple and focused and hence the implementation period may
       be shortened. The longer a project lingers the more new aspects and players will
       enter the field and will begin to influence the process beyond what could be
       foreseen at appraisal.

       The other half of the lesson is to have very good open relationships with all the
       major decision makers so that issues can be detected early and resolved before
       they cause delays. But people do leave office and new players will develop new
       policies, again pointing to simpler faster implementation of projects. Perhaps too,
       the potential conflicts need to be understood early on and adopted as risks so they
       can be managed expressly though more conscious efforts to make contact and
       keep contact with the relevant decision makers.

       All that said, this project was an early urban transport arena intervention, so all
       involved were learning what the decision making field was and has become.

       A related aspect is the Rating at Entry as being excellent with strong project
       ownership being evident, yet we note that the PMO had to compete with other
       projects for the attention of the City's leadership to obtain decisions and resolve
       issues. Perhaps this points to an inward looking appraisal orientation: the WB
       project is appraised in itself, and perhaps too little account is taken of the context
       in which it is being developed, appraised and implemented. Subsequent or
       concurrent projects will compete for time, funds and decision making and this too
       may cause delays. On top of that there is a potential compounding of delays: one
       delay causes the project to conflict with another project along all these dimensions
       and that causes new delays.



7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners


(a) Borrower/implementing agencies: No issues raised


(b) Cofinanciers: Not applicable


(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                             20

                          Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing



(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                      Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
          Components                                 Estimate (USD
                                    (USD millions)                         Appraisal
                                                         millions)

ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE                     170.3              204.5              120

TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT                       25.0               29.8              119
PUBLIC TRANSPORT                         10.4               12.2              117
ROAD MAINTENANCE                         12.8               15.4              120
CONTROL OF VEHICLE
                                           2.1                2.4             114
EMISSIONS
INSTITUTIONAL
                                           3.0                3.5             117
DEVELOPMENT
 120




             Total Baseline Cost        223.6              267.8              120

Physical Contingencies
                                         22.4                 0.0               --

Price Contingencies
                                         21.8                 0.0               --
              Total Project Costs       267.8              267.8
Interest during construction             17.4                 0.0               --
Front-end fee IBRD                         1.0                1.0             100
      Total Financing Required          286.2              268.8               94




(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                       Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                     Cofinancing     (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)     millions)
Borrower                                            186.2           168.8        91
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
Civil works                                          76.6            86.0       112
Goods                                                11.2            11.0        98
Consulting services & training                         2.2             2.0       91
Front-end fee                                          1.0             1.0      100
Unallocated                                            9.0             0.0        --
Total                                               100.0           100.0       100




                                             21

                                    Annex 2. Outputs by Component


      The Project has six components: Road Infrastructure, Public Transport, Traffic
      Management, Road Maintenance, Environment Improvement and Technical Assistance.
      In all, 59 contracts were awarded. They are summarized in Tables A2.1 and A2.2.
      Below the first table attention is drawn to complications that arose with the larger clusters
      of works contracts.

      Table A2.1: Civil Works Implemented and Equipment Procured and Installed
PAD                                                                   Planned                      Final
         Description                                Commentary                   Final Status
Nr.                                                                   Length                       Cost
                                                                        km                       RMB000
RD       Road Works
RD 1.1   Zhonghua Street                                                  3.64  completed          31,630
                                                                                2007
RD 1.2   Jianshe Street                                                   1.27  completed          12,191
                                                                                2005
RD 1.3   South Jianhua Street                                             1.55  completed    )
RD 1.4   North Jianhua Street                                             2.36  completed    )     90,351
RD 2.6   Jianhua Railway Underpass (32m)        see RD1.4                 0.03  completed    )
RD 1.5   East Huainan Street                                              4.40  completed )        49,131
RD 3.1   Huainan Road - Tiyu Street                                       0.51  deleted, see 1.5
                                                                                )
RD 1.6   West Huainan Street                    includes 2 flyovers       2.70  completed          57,768
                                                                                2005)
RD 3.5   Huainan Road - Jianshe Street                                    0.40  completed )        44,893
RD 3.6   Huainan Road - Pingan Street                                     0.41  completed )       103,132
                                       subtotal                           3.51                    205,793
RD 1.7   Shigang Street                         Extension of Zhonghua     2.97  completed          92,000
                                                N. of Heping to 2RR             2008

RD 2.4   Shigang Street Railway Flyover         or underpass?             0.82  Completed          81,027
RD 1.8   Northern Tiyu Street                   Maintenance issue         2.64  1st contract      104,030
                                                                                terminated, 2nd
                                                                                completed
                                                                                2007)
RD 2.5   Tiyu Street Railway flyover            see RD1.8                 1.01
                                                                                )
RD 1.9   Southern Tiyu Street                                             3.62  completed          29,584
Added    Fuqiang Street (Donggang- Sth 2RR)                              ?                         18,680
later    Zhonghua Street (North 2RR -                                    ?                         23,391
         N Outer Ring)
         North 2RR - Hongxing Street Flyover                             ?                         43,991
         Ping'an Street widening                5 small contracts                                 103,100


         Railway Underpasses ­ Overpasses
RD 2.1   Heping Road - elevated crossing        Railway denied permit     1.92  Canceled
RD 2.7   Heping Road - underpass (25m)                                    0.03  Canceled
RD 3.4   Heping Road - Zhonghua Street                                    0.63  Canceled
RD 2.2   Cang'an Road cable-stayed bridge +     widened underpass         1.07  completed         153,246
                                                                                2006)
RD 3.3   Cang'an Road - Zhonghua Street         combined w/ RD2.2         0.49  completed )        35,194



                                                      22

                                       Subtotal                             1.56                  188,440
RD 2.3 Yuhua Street Railway Underpass           widening                    1.00 completed         51,374


       Interchanges
RD 3.2 Heping Road - Tiyu Street                flyover (not more)          0.40 completed         40,702
Added  Zhaolingpu flyover                       Shigang/Zhonghua           ?     completed         51,723
                                                crosses 2nd RR


TM     Traffic Management & Road Safety


TM 1   Bicycle System Improvement
TM 1.1 Bicycle management facilities            Separation barrier, road   13.40 included in
                                                signs & markings                 other contracts

TM 1.2 Bicycle exclusive roads
TM     Gongnong Road - bicycle and              Two bicycle lanes &         0.13 canceled when
1.2.1  pedestrian only road                     two sidewalks                    Railway denied
TM     Huaibei Road                             Two bicycle lanes &         1.53 canceled when
1.2.2                                           two sidewalks                    Railway denied

TM     Gongnong Road to Huaibei Road            bicycle/ pedestrian         0.34 Railway denied
1.2.3                                           exclusive underpass              permit
Added  Southeast 2nd Ring NMV lanes                                         8.00 completed         35,857
                                                                                 2006


TM 2   Pedestrian System Improvement
TM 2.1 Pedestrian overpass Zhonghua street -                                     canceled
       Yuhua Street - Xinkai Road

TM 2.2 Pedestrian overpass Huainan Road -                                        completed         3,683
       Qingyuan Street
TM 2.3 Pedestrian overpass Yuhua to                                              canceled
       Qingyuan - Dajing Street

TM 2.4 Pedestrian overpass Heping Road -                                         canceled
       Guangan Street - Yucai Street
TM 2.5 Pedestrian System Improvement            signals, zebra crossings,        NCB CN/02.2           ??
                                                markings


TM3    Traffic facilities on arterial roads     Signs & signals                                    5,060


TM 4   Junction Channelization                  24 junctions                  24 completed         4,473
                                                                                 2004
                                                2nd set:42 junctions          42 Completed         7,264
TM 5   Pilot Bus Priority Scheme
       Zhongshan Street                                                          discontinued      11,630
       Jianshe Street (Huainan to Heping        separate contract           4.00       not         41,000
       Street)                                                                   commissioned


TM 6   Area Traffic Control System                                                         RMB     19,563
                                                                                           AUD     2,812
TM 7   Parking Management                       with TM3


TM 8   Road Safety & Black Spot Analysis        with TA contract




                                                      23

TM 9- TA from Education, Design &
12    Training




                                     24

PT        Public Transport
PT 1      Reconstructn of Railway Stn Square                                       completed 2006      7,099
PT 2      Computer systems (110 sets)          control room, 5 sites                                   1,500
PT 3      Bus stop reconstruction (10 stops)   on Zhongshan Street
PT 4 & 5                                       [no info]
PT 6      Bus maintenance plant (Nanjiao)      3 floors, 1,000 m3                                     18,373
PT 7      Xiwang Terminal & maintenance                                            completed 2008      9,317
          workshop
PT 8      Tangu Terminal & Depot                                                   completed 2008      5,461
PT 9      Bus route upgraded                                                                )
PT 10     Bus route upgraded                                                                )         25,000
PT 11     Bus route upgraded                                                                )


RM        Road Maintenance
RM 1.1    Cang'an West Road maintenance                                     2.934 completed 2003      15,759
RM 1.2    Yuhua Underpass                      Including widening                 completed 2007      49,648
RM 1.3    Zhaiying Street maintenance                                             completed 2005      12,222
RM 1.4    Yuejin Road (E-W crossing                                         2.795                     20,718
          Zhaiying Street)


RM 2.1.1  Equipment: mixing plant, milling &                                                        >$14,000
          excavation plant, 6 trucks

RM 2.1.2  Pavement management system & TA      Goodpointe (USA)                                         $335
RM 2.1.3
RM 2.1.4
Added     Heping East Rd maintenance            independent                       completed 2006      35,297


EN        Environmental Monitoring             4 MV emission control              completed            5,660
                                               stations & equipment

EN 1      Noise barriers
EN 2      Double glazing


TA        Technical Assistance (see below)                                                            10,980


          GRAND TOTAL                                                             Contracted total  1,238,953
                                                                                                   ($181,133)

      Note: The above cost data are incomplete and may not add to the total shown.

      A. Road Infrastructure

      1) RD1.2--Jianshe South Street
      The contracted was awarded in November 2001 and the resettlement process began. The
      works started at the end of September 2002 and were expected to be complete by the end
      of June 2003. However, the resettlement problem of the section connecting Jianshe
      Street and Longteng Road was not solved until October 2003, delaying the full opening
      to traffic until November 2004 and final hand-over in 2005.




                                                      25

2) RD 1.3 Jianhua South Street and RD1.4 Jianhua North Street
The contract was signed in March 2003 and terminated for non-performance in
September 2004. The works were re-procured and a new contract was signed in October
2004. A bridge over the Shijin Canal was added as a design variation. The works for
Jianhua South Street were completed by August 2007.

3) RD1.8 Tiyu North Street and RD1.9 Widening of Tiyu South Street
The contract for these works was awarded in May 2003. The contract for the northern
section was terminated in September 2004 when it was decided to switch from underpass
of the railway to overpass; it was redesigned and rebid, the new contract being awarded
in June 2005. The road works, including a newly added bridge across the Shijin Canal,
were opened at the end of 2007.

4) Huaibei Road missing link
These works were cancelled due to resettlement difficulties.


B. Public Transport

1) Reconstruction of Bus Terminal at the Railway Station Square
The originally planned works were bid in 2003, but the contract had to be cancelled when
the City announced its intention to radically redesign the forecourt. An improved design
was made in accordance with the City's comprehensive urban plan, and the new works
were bid and began in October 2004. The main building was finished in March 2005,
and the other parts commissioned in January 2005.

2) Bus Maintenance Depot
A construction contract was awarded, but shortly thereafter it was decided to move to a
site at Nanjiao, so the works were redesigned and rebid.




                                            26

                                        Table A2.2: Technical Assistance Contracts
                                                 (all values in RMB 000)

                                                                Actual
     Item Contract                                    Bank                  Type of
                          Name of Contract                      Contract                          Contractor
     No.   No.                                       Funded                Contract
                                                                Amount

                                                                            Complex
       1  TA3.1.1a Works Supervision                 5,600                                      BCEOM (France)
                                                                          time-based

                   Works Supervision                                        Complex
          TA3.1.1b                                                                       Shanghai Transport University
                   (SJZ financed)                                         time-based

                   Urban Transport Planning and                          Small contract
       2  TA3.1.2                                      950       950                          Southeast University
                   Computer Software Development                           time-based

                   Shijiazhuang Current Road                              Lump sum
       3  TA3.1.3                                      300       300                          Southeast University
                   Network Improvement                                   small contract
27
                                                                          Lump sum
       4  TA3.1.4  Long-tunnel Jacking Technology      400       399.5                   Shanghai Transport University
                                                                         small contract

                   High-Intensity Bituminous                              Lump sum      Hebei Transport Science Research
       5  TA3.1.5                                      400       400
                   Concrete Pavement Research                            small contract              Institute

                                                                          Lump sum
       6  TA3.2.2  Parking Planning Research           450       450                          Southeast University
                                                                         small contract
                                                                          Lump sum
       7  TA3.2.3  Road Safety Pilot Research          350       350                     Northern Transport University
                                                                         small contract
                                                                          Lump sum      Ministry of Public Security, Traffic
       8  TA3.2.1a ATC system, local                             400
                                                                         small contract  Management Research Institute
                                                     1,100
                                                                          Lump sum
       9  TA3.2.1b ATC system, international                     661                           PPK from Australia
                                                                         small contract

                   Traffic Management and                                 Lump sum
      10  TA3.2.4                                      700       700                    Hebei Transport Technical College
                   Enforcement                                           small contract




                                                            27

                            Public Transport Computer                            Lump sum         Beijing Transport Research
        11      TA3.3.1                                         500       500
                            Management System                                   small contract  Institute/ Golden Sun Company

                            Public Transport Planning and Bus                    Lump sum
        12      TA3.3.2                                         300       300                         Southeast University
                            Route Optimizing Research                           small contract

                            Road Maintenance                                     Lump sum
        13      TA3.4.1                                         500                             North Communication University
                            Countermeasures Research                            small contract

                            Road Management System                        700
                                                                                 Lump sum
        14     TA3.4.2a     Technical Standard Research                                         North Communication University
                                                                                small contract
                            (local)
                                                                400
        15                  Road Management System
                                                                                 Lump sum
               TA3.4.2b     Technical Standard Research                   175.3                           Li Ningyuan
                                                                                small contract
                            (international)
28
                            Municipal Facility Management                        Lump sum
        16     TA3.4.3**                                                3,346.5                  Goodpointe Technology Inc.
                            System                                                 contract

                            Motor Vehicle Emission Control                      Small contract        Tsinghua University/
        17      TA3.5.1                                       1,200     1,200
                            Strategy                                             time-based      Jinshi Shengbang Company

                            Additional items
                                                                                 Lump sum
        18      TA3.3.3*    Urban BRT planning                           150                          Southeast University
                                                                                small contract
                            Non-Motorized Traffic
        19                                                                                            Tsinghua University
                            Improvement

                                                               13,150  10,980
                               Total
                                                              ($1.92m) ($1.61m)


                 Note:      *Financed by SJZ municipality

      As of December 31, 2008




                                                                     28

              Annex 3. Economic Analysis and Performance Monitoring


The economic cost-benefit analysis underpinning appraisal was done competently. It
used a state-of-the-art four-stage urban travel demand model to estimate transport
network traffic benefits from all those project components that were expected to improve
traffic performance. Values were placed on savings in personal travel time and vehicle
operating costs, which were expected to be the `lion's share' of total project benefits.
Other benefits such as improved traffic safety (fewer crashes) and reduced auto emissions
were not evaluated in monetary terms for lack of reliable data. The overall economic
return (ER) was estimated, in the most likely growth scenario, at 29% (NPV of $390
million).

The SJZ PO has not yet provided any ex post economic evaluation of the project. It is a
technically complex task, since it involves modeling traffic flows at many complex
intersections and short street sections where localized improvements were made,
measured against a `without project' alternative scenario.

In the absence of a formal re-evaluation, it can nonetheless be assessed that the City was
efficient in its investment choices: it chose the right locations for investment in terms of
traffic priority and avoided over-designing the intersections. Construction costs were not
subject to major over-runs, traffic volumes have grown broadly in line with appraisal
forecasts, and the unit values of road user costs have if anything grown in real terms. It is
therefore reasonable to conclude that the overall economic return measured after
completion ­when construction costs and opening-year traffic are known but future
traffic growth remains to some extent uncertain-- is at least as good as the appraisal
forecast.

An ER as high as 29% is robust to uncertainties within likely ranges. Given the
programmatic nature of the project, with construction occurring at a variety of locations
under separate contracts, the effects of delays will have been mixed. Where
improvements were lumpy, in the sense of not generating benefits until the full
investment was completed, delays during construction will have detracted from the ER;
the bulk of the funds were spent but may have yielded no benefit for a year or two. On
the other hand, where the start of construction was delayed but the implementation period
was not seriously stretched, the ER will have been enhanced because the traffic volumes
will have grown in the meantime. The experience was a mixture of these two cases, with
the effects on the ER tending to cancel each other out.




                                             29

    Table A3.1: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS: TARGETS AND ACTUALS FROM 1998 THROUGH 2008


                                                                Actual     Mid-2003     Actual      Actual       Actual     End-2006       Actual      Actual    Actual
         Indicators               Defined As           1998
                                                                 2002      TARGET       2003         2004         2005      TARGET           2006       2007      2008
     Objective A. Develop a stronger and more efficient urban road network
      Cross-town journey    a) Heping Rd (east to    15.1 km/hr            18 km/hr                                         25 km/hr      40 km/hr     30 km/hr  19 km/hr
      (travel) speed        west 2nd Ring,), 12.5 km
                            b) Zhonghua Rd (Heping
                            to South 2nd RR), 5.9    15.1 km/hr 21.3 km/hr 20 km/hr    20.8 km/hr  21.3 km/hr  30 km/hr     25 km/hr      28.7 km/hr   26 km/hr  21 km/hr
                            km
                            c) Tiyu Road (North 2nd
                            RR to South 2RR), 7.6    14.9 km/hr            18 km/hr    22.3 km/hr  23.4 km/hr               25 km/hr      32.6 km/hr   25 km/hr  36 km/hr
                            km
                            d) Shigang Road (North
                            2nd RR to Heping) 3.1    14.8 km/hr            18 km/hr                                         30 km/hr                             33 km/hr
                            km
     Objective B. Improve the overall efficiency and safety of the road system for all modes of transport, while preserving the benefits of the bicycle
      1. Accidents (nr)     1. In City proper           1,325      3,539      1,193       1,213         590         580        1,060         259         322       769
      - dead persons                                      428        142       385           83          68          80         340           65         114       103
      - injured persons                                 1,040      1,249       936          434         461         600         832          240         293       186

30
      2. Vehicle delay      2a. Zhonghua Street        43.5%        38.9%    35.6%      38.4%         39%         36%         25.7%          38%          42%      26%
      ratio (= total stop   (Gongnong to Heping)
      time/total trip time) 2b. Zhongshan Street       28.4%        30.1%    28.4%      31.2%         30%         29%         15.5%          36%          17%      14%
                            (Zhonghua to Tiyu)

      3. Dedicated cycle-   3. In City proper         66.2 km     74.2 km   106.4 km    89.6 km     100.5 km     100.5 km     130 km       89.5 km      120 km    140 km
      ways (km)             (single direction)

      4. Mode split         4a. JingGuang Rail Line  (E-W)
      across screen lines   (1) PCU in peak hour      17,650     24,800      24,000     25,100       25,500       27,060      27,000        28,700      28,800    26,400
      for vehicles and      (2) Bicycle vol/peak hr   52,455     51,400      45,000     50,200       50,325       48,200      42,000        47,218      62,126    40,000
      bicycles
                            4b. Zhongshan Str (N-S)
                            (1) PCU in peak hour      25,900     32,500      32,000     33,400       36,300       28,100      36,000        28,700      38,317    34,200
                            (2) Bicycle vol/peak hr   78,400     87,000      94,400     85,750       90,320       87,400     105,000        85,800      76,736    76,200




                                                                                       30

    Table A3.1: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (continued)

                                                               Actual    Mid-2003     Actual     Actual    Actual    End-2006   Actual    Actual    Actual
     Indicators            Defined As                 1998
                                                                2002     TARGET         2003      2004      2005     TARGET     2006      2007      2008
     Objective C. Develop stronger and more effective public transport services
      1. Buses operating   In City                        919     1,515       1,174        1,619    1,663     1,789       1,429    2,216     2,596     3,121
      2. Bus ridership     In City                       3.0%     4.4%        3-4%                  5.1%      6.0%                 6.8%      7.6%      8.6%
      3. Bus occupancy     In City                       70%      77.6%       72%                   64.3%     58.6%       75%      60.5%     60.8%     54.4%
      4. Staff/bus ratio   SPTC buses                    To be       4:1      To be       3.26:1     3.4:1     3.2:1      To be     3.2:1     2.8:1     2.4:1
      5. Revenue/ bus      SPTC buses               determined  Y94,400  determined     Y85,300  Y119,700  Y131,600  determined Y108,000  Y115,000  Y105,100
      6. Expenses/ bus     SPTC buses                          Y100,700                 Y87,600  Y127,100  Y144,000             Y133,000  Y130,000  Y141,100
     Objective D. Improve the quality and efficiency of road maintenance activities in the City
      1. Improve road      1a. High quality as % of     57.8%     58.7%       60%         60.2%     61.3%     63.6%       65%      68.5%     69.1%     69.5%
      condition            trunk road network
                           1b. High quality as %         46%      49.2%       50%         49.7%     52.3%     52.6%       60%      54.3%     58.2%     62.7%
                           secondary streets net

31    2. Increase road     2a. City budget               20.5      23.5       21.0          29.7     31.0      48.7       21.1      47.1      76.1      80.1
      maintenance (RM)     (RMB million)
      budget &             2b. Required RM               315.8    379.5       340.0        312.4    325.0     372.3        342     409.2.    355.8     542.5
      expenditure          (000m2)
                           2c. Actual funds spent          8.8     12.6       15.9          10.8     15.0      19.3       21.1      21.7      27.4      30.4
                           for RM (RMB million)
                           2d. Actual roads              149.5    168.2        265         280.8    301.5     333.7        342     350.2     359.3     372.2
                           maintained (000m2)
     Objective E. Environmental protection and improvement
      1. Establish vehicle In City proper                   0         3          1             3        3         6          4         6         6         9
      emission inspection
      and monitor
      stations
      2. Increase number   In City proper                   0    26,500       6,000       12,220   12,600    11,150      24,000   19,850    82,835   100,000
      of vehicle emission
      inspections




                                                                                     31

   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                Responsibility/
          Names                       Title              Unit
                                                                    Specialty
Lending
Richard Scurfield     Principal Transport Specialist    EASTE Task Manager
Gary Fauth            Consultant                              Transport Economics
Gladys Frame          Consultant                              Traffic Management
Dan Gibson            Environmental Specialist          EACCF Social, Resettlement
Michael Johnson       Consultant                              Road Maintenance
Richard Meakin        Consultant                              Public Transport
Hoi-Chan Nguyen       Lawyer                            LEGEA
Gordon Nielson        Consultant                              Public Transport
Setty Pendakur        Consultant                              Traffic Management
Anil Somani           Environmental Specialist          EASES
John Walker           Consultant                              Air Quality

Supervision/ICR
Christopher Bennett   Senior Transport Specialist       ECSSD Road maintenance
Edward Dotson         TTL                               EAPTE Urban transport
Boping Gao            Highway Engineer                  EASTE Road engineer
Yi Geng               Financial Management Specialist   EAPCO Financial mgt
                      Senior Social Development
Zhefu Liu                                               EASCS Resettlement
                      Specialist
Shomik Mehndiratta    Senior Transport Specialist       EASTE Urban transport
Rodney Stickland      Consultant                        EASTE Traffic management
Roy Sumner            Consultant                        SASDE
Chongwu Sun           Senior Environmental Specialist   EASCS Environment
Xiaogang Yang         Consultant                        EASCS
Dawei Yang            Procurement Specialist            EAPCO Procurement
Samuel Zimmerman      Senior Urban Transport Specialist ETWTR UT operations
Yan Zong              Deputy TTL/TTL                    EASTE Urban transport
Youlan Zou            Consultant                        EASCS Resettlement




                                        32

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                US$ 000 (including travel
                                No. of staff weeks
                                                        and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                         105.24
  FY00                                 66                      237.36
  FY01                                 41                       60.93

                        Total:        107                      403.53
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                 17                       31.05
  FY03                                 10                       11.64
  FY04                                 11                       48.11
  FY05                                 20                       43.55
  FY06                                 17                       37.91
  FY07                                 13                       41.08
  FY08                                   5                      33.80
  FY09                                   8                      62.72

                        Total:        101                      309.86




                                    33

                           Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


The base-line survey carried out in 2000 recorded the high concentration of population
living within the first ring (29%) and between the first and second rings (60%). Within
the first ring the population density was high: 20-30,000 people per sq. km. Jobs were
located close to home, with nearly 95% of jobs being located within the first and second
rings. Commutes were therefore highly concentrated within the second ring, and trips
were short: 80 percent were less than 6 km. Chinese research shows that cycling is
preferred to bus for trips of less than 4.6 km or 23 minutes. The 2000 survey showed an
average trip distance of 3.3 km, an average trip time of 27 minutes and over 85 percent of
trips took less than 40 minutes. This suggested that non-motorized transport could easily
cover the majority of traffic demand in Shijiazhuang. In fact 70 percent of trips to work
were by bicycle, as were half of all trips to school. Walking had the next largest share of
trips. Cars and taxis accounted for about 35% of trips for business but less than 10
percent of trips to work and shopping. Many main intersections on the first ring road saw
more than 12,000 bicycles per hour during rush hours, with as many as 18,000 on
Zhongshan Street. The same intersections also had to handle large numbers of
pedestrians ­up to 8,000 per hour. Motor vehicles commonly spent 25-40 percent of
travel time waiting at these crowded junctions.

Growing incomes are of course closely accompanied by growing car ownership.
However, by 2005 the average income per person was still only about $1,700, so private
cars were out of the reach for most people. On the other hand, electric bicycles became
very popular and by 2006 made up 22 percent of all bicycles.

Cyclists in 2006 reported average trip times of 27 minutes. The most common reasons
for choosing bike were comfort and because it avoided traffic jams. Cyclists chose not to
take buses because they were too crowded or their routes were not convenient. Crossing
intersections was the most bothersome aspect of their trips, though many felt satisfied and
safe using this mode of travel. Some expressed concern about the higher speeds of
electric bikes. A common complaint was the lack of attention that pedestrians paid to
traffic lights and limited enforcement by traffic police.

The survey concluded with a set of recommendations for building up awareness on
biking and walking.

The bus survey focused on the coverage of the route network. The city was well served
by 94 routes; 84 percent of the central business district (within the first ring) was within
300m of a bus stop, and for the city within the second ring, 53 percent. The average
spacing between stops was 520m. Trip length averaged just under 5 km. Routes
overlapped adequately, though only 15 percent of trips required no transfer; 62 percent
required one transfer and 23 percent involved two or three transfers. The busiest hours,
as one might expect, were those starting at 7:30 and 10:30 a.m. on weekdays, with
boarding and alighting heavily concentrated in Zhongshan Street. On weekends traffic
was evenly spread throughout the day from 9:00 a.m. until 6:00 p.m. While buses were



                                              34

more than full during rush hours, occupancy over the whole week, including off-peak
hours and weekends, averaged only 30-40 percent. Their median speed was 19-21
km/hour. Passengers generally approved of the bus quality, the stop facilities and
walking distance to/from the nearest stop, but were critical of low speeds and poor
punctuality.

The survey of Zhongshan Street's bus priority lanes and their users reported that traffic
moved faster after the lanes started operating: `before' speeds averaged 10 km/h during
most of the day, but 15 km/h `after'. Bus dwell times at stops were halved from 70
seconds on average to 38 seconds, while passenger transfer time and distance between
one route and another shrank appreciably and bus punctuality improved. Bus ridership
went from 7 million in 2003 to 17.5 million in 2005. Air quality also improved. A very
large majority of passengers (85-95 percent) reported satisfaction with the quality of bus
service ("convenient, saved time, distance between bus stops was reasonable, and the
lanes improved Shijiazhuang's urban image"). However, about two thirds felt that traffic
flows at the intersections were "not in good order" and a sizeable minority rated traffic
regulation as unsatisfactory. Their overall conclusion was highly favorable.




                                             35

               Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


Not applicable.




                                     36

     Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


The Bank requested the PO to prepare the Borrower's ICR on January 7, 2009, but no
ICR was received. The Bank's draft ICR was sent to Shijiazhuang on June 3, 2009 for
comment. The PO's comments (received on June 19, 2009) were minor and have been
incorporated in the text.




                                         37

     Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not applicable.




                                   38

Annex 9. Implementation of Resettlement and Environmental Management Plan

A. Resettlement

During the course of project preparation and implementation, the main resettlement issue
was how to apply the agreed procedures and compensation rules.

At the outset a `Guideline of Relocation and Rehabilitation for the Shijiazhuang Urban
Transport Project' was distributed to each construction agency. A pamphlet on
`Relocation Process' was sent to each affected household, setting out compensation
policies and rates. A `Grievance and Appeal' sheet was given to each project-affected
person.

An external monitor was duly appointed and a resettlement launch workshop was held.

In the first year of implementation several people whose housing was designated for
demolition complained that the compensation offered to them was too low. This was
variously attributed to undervaluation of the property, mis-interpretation as to specific
compensation rates, and to changes in the rates over time. In response the Bank
resettlement specialist aided SJZ resettlement officials and house evaluators in
conducting consultation workshops. Face-to-face consultations were held with each
affected household.

A distinctive situation arose when several households in two adjoining apartment blocks
objected to the compensation and/or alternative housing offered. After negotiation, the
PO decided to rescind the demolition order. After further consultation with the residents,
some of whom had already moved, 95 out of 130 households chose to stay on. The
buildings were near to a flyover, but the associated footpath and cycle lane were
narrowed somewhat to allow sufficient clearance and measures were taken to reduce
noise intrusion into the buildings.

The area of land actually acquired and the number and area of buildings actually
demolished turned out 10-25 percent less than planned, as shown in the table below.


                                 Land and Buildings Acquired
                                     As of December 31, 2008
                                                  Total planned     Total finished

       Land acquisition (hectares)                       40.33           29.83

       Demolished houses (m2)                          235,020          198,197

       Enterprises, institutions and commercial
                                                           293              269
       organizations demolished

       Expenditures disbursed (RMB 000)                560,526          499,104




                                               39

B. Managing Environmental Impacts

The Bank has recognized Shijiazhuang's implementation of the Environmental
Management Plan as `best practice'. The following summarizes its features.

1. Institutional Arrangement

The Shijiazhuang Project Office set up an Environmental Sub-component Management
Office (EMO), whose main responsibilities were communicating with other sub-POs,
scheduling and managing the environmental monitoring work, putting forward potential
solutions to the problems identified, and compiling progress reports. The City
government set up a separate budget for this work.

2. Professional Preparation

The EMP was compiled by a leading Chinese technical institute, certified by the State
Environmental Protection Agency. It defined measurable and comparable environmental
indicators and monitored them from before the start of implementation, generating
baseline data for subsequent comparison.

Tsinghua University and a local design institute wrote a paper on "Strategic Research on
Shijiazhuang Motorized Vehicles Pollution Control", and also set up an air quality model
for estimating future air quality.

3. Management of Construction Units

The content of the EMP was incorporated in all relevant civil works contracts, making
the environmental protection measures legally binding on the construction units. The
EMO took full ownership of enforcing compliance. It compiled and published a
Handbook on Environmental Protection during Road Construction.

4. Training

The EMO organized many training workshops, including visits to national and
international sites. This training targeted technical people and construction units.

5. Data Collection, Processing and `Seeing the Big Picture'

The EMO routinely reviewed compliance with the EMP on each road section under
construction or finished. It evaluated the data collected, and put forward solutions to the
problems it found. It compiled a summary of all the lessons and experience it found, in
the light of which it adjusted the environmental management and monitoring plan.

6. Public Participation & Dissemination of Information

The Shijiazhuang Environmental Monitoring Unit did a survey at project sites, including
many sensitive points such as schools and hospitals. Before construction began, the
environmental management plan was fully disclosed to the public, including the



                                              40

construction plans and the content of environmental evaluation. Feedback from the
public was reported back to the EMO. After digesting this feedback, the EMO proposed
solutions and discussed them at public consultation meetings.

                                            ------

The SUTPO Environmental Unit carried out the following tasks:

1)     All works under construction were subject to environmental supervision and
monitoring. The environmental impacts due to construction were evaluated, and control
measures to solve the environment problems during construction were developed to
mitigate these impacts.

2)     Based on previous good practice, the tracing, supervision and monitoring of the
works under demolition and construction was strengthened.

3)     Environmental supervision and monitoring of air and noise in the vicinity of the
works was conducted, including on Zhonghua North Street (Heping Road ­ North
Second Ring), Pingan Reconstruction (Huitong - Heping), and North Second Ring
Flyover crossing Zhonghua North Street, covering all the main environmentally sensitive
spots.

4)     The Training Brochure on the Road Construction Environmental Protection
Requirements was supplemented and improved, together with development of a training
plan on civilized construction environment protection, targeting construction units.

5)     The above actions were taken in collaboration with Shijiazhuang Municipal
Construction Bureau, Environment Protection Bureau, the Municipal Environment
Monitoring Station, and the Municipal Environment Supervising Team.

6)     The environmental unit worked with the Complaint Letter and Request Handling
Office and the Informant Center under the Shijiazhuang Environmental Protection
Bureau, combining public participation and complaint handling, taking advantage of the
special report hotline (telephone), and the special Shijiazhuang Urban Transport Project
Environmental Protection Complaint Record was established.




                                             41

                      Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents


1.     --, "Shijiazhuang Public Transport Survey Results", Dept of Transportation
Engineering, Shijiazhuang Railway Institute, August 2007

2.     --, "Shijiazhuang: Non-Motorized Traffic Improvement Study", World Bank
Beijing Office (Yang Xinmiao, main researcher), July 2006

3.     Brendan Finn, "Current Status of State-owned Enterprises and Market Sector
Reform in Urban Bus Services in Chinese Cities", World Bank, March 2006

4.     --, "The Promotion of Pilot Study on Road Traffic Safety of Shijiazhuang City:
Study Report", Beijing Landcom Science and Technology Ltd., November 2008




                                          42

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 31281




                                                                                  Tion Yuan Starting Station                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BeiErHuan Parking Ground
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHIJIAZHUANG URBAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XiGuCheng Starting Station                                                                                                                                                                                              TRANSPORT PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HIGHW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROPOSED TRANSPORT
                                                                                                                    SHIGANG                                                        ER HUAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                     RD.(N)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SHIZHENG

             )W
               (.DR                                                                                                        STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE
                   N
                    AUH                                       TEERTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ER                         HUAN  RD.(N)                                                                                           JINGSHEN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TooYuon                                                                                                                                                                                                          ROAD MAINTENANCE WORKS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Starting Station
                       RE                                           G                                                                                        BOUNZHUANG RD.                                 YIZHONG RD.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RAILWAY UNDERPASSES
                                                                     N
                                                                      AIXG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MOTORW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FLYOVER BRIDGES

                                                                          N
                                                                           EHC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NMV PREDOMINANT ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TEERTS                                                                                     TEERTS                                               TEERTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AY                                                IN TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AUHN                                                                                                                                                                         NEW NMV PREDOMINANT ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PEDESTRIAN FLYOVERS
                                                                                 HEPING             RD.(W)                                                                                                                                         EHSN                                                                                       UYIT                                                     AIJ

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AIJ                                                                                                                                                                             TEERTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             UG                                            )E(.DR                                                                               BUS DEVICES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N                                                 N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AT                                                                                                                              COUNTY BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HEPING RD.(E)TEERTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AUH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HEPING            RD.(E)                                            RE                         KaiFaGu                                         PROVINCE BOUNDARIES (INSET)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Starting
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Station                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES (INSET)
                                                                                                        XINGKAI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                YUEJINRD.
                                                                                                               RD.                                                                                                                                                                                          TEERTS
                             XINHUARD.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EHSN                                      N         TEERTS                                                                                                                                                                       BaiFoGun
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ZHENGDONG RD.                                                          AIJ                                    A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G                                                                                                                                      TANGU                                         Starting
                                    YO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N                                                                                                                                                                                   Station                                               0                   1                   2                   3
                                                                                                                                                           MINZU RD.
                                      UYI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AUG         LACUY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ZHONGSHAN                             RD.(E)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TIYU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ZHAL                                                                                       DongErHuan
                                         STREET            ZHONGSHAN                            RD.(W)                                                                                             Rail Station                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Overhaul
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      STREET
                                                                                                                               TEERTS                                       STREET                 Starting Station                                                                                                                                                                                                 YING                                                                                   Ground



                                                                              YUHUA RD.(W)                                                                             CHANG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               YUHUA   RD.(E)                                           STREET

                                                                                                                                                                                                              PING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             XIUMEN                                                  QINGYUAN        YUHUA RD.(E)
)W                                                                                                                                                                   NAN
  (.DR                                                                                          GONGNONG RD.                                                                                STREET HUAIBEI RD.    AN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    STREET         STREET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HEILONGJIANG
      N
       AUH
          RE                                    TEERTS                                                                               AUHG
                                                                                                                                         N                                                                                                                                                   STREET
                                                                                                                                          O                                          SHENGLI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MONGOLIA
                                                                                                                                           HZ
                                                             CANG AN RD.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JILIN
                                                      IYUO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sea

                                                          Y                         TEERTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HUAINAN RD.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           HUAINAN RD.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     XIADMACUN                                                                                                                                                           LIAONING      DEM.   Japan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PEOPLE'S
                                                                                          IQ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REP. OF

                                                                                            G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BEIJING           Bo           KOREA
                                                                                             N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TIANJIN
                                                                                              O                                              TEERTS                                                                                                                             DONGGANGTOU                                                                                                                                                                                  )E(.DR                                                                                               MONGOL    BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NEI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HEBEI      Hai                 REP. OF
                                                                                               H                                                   AUHG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N                                                                                                           Shijiazhuang                KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                     SHENGLI                                                                                                                                                                  DONGGANG     RD.                                                                                                      AUH                                                                                               SHANXI       SHANDONG     Yellow
                                                                                                                                                       N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    QINGHAI                    NINGXIA
                                                                                                                                                        O                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sea
                                                                                                                                                         HZ                                                                                                                    SUNGUN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GANSU
                                                                                                                                                                                             STREET                                                        TEERTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EHSN                                                                                                           TEERTS                                                             TEERTS                              RE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JIANGSU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         UG                                                                                                                SHAANXI    HENAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AT                                                                                                                                     ANHUI        SHANGHAI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HUBEI                               East
                                                                                                ER HUAN    RD. (S)                                                                                                                                                   AIJ                                                                                                              AUHN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AIJ                                                                                                                                                               SICHUAN                                        ZHEJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JIANGXI               China

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HUNAN                                  Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ER HUAN   RD.(S)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GUIZHOU                         FUJIAN


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          YUNNAN                                                TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GUANGXI   GUANGDONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                           RA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                                                                                                       M                                                    HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VIETNAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VIETNAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                                                                           N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ANMARAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                                                                                                                 MYM LAO PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LAO PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                             DEM. REP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DEM. REP.                          South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HAINAN       China Sea                PHILIPPINES


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FEBRUARY 2001

