                                   Document of
                                The World Bank



                                                   Report No: ICR2151



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                    (IDA-H2630 TF-90858 TF-57330)



                                     ON AN

                                 IDA GRANT
                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR2.37 MILLION
                       (US$3.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     AND A

                GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY GRANT
                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$3.5 MILLION

                                       TO

                                  MONGOLIA

                                    FOR THE

    RENEWABLE ENERGY AND RURAL ELECTRICITY ACCESS PROJECT



                               December 17, 2012




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         Currency Unit = Mongolian Tugrik (MNT)

                At Appraisal                                   At Completion
         Effective October 31, 2006                        Effective June 30, 2012

           MNT 1,165 = US$1.00                             MNT 1,330 = US$1.00
           US$1.478 = SDR 1.00                              US$1.52= SDR 1.00

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1 – December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB   Asian Development Bank                       MNT    Mongolian tugrik
Aimag Equivalent to province                       MOF    Ministry of Finance
ASTAE Asia Sustainable and Alternative             NGO    Non-government Organization
      Energy Program                               NREC   National Renewable Energy Center
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                  PAD    Project Appraisal Document
CO2   Carbon Dioxide                               PDO    Project Development Objective
CPS   Country Partnership Strategy                 REAP   Renewable Energy and Rural
EA    Energy Authority                                    Electricity Access Project
GEF   Global Environment Facility                  PID    Project Information Document
GEO   Global Environment Objective                 PIU    Project Implementation Unit
GOM   Government of Mongolia                       PV     Photovoltaic
GON   Government of the Netherlands                RET    Renewable Energy Technology
GHG   Green House Gas                              R/RDHS Renewable or Renewable-diesel
ICR   Implementation Completion and                       hybrid system
      Results Report                               Soum   Subdivisions of Aimag, equivalent to
IDA   International Development                           prefecture or rural village
      Association                                  SC     Soum Center
kLh   Kilo Lumen Hour                              SSC    Sales and Service Center
kWh   Kilowatt Hour                                SHS    Solar Home System
M&E   Monitoring and Evaluation                    SIL    Specific Investment Loan
MMRE Ministry of Mineral Resources and             TA     Technical Assistance
      Energy                                       WTS    Wind Turbine System


                         Vice President:   Pamela Cox, EAPVP
                       Country Director:   Klaus Rohland, EACCF
                       Country Manager     Coralie Gevers, EACMF
                       Sector Managers:    Mark Lundell, EASCS
                   Project Team Leader:    Peter Johansen, EASWE
                      ICR Team Leader:     Peter Johansen, EASWE
                                     MONGOLIA
                 Renewable Energy and Rural Electrification Access Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development and Global Environment Objectives Design ............. 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome and Global Environmet Outcome .. 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 21
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 25
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 29
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 33
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 36
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 37
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 47
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 48
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 59
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 60

MAP IBRD 35154
A. Basic Information
                                                                      Renewable Energy for
Country:               Mongolia                Project Name:          Rural Access Project
                                                                      (REAP)
                                                                      IDA-H2630,TF-
Project ID:            P099321,P084766         L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                      90858,TF-57330
ICR Date:              12/17/2012              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      Government of
Lending Instrument:    SIL, SIL                Borrower:
                                                                      Mongolia
Original Total         XDR2.37M,                                      XDR2.31M,
                                               Disbursed Amount:
Commitment:            USD3.50M                                       USD3.03M


Environmental Category: C,C                    Focal Area: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy (MMRE) supported by Energy Authority
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Government of the Netherlands



B. Key Dates
Renewable Energy for Rural Access Project (REAP) - P099321
                                                                           Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/16/2006    Effectiveness:          05/04/2007       05/04/2007
                                                                             08/05/2009
Appraisal:            10/02/2006    Restructuring(s):
                                                                             11/04/2011
Approval:             12/19/2006    Mid-term Review:        11/30/2008       09/21/2009
                                    Closing:                12/31/2011       06/30/2012

MN- Renewable Energy for Rural Access - GEF - P084766
                                                                           Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/16/2006    Effectiveness:                           05/04/2007
                                                                             08/05/2009
Appraisal:            10/02/2006    Restructuring(s):
                                                                             11/04/2011
Approval:             12/19/2006    Mid-term Review:        11/12/2009       09/25/2009
                                    Closing:                12/31/2011       06/30/2012




                                               i
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes                                    Satisfactory
GEO Outcomes                                Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome                 Moderate
Risk to GEO Outcome                         Moderate
Bank Performance                            Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                        Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower      Ratings
Quality at Entry            Satisfactory        Government:        Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                    Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                            Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance                                     Performance


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Renewable Energy for Rural Access Project (REAP) - P099321
     Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                            Rating:
       Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                      Quality at Entry
                                 No                                  None
  at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA)
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                                 No                                  None
      time (Yes/No):                          Supervision (QSA)
     DO rating before
                          Highly Satisfactory
 Closing/Inactive status

MN- Renewable Energy for Rural Access - GEF - P084766
    Implementation                        QAG Assessments
                          Indicators                               Rating:
      Performance                               (if any)
Potential Problem Project                   Quality at Entry
                               No                                    None
 at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA)
 Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                               No                                    None
     time (Yes/No):                       Supervision (QSA)
   GEO rating before
                          Satisfactory
 Closing/Inactive Status




                                           ii
D. Sector and Theme Codes
Renewable Energy for Rural Access Project (REAP) - P099321
                                                        Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                          8                   10
General education sector                                   1                    0
Health                                                     1                    0
Renewable energy                                          90                   90


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                             25                  25
Regulation and competition policy                          25                  25
Rural services and infrastructure                          50                  50

MN- Renewable Energy for Rural Access - GEF - P084766
                                                        Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                         34                   34
Renewable energy                                          66                   66


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                             40                  40
Regulation and competition policy                          20                  20
Rural services and infrastructure                          40                  40




E. Bank Staff
Renewable Energy for Rural Access Project (REAP) - P099321
        Positions                  At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:       Pamela Cox                      James W. Adams
Country Director:     Klaus Rohland                   David R. Dollar
Sector Manager:       Mark R. Lundell                 Junhui Wu
Project Team Leader:  Peter Johansen                  Arturo S. Rivera
ICR Team Leader:      Peter Johansen
ICR Primary Author:   Ivy H. Cheng




                                             iii
MN- Renewable Energy for Rural Access - GEF - P084766
        Positions                 At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:      Pamela Cox                      James W. Adams
Country Director:    Klaus Rohland                   David R. Dollar
Sector Manager:      Mark R. Lundell                 Junhui Wu
Project Team Leader: Peter Johansen                  Arturo S. Rivera
ICR Team Leader:     Peter Johansen
ICR Primary Author:  Ivy H. Cheng


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the proposed project is to increase access to electricity and
improve reliability of electricity service among the herder population and in off-grid
soum centers.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
PDO was not revised.

Global Environment Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The global environment objective is to remove barriers to the development and use of
renewable energy technologies in grid and off-grid connected systems and reduce
emissions of carbon dioxide. The rehabilitation of the soum mini grid will further reduce
diesel fuel consumption of the hybrid systems with additional CO2 emissions reduction
benefits.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
 GEO was not revised

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally    Actual Value
                                             Values (from      Revised      Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                               approval         Target     Completion or
                                              documents)        Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   % of herders served by reliable SHS and small WTS
Value
(quantitative or 15%                        50%                           62.5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                    12/31/2011                    06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %         Appraisal target significantly surpassed.
achievement)


                                                 iv
                   Number of people in off-grid Soum centers with reliable and affordable
Indicator 2 :
                   electricity generated by renewable energy or hybrid systems
Value
(quantitative or Negligible                16,000                                18,410
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                   12/31/2011                            06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %         Appraisal target exceeded by about 2,410 persons or 15%.
achievement)

(b) GEO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                               approval            Target       Completion or
                                              documents)           Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Estimated GHG emission reduced as a result of the project (CO2 ton/year)
Value
(quantitative or 0                         9,000 ton/year                        11,333 ton/year,
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2006                   12/31/2011                            06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %         Appraisal target exceeded by 2,333 ton/year or about 26%.
achievement)


(c) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                             Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                            Revised
                                              approval                             Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Number of RET Information Centers/SSCs created
Value
(quantitative or   0                         50                                  50
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2006                12/31/2011                          06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %           Target fully met.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Total sale of SHS systems under the Project
Value
(quantitative or   0                         50,000                              67,224
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2006                12/31/2011                           06/30/2012
Comments           67,224 systems supplied and operating satisfactorily or still under warranty.
(incl. %           Exceeded appraisal target by 17,224 systems or about 34%.
achievement)

                                                   v
Indicator 3 :      Number of Soum User Associations Established
Value
(quantitative or   0                         30                                 15
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2006                 12/31/2011                         06/30/2012
Comments           15 Soum center grids are managed under Aimag utilities, the other 15 soum
(incl. %           center grids under the project were connected to the national grid and no SUA
achievement)       was established.
Indicator 4 :      Number of Soum Utilities providing systematic reports of costs and revenues
Value
(quantitative or   0                         30                                 15
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2006                12/31/2011                         06/30/2012
Comments
                   15 systems transferred to the Aimag utilities; 15 Soums connected to the grid so
(incl. %
                   no Soum utility is operating the new RETs.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :      Number of Soum grids rehabilitated
Value
(quantitative or   0                         30                                 15
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2006                12/31/2011                         06/30/2012
Comments
                   Of the 30 grids selected, GOM rehabilitated 15, leaving 15 for REAP. All had
(incl. %
                   scope of work expanded.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :      Number of RET/hybrid systems built (to replace existing diesel plants)
Value
(quantitative or   0                         20                                 15
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2006                12/31/2011                         06/30/2012
Comments
                   Of the 20 selected, GOM connected 5 to the national grid, leaving 15 for REAP.
(incl. %
                   Of which 4 funded by IDA/GEF/GON, and 11 funded by GOM.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :      National Grid-connected Renewable Energy Action Plan
Value
                                             Final Report by                    Final Report
(quantitative or
                                             2009                               completed
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2006                12/31/2011                         06/30/2012
Comments
                   Mongolia adopted a Renewable Energy Law in January 2007, which covered the
(incl. %
                   intended content of this action plan.
achievement)




                                                  vi
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

 -
                                                                               Actual
         Date ISR                                                          Disbursements
No.                      DO             GEO                IP              (USD millions)
         Archived
                                                                        Project 1 Project 2
     1   01/09/2008       S                S               S               0.40       0.40
     2   04/22/2009       S                S               MS              0.40       0.60
     3   12/11/2009       S                S               S               1.30       0.78
     4   06/27/2011      HS                S               HS              3.33       2.57
     5   01/18/2012      HS                S               HS              3.35       2.68




H. Restructuring (if any)
                                                Amount Disbursed
                                 ISR Ratings at
                Board Approved                  at Restructuring in      Reason for
Restructuring                    Restructuring
                                                   USD millions     Restructuring & Key
   Date(s)
                 PDO    GEO                                           Changes Made
                                 DO GEO IP Project1 Project 2
                Change Change
                                                                       To allow bulk
                                                                       procurement of SHS,
08/05/2009          N             S            MS   0.40               more substantial grid
                                                                       rehabilitation, and
                                                                       GOM reorganization
08/05/2009                             S       S                0.60
                                                                     Reallocation of
11/04/2011                       HS            HS   3.35             savings and closing
                                                                     date extension
                                                                     To be in sync with
11/04/2011               N             S       HS               2.68
                                                                     IDA




                                           vii
I. Disbursement Profile
P099321




P084766




                          viii
1. Project Context, Development and Global Environment Objectives Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At the time of project appraisal, Mongolia had already made strides in achieving
macroeconomic stability and fundamental structural reforms since its transition to
democracy and a market based economy. The prevailing development challenge was to
improve the lives and welfare of its people and reduce poverty by accelerating sustained
and equitable economic growth. This agenda was particularly daunting in Mongolia’s
vast rural areas where more than a million people (over 40 percent of the population)
lived, either as nomadic herders or as residents of Soum (equivalent to prefecture or
village) centers which were hubs of public and commercial institutions serving the
herders.

The power sector in Mongolia was essentially made up of three markets. The largest
included all grid-connected regions where service reliability was relatively high. It
accounted for about 97 percent of total supply. The second market consisted mainly of
stand-alone diesel generators operated by local administrations in off-grid Soum centers
(SC). Reliability of service varied by location and season due to high operating costs,
frequent interruption in diesel supply, funding constraints, poor cost recovery and high
system losses. These systems accounted for about three percent of the country’s total
electricity supply. The third market covered the widely scattered nomadic herders. It
was highly decentralized and largely undeveloped as most herders had no access due to
limited affordability and substantial logistic difficulties. This market represented only a
trace quantity of electricity usage that amounted to less than one percent of the country’s
total.

The Government of Mongolia (GOM) was keenly aware of its rural population’s
predicament. It was also eager to find a solution that would take advantage of the
country’s rich renewable energy resources (mainly wind and solar) while preserving the
traditional nomadic lifestyle of the herders. With these objectives in mind, a rural
electrification strategy based on a combination of grid and off-grid solutions was
formulated. It consisted primarily of renewable energy technologies (RET) such as the
adoption of solar home systems (SHS) and wind turbine systems (WTS), two mature and
highly portable technologies, for the herders; and the development of renewable or
renewable-diesel hybrid systems (R/RDHS) for the SCs. Key barriers to successful
implementation of this strategy were identified: institutional and regulatory vacuum as
the economy moved to a market-based system; lack of information and experience with
international best practices; shortage of funds; and high risk perception among key
stakeholders such as consumers, government and the private sector.

The Renewable Energy and Rural Electricity Access Project (REAP) was designed to
help remove some of these barriers through an integrated program of technical assistance
(TA) and physical investments. It was consistent with the prevailing FY 2005-2008
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and aligned with the Government’s rural



                                            1
electrification strategy. The Bank was in a unique position to assist GOM as it had been
a major partner in the energy sector with support for the ongoing Energy Sector Project
(Cr 4673-MN, approved in FY2001). Its continued support was considered crucial in
revitalizing the rural electrification effort which was showing obvious signs of stagnation
as donor funding was depleted. The Bank’s involvement not only would bring its
international experience and knowledge to bear but would also help leverage new
commitments from the international donor community (refer to Section 2.1).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The development objective of the project was to increase access to electricity and
improve reliability of electricity service among the herder population and in off-grid SCs.
The key indicators included: (a) increase in the percent of herder population with access
to reliable electricity services provided by SHSs and WTSs; and (b) increase in the
number of people in off-grid SCs with improved reliability of electricity services
supported by R/RDHS.

1.3 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The global environment objective was to remove barriers to the development and use of
RET in grid and off-grid systems and reduce emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2). The
rehabilitation of the Soum mini grids would further reduce fuel consumption of the
hybrid systems, with additional CO2 emissions reduction benefits. The key indicator is
avoided CO2 emissions resulting directly from the project.

1.4 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO and the key indicators were not revised.

1.5 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The GEO and the key indicator were not revised.

1.6 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries of the project are: about 67,000 herder households which acquired
SHSs at subsidized prices (at a discount of about 50 percent); private sector and
government enterprises that distribute, sell and service SHSs across the country; rural
electricity consumers including households, small businesses and public entities such as
schools and clinics in selected Soums; Soum power utilities that had their mini grid
rehabilitated and new RET equipment installed; Aimag (equivalent to province) utilities
that eventually took over the operation of the RETs; and private businesses in rural
Mongolia that marketed associated goods and services such as small electrical supplies
and appliances because of increased electricity access. In addition, the TA and training



                                            2
activities also benefitted public power sector institutions as well as national and local
governments of Mongolia.

1.7 Original Components (as approved)

The project is comprised of three components:

Component A: Herders’ Electricity Access (US$11.6 million) – to develop and enhance a
rural retail and service network for SHSs and small WTSs; and to facilitate the
acquisition of at least 50,000 systems by herders over five years (with an estimated
US$10 million leveraged investment by herders). The objectives would be achieved
through TA in sales and service network development, equipment quality control,
marketing and sales/service support; and smart subsidies to buy down acquisition costs.

Component B: Soum Center Electricity Service (US$10.1 million) – to develop the
institutional and technical capacity of off-grid SC electricity services; and to invest in
mini grid rehabilitation and R/RDHSs. The objectives would be achieved through TA
and physical investments. Specifically, TA in the development of a policy and regulatory
framework for Soum electricity service; establishment of Soum electricity user
associations and SC utilities; technical and feasibility studies for the construction of small
R/RDHSs and rehabilitation of Soum grids; and energy management in various Soum
level public institutions. Investments would include rehabilitation of mini grids in about
30 off-grid SCs; and conversion of existing diesel generation units to R/RDHSs in about
20 of the rehabilitated mini grids.

Component C: Institutional Capacity Building (US$1.3 million) – to strengthen national
renewable energy policy development and to support project management. The
objectives would be achieved through assistance in the development of a regulatory
framework; support for project management, monitoring and evaluation (M&E); and
institutional development of the National Renewable Energy Center (NREC) through
training, business planning and work program development.

1.8 Revised Components

The components were not officially revised but the scopes of some subcomponents was
modified in response to changes in the operating environment brought about by the
ongoing government reform, and in an effort to keep pace with GOM’s initiatives to
speed up rural electrification to meet evolving electricity demand. The modifications
were endorsed by Bank management in two Level II restructurings in August 2009 and
November 2011, as summarized in Section 1.9 below.

1.9 Other significant changes

As discussed under Section 2.2 - Implementation, the Herders’ Access Component
suffered a sluggish start, and the SC Rehabilitation Component was not able to keep pace
with the Government’s expedited implementation of its rural electrification program
(including the rehabilitation of 15 of the 30 grids selected for the project, using its own


                                              3
resources outside of REAP commitments). The purpose of the August 2009 restructuring
was to scale up implementation of Component A by allowing bulk procurement of SHSs
through the reallocation of US$3.2 million from the Government of the Netherlands
(GON) grant financed “smart subsidy? subcomponent; and to provide for more
substantial rehabilitation or replacement of the 15 remaining dilapidated Soum mini grids
under Component B.

The reorganization of GOM in 2009 impacted the implementation arrangements for the
project. The new Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy (MMRE) which replaced
the former Ministry of Fuel and Energy became the main agency responsible for REAP.
The Energy Authority (EA), established to implement the Government’s energy sector
policies and projects, also took over from the National Renewable Energy Center
(NREC). Consequently, supervision of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) became
the responsibility of the EA, while oversight remained with the REAP Steering
Committee under the MMRE. These changes necessitated amendments to the various
grant and financing agreements but in reality had limited impact on the day-to-day
functioning of the PIU as its staff remained largely intact during and after the transition.

The project likely benefitted from additional Government budget allocations for rural
electrification. For instance, in 2007, the adoption of Resolution 50 provided MNT 61.3
billion (about US$51.1 million equivalent) to connect 50 SCs to the central grid, and
MNT 8.7 billion (about US$7.2 million equivalent) to build R/RDHSs to power 10 SCs.
The expedited investment program might have enhanced REAP’s flexibility in that it was
able to focus more on Component A. It also enabled the project to concentrate its
resources on the rehabilitation of fewer mini grids (15 out of 30 planned) and installation
of fewer RETs (15 out of 20 planned) under Component B. The swift adoption of the
Energy Law in 2007 rendered some of the planned TA activities obsolete. All these
changes, while not detrimental to the project’s ultimate success in meeting its PDO and
GEO, did require a flexible approach to implementation. They also, regrettably, created
some quality and sustainability issues associated with Component B. (Refer to Section
2.2 and Annex 2)

The purpose of the November 2011 restructuring was to reallocate savings of about
US$290,000 from Components B and C to modestly scale up the “smart subsidy?
program under Component A; and to extend the closing dates by six months from
December 31, 2011 to June 30, 2012.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of Background Analysis. The project was consistent with the prevailing
CAS’s core objectives of consolidating Mongolia’s transition to a market economy and
reducing vulnerability by enhancing rural development and environmentally sustainable
development. It was aligned with the Government’s Economic Growth and Poverty
Reduction Strategy and Energy Strategy. REAP also complemented several on-going


                                             4
Bank-financed projects including the Energy Project and the Sustainable Livelihoods
Project. The Bank’s involvement was instrumental in securing grant financing which
accounted for over 73 percent of the project’s external funding, specifically US$3.5
million from the Global Environment Facility (GEF) and US$6.0 million from the
Government of the Netherlands (GON).

Assessment of Project Design. The project was implemented with contributions from
four partners - IDA, GEF, GON and GOM whose objectives and components were
dovetailed and became integral parts of REAP. The PDO and GEO were clearly stated,
realistic and important for Mongolia’s rural power sector. The outcome indicators
focused on quantifiable results for which the project could reasonably be held
accountable. That said, the indicators were essentially physical targets which could not
capture the more qualitative outcomes. While the project’s achievements in improving
electricity access were overwhelmingly positive, the PDO/GEO indicators could only tell
a partial story. Moreover, the indicators could risk masking the less successful outcomes
of the non-physical capacity building components (refer to Section 2.2 paragraph on TA
and training) which might ultimately affect the long term success and sustainability of
REAP (refer to Section 4: Risks).

The project approach was selected from several alternatives and took into account the
Bank’s experience in RET and rural electrification. The design also reflected lessons
learned, most particularly in terms of promoting sustainability, need for a sound
regulatory framework, community participation, private sector development, affordable
solutions, and linkage with other ongoing initiatives.

Adequacy of GOM’s Commitment. Preparation of the project involved extensive
consultation with various concerned government agencies and received strong
government commitment. This included a high-level project coordinator from the
Ministry of Fuel and Energy and a significant co-financing of US$10 million representing
about 43.5 percent of total project cost. An inter-agency/ministry steering committee and
an adequately staffed Project Implementation Unit (PIU) were also established before
project launch.

Assessment of Risk at Appraisal. Specific critical risks were identified, of which those
involving retail market development and local absorptive capacity were rated substantial,
and limited experience with the particular size-class of the hybrid systems targeted was
rated moderate. Mitigation measures such as advance agreement with GOM on a policy
framework; encouraging private sector participation; tapping into existing rural networks;
close linkage and collaboration with other ongoing sector programs and project teams;
and TA and feasibility studies tailored to address technical weaknesses were integrated
into the project design and monitoring plans. In retrospect, it appeared the risk
assessment was inadequate in that the appraisal team had still over-estimated the potential
capacity and interest of the private sector, most notably in its ability to self finance SHSs
in large quantities; reaching remote regions of the vast country; and assuming the role of
Soum utilities operators.




                                             5
2.2 Implementation

The project was implemented successfully in that it, along with parallel and related
Government initiatives, had achieved, and in many instances surpassed, its original
outcome indicator targets, most significantly in the area of herder access as summarized
in Annex 2. These important achievements notwithstanding, project implementation did
experience a number of obstacles which required significant modifications to the
approach or plan as envisioned at appraisal. The main issues and resulting adaptations
are summarized below.

Inclusion of Bulk Procurement of SHSs. The project was designed to pilot the
establishment a network of private dealers that would self finance the purchases of SHSs
and then sell them to herders either on their own or through the Sales and Service Center
(SSC) network that was also to be established under REAP (through a process of
selection, training and certification). Due to the limited financing capacity of the private
dealers to buy in bulk, and their inability to establish an extensive sales network to reach
the geographically scattered herders, implementation of the herders’ access component
suffered a very sluggish start (only about 200 SHS units were sold by the middle of 2009,
two years after the IDA/GEF grants became effective).

Given the success of the Government’s parallel program whereby SHSs were pre-
financed and purchased in bulk, and then promptly distributed through the far reaching
government channel of Soum administrations, a decision was taken to modify the SHS
component to emulate the government model. Consequently, the project was restructured
in August 2009 whereby US$3.2 million (or eighty percent) of the GON grant which was
budgeted to provide smart subsidies (of about 50 percent per unit) at the retail end was
reallocated to co-finance the bulk procurements of SHSs. The 20,000 systems, procured
in three batches to allow revolving use of recovered funds at about $160 per unit, were in
turn sold to herders at the same subsidized prices through both government and private
channels. The approach (80 percent bulk purchase and 20 percent private retail) proved
highly effective in speeding up the progress of herder electrification, as indicated in
Annex 2 Component A4b, and the steep upward curve of the IDA disbursement profile.

More Extensive Rehabilitation of Soum Grids. The original design was to rehabilitate the
main feeder of 30 selected SC mini grids with the understanding that further investment
would be required in five to ten years. In 2007, with funding from the Resolution 50
initiative, the Government promptly rehabilitated and connected 15 of the 30 selected
mini-grids to the main grid. Thereafter the government requested, and the Bank agreed,
that the remaining 15 dilapidated grids be more substantially rehabilitated or replaced
under REAP in order to avoid the need for further rehabilitation in the medium term. It
should be noted that while the project scope (and costs) only accounted for rehabilitation
of 15 distribution systems, total coverage remained 30 Soums.

Higher Capacity Soum Center RETs. The original design was to provide RETs to 20
grids selected out of the 30 rehabilitated grids. As five of the 20 selected grids were
already connected, the project was left with 15 SCs. The GOM solely funded 11 systems
early on. The resulting reduction in number allowed the Bank/GEF/GON funds to


                                             6
finance the construction of larger capacity RET systems in the four remaining Soums (in
two Aimags) in response to faster than envisioned economic and demand growth, and the
Soums’ desire to increase reliable supply and decrease diesel dependency. The 150-200
kW photovoltaic systems installed (vs. 50-100 kW systems envisioned at appraisal) were
designed to cover 80-90 percent of the projected demand during the first 5 years after
installation, i.e. a very significant degree of penetration.

Government financed RETs. The 11 systems financed by GOM were acquired and
installed following its own procurement and contracting practices. This resulted in many
sub-standard quality wind-turbine systems being installed that either needed major repairs,
or partial or total replacements. In some cases they involved legal actions against the
contractor where damages were awarded to finance the replacements. To cover funding
shortfalls, about $0.9 million of IDA funds was also used for some replacements of RET
components. However, the PIU learned from this experience and from the more rigorous
quality requirements for the four Bank funded systems and after the replacements all
fifteen systems were in an operational condition.

Modification of TA and Training Activities. The project had a strong focus on institution
building, and many of the activities were training and TA based. While significant
progress was made, many activities designed at appraisal were modified, delayed or not
carried out. To some extent, rapid changes in the operating environment made the
adaptation necessary in order for REAP to stay relevant throughout the implementation
period. For example, the adoption of a Renewable Energy Law in January, 2007 largely
eliminated the anticipated need for REAP to support the development of a regulatory
framework and associated legislation for grid-connected RET systems. With regards to
the development of a policy and regulatory framework for off-grid SC electricity service
operation, the situation also underwent substantial changes in that either the newly
rehabilitated systems were connected to the main grid or the newly installed RET systems
were destined to be handed over to the nearest centralized Energy Supply Companies at
the Aimag level. The transfers, all concluded by the time of this ICR, were mainly due to
the limited operation capacity at the Soum level and the lack of private sector interest in
assuming operation of a RET. The decision was accepted by the Bank and related TA
activities were in part modified to support the operation of Aimag utilities. After the SHS
component was restructured, support for the development of a legal and institutional
framework for bulk procurement was also appropriately added.

Completion of the SHS battery management program was delayed as it was determined
that recycling and disposal of old batteries were only needed after the SHSs had been in
use for at least five years. While this was reasonable within the context of the project, it
did not take into consideration the need for battery disposal/recycling for the 33,000 or so
SHSs distributed during the initial phase of GOM’s National 100,000 Solar Ger
Electrification Program (National Program) prior to REAP. Those SHSs were older (the
first installed 8 years ago) and with moderated battery life. The increasingly pressing
issue of used battery management was an area where REAP could have been more
helpful.




                                             7
Implementation of the SC utility policy and regulation subcomponent was also delayed.
The grid connection and transfer of the rehabilitated grids and RETs out of the Soum
utilities changed the scope and complexity of this task. Three areas of support were
identified: improvement of tariff policy to ensure utility sustainability and consumer
affordability; development of regulatory tools and incentives to improve utility
performance and efficiency; and sorting out the roles of the various stakeholders under
the new operating scenario. Under the tariff study, key issues such as the need for a
rational tariff structure across Soums and a targeted subsidy policy had been identified.
Similarly, other remaining areas of concern were still being actively addressed with TA
and training at closing. As these initiatives were introduced near the end of project
implementation, results were not available for assessment at the time of this ICR.

Extension of Closing Date. The government was keen to complete the National Program,
which was well underway and very close to conclusion at the end of 2011. The second
restructuring in November 2011 effected reallocation of some IDA savings to provide
additional subsidies for about 1,200 SHSs; and an extension of the Grant closing date by
six months to June 30, 2012. As expected, the incremental funding and implementation
time enabled the GOM to bring the National Program to a very successful conclusion
during 2012. That said, when meeting the goal of the National Program by closing
became a top priority, some TA activities proposed at a very late stage were sacrificed.
This was the result of a conscious decision made to allow the PIU to focus its resources
on monitoring the progress of the SHS sub-component. In retrospect, the project’s
institution building components might have benefitted from an extension of more than six
months which would have enabled the PIU to turn its attention to other matters after the
rush to meet the physical targets of the National Program was over.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design. The M&E framework was designed to focus on progress towards meeting
the PDO and GEO as measured by the outcome and intermediate results indicators;
assessment of the impact of rural electrification through beneficiary survey data and
analysis; and evaluation of the delivery mechanism of the herders’ access component. A
mid-term review was also planned to take stock of progress and evolving needs 18-24
months after project launch. One shortcoming of the M&E framework was that there
were many outcome and results indicators (at least one per sub-component, for a total of
15). Some of the intermediate results indicators could have been able to shed some light
on the progress of the capacity building components but it appeared few of them were
regularly tracked and reported, particularly during the initial years when project progress
was slow. Achievement of the GEO was estimated and evaluated only at project
completion after the various systems had been installed and become operational. In the
absence of a feedback loop, it could be argued that their potential benefit to the REAP
was limited.

M&E Implementation. The PIU prepared regular annual and quarterly reports on
implementation progress. Training for them to effectively conduct the M&E work was
provided before project launch.



                                            8
M&E Utilization. The M&E framework was useful in monitoring implementation
progress, signaling issues and prompting the client and the Bank to make adjustments to
enhance REAP’s ability to realize its objectives. During the initial years, it helped to
highlight the slow progress of the smart subsidy program, particularly in contrast to the
Government program’s swift implementation, and brought about modification of the
approach which resulted in the first restructuring. Preparation for the restructuring in
2009 served as the Mid-term Review. After implementation of the sub-component
gained momentum, achievement of the PDO and intermediate outcome indicators were
regularly monitored and evaluated against the baseline and target values. The same M&E
indicators also served to track progress of GOM’s National Program which by then was
fully overlapping with the project. With the second restructuring, the project was able to
help the Government bring the National Program to a successful conclusion in 2012.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environment: The project was classified as Category “C?. As such, it was not expected
to and did not pose significant environmental impact.

Procurement: Procurement was organized and carried out by the PIU with oversight
from the EA and the Steering Committee under it. Procurement of goods was carried out
on the basis of international competitive bidding, shopping and direct contracting. The
Bank’s oversight included prior and post reviews of procurement and contracting
procedures to ascertain that the Procurement Guidelines were followed and the activities
were in compliance with the legal documents. During this process issues with
documentation and reviews had been identified and subsequently rectified. One notable
wrinkle with Bank/Donor financed procurement was related to the first batch of bulk
purchase of SHSs. The process experienced a delay of about six months due to a
complaint that escalated through the Mongolian legal system all the way to the Supreme
Court. The case was ultimately dismissed and the contract award eventually became
effective in July 2010. The procurement of the RET systems with GOM’s own resources
encountered a number of serious problems which took the PIU substantial time and
resources to address. They were eventually resolved and all systems had since been
operating (Sections 1.9 and 5.2a).

Financial Management: The PIU maintained dedicated accounts for the project and
prepared financial statements on a regular basis. Annual audit reports were submitted to
the Bank on time and no significant issues had been identified. Financial management
supervision and sample reviews identified shortcomings, mostly in the area of
documentation deficiencies. These findings were followed up and the problems were
resolved. It was concluded that the project’s financial management system was adequate
and proceeds of the grants were used for their intended purposes.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The project adopted existing international standards and used them to establish the
technical specifications for the SHSs and RETs. The SHSs were inspected and certified
to meet stringent quality standards to minimize potential for breakdowns and reputational


                                            9
risks in a novel market. The establishment and functioning of the SSC network and the
introduction of the manufacturers’ warranty practice will enhance their sustainability. At
completion, most of the SHSs sold had already been in operation and the main
parameters for their continued functioning were not expected to change in the foreseeable
future. Efforts to ensure proper battery disposal was ongoing at the time of the ICR and a
winning solution was expected shortly. The SHSs distributed under the project are
expected to continue to operate smoothly. However, it has to be recognized that the
itinerant nature of herder families presents significant challenges to the service
infrastructure (the SSCs) and the GOM will need to continuously monitor the availability
and quality of after-sales service/repairs.

The rehabilitated mini grids and new RETs were either connected to the main grid or
handed over to the Aimag utilities as they were judged to be in a better position to meet
the technical, budgetary, and staffing requirements to operate and maintain the new
systems.. The staff of utilities in charge of the new systems received the necessary
training to operate and maintain the facilities. However, the changed scenario has posed
new challenges such as rigid tariffs, affordability issues and the lack of ownership. While
they would not negatively impact the day-to-day operation of the RETs in the near term,
they could potentially hurt long term sustainability of the project (refer to Section 4:
Risks). The Aimag utilities may therefore need further assistance for management of SC
systems to ensure sustainability

The successful completion of the GOM’s National Program was recognized as an
important achievement and major development milestone for Mongolia. It provided a
solid foundation for the government and its partners to turn their attention to the GOM’s
next target, namely, universal rural electrification by 2020 under the National Renewable
Energy Program.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: Satisfactory

The project’s PDO was consistent with two of the three strategic objectives of the
FY2005-2008 CAS. It was also designed to contribute to three of the five pillars of the
Government’s Economic Growth Support and Poverty Reduction Strategy of August
2003, around which the CAS was built. Specifically, they were to ensure public sector
effectiveness; improve the environment for private sector led development; and enhance
rural development and environmentally sustainable development. The GEO was also
closely aligned with three of GEF’s Strategic Priorities for the Climate Change Focal
Area.

While the prevailing CAS remained relevant for REAP throughout the implementation
period, its own success was rapidly affected by external events. In particular, it had not



                                            10
foreseen the speed at which the mining boom would occur, the sudden economic growth
that ensued, and the range of new development challenges they brought about. The
Bank’s strategic focus, understandably, had shifted. Nonetheless, the project is still well
aligned with one of the three pillars, namely, to address vulnerability through improved
access to services and better service delivery, safety net provision, and improved disaster
risk management.

The project adopted a combination of physical components, beneficiary subsidies, and
TA that proved effective for it to meet its objectives. The design included innovative
features such as the adoption of high international standards for SHSs and RETs; and
introduced best practices such as after-sale service and warranties which were legitimate
concerns of potential buyers. The project also enabled the establishment of a network of
trained and certified SSCs, which were able to buy (in small quantities), distribute, sell
and service SHSs and meet the scattered herder population’s electrification needs. At
appraisal it was envisioned that in time the private dealers would be able to scale up and
purchase in bulk; and private operators would be willing and able to take on management
of the retrofitted Soum center utilities. Despite all the mitigating measures, development
and reliance on the private sector eventually proved to be insurmountable hurdles.
Overcoming then required significant modifications to the project approach and
implementation plans. It was helpful that the design was flexible enough to
accommodate such modifications without a major restructuring. The experience also
contributed to some of the lessons learned.

Another innovative feature was the introduction of partial cost recovery for SHSs to
leverage additional funds to scale up implementation and enhance ownership. Prior to
REAP, SHSs were often provided to herders virtually free of charge under the National
Program with funds from bilateral donors. In the cases where small costs were recovered,
the funds were absorbed in the GOM budget. Under REAP the herders’ cost sharing was
about 50 percent, and the recovered funds were channeled back to the project to cover the
cost of additional SHSs. This contributed to the project’s ability to exceed its herder
access targets. A significant copayment by herders quite likely enhanced their sense of
ownership.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives and Global Environment Objectives

Rating: Satisfactory

Achievement of the PDO and GEO were measured against two and one outcome
indicators, respectively. At completion, all target value set at appraisal had been
surpassed by a significant margin, suggesting that the PDO and GEO had both been
achieved in a satisfactory manner as detailed below.

PDO: to increase access to electricity and improve reliability of electricity service among
the herder population and in off-grid SCs. In terms of reliable SHSs delivered, the target
was to improve coverage to 50 percent of the herder population. At project completion,
over 67,000 SHS units had been distributed to herders in 331 Soums. Along with the
33,000 or so units already supplied by GOM prior to the project, a total of over 100,000


                                            11
units had been provided to herders in 342 Soums. This represented coverage of about
62.5 percent and 34 percent more units sold as compared to the appraisal estimate. The
project achievements can be further underlined by looking at the area of indoor lighting
in gers: not only has the service been greatly expanded (by a factor of 144 when
measured as lumen hours) but the unit costs (US$ per thousand lumen hours) have been
reduced by a factor of 94 from a 7.5 to 0.08 when comparing with candles – the most
common baseline. Reliability has improved because herders are no longer dependent on
buying candles or kerosene in times where money are tight or access to shops restrained.

In terms of number of people served with improved services in off-grid SCs, the target
was 16,000 persons. The project, along with the Government’s parallel programs,
yielded 30 Soums with more reliable and improved service either through grid
rehabilitation and main grid connection; or grid rehabilitation and installation of RET
systems. At project completion, the total number of beneficiaries in this category was
over 18,000 persons. This represented a 15 percent increase over the appraisal estimates.
The many new electricity consumers are reaping significant benefits from the new energy
source including many productive end-uses.

GEO: to remove barriers to the development and use of RET in grid and off-grid systems
and reduce emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2). The target for REAP was to reduce CO2
emissions by 9,000 ton per year. At the time of project completion, total reduction from
all components combined was estimated to be 11,333 ton per year, or 26 percent about
target, for an estimated period of 20 years.

The above impressive achievements notwithstanding, there were shortfalls in the
implementation of some of the technical assistance sub-components such as the yet to be
completed and implemented tariff reform that would affect the residents of the SCs with
improved services. Also, there is limited information on the quality of maintenance of
the RETs that were handed over to the Aimag utilities. There is anecdotal evidence to
suggest that the reliability of the RET systems leaves room for improvement and that
support for the Aimag utilities that operate the Soum center systems needs to be
strengthened. These issues, though not captured in the physical achievement focused
PDO and GEO outcome indicators, would affect the reliability of power supply and
sustainability of REAP. Given these concerns which could present real threats to the
sustained attainment of the PDO and GEO over the long term, the overall achievement is
rated Satisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Satisfactory

Herder Access. At appraisal three alternative household lighting sources were compared.
There was a clear cost effectiveness advantage for using SHS as compared to candles and
kerosene lamps.

At project completion the same comparison was made with updated cost figures. The
results show that unit costs (measured as US$ per thousand lumen hours) have been


                                           12
reduced by a factor of 94 (from 7.5 to 0.08) when comparing with candles – the most
common baseline and by a factor of 9 when comparing with kerosene lamps.

Soum Center Supply. Financial analysis of a wind-diesel hybrid system was carried out
at appraisal since this was then assumed to be the preferred solution. A partial1 and a full
cost recovery scenario required average tariffs of $0.17/kWh and $0.49/kWh respectively.
It was concluded that the effective subsidy of $0.32/kWh provided through the project
would make the supply generally affordable (about 5 percent of poorest household’s
income) and was adequate to sustain the operation and maintenance of the system over its
life, as well as finance its replacement cost. It was also calculated that a solar-diesel
hybrid would require a tariff of $0.80 for full cost recovery leading to an effective
subsidy of around $0.55-0.65/kWh depending on the performance of the solar system.

At project completion the wind-diesel hybrid is regarded as a less relevant option because
of operational problems in the GoM financed projects, which have not allowed for
systematic collection of reliable performance data. All four SC RETs financed by this
project are solar-diesel hybrids so a financial analysis has been prepared for this
technology set. Calculations using assumptions based on real data from the SCs funded
by this project indicate that a 10 percent financial rate of return would require average
tariffs $0.90/kWh for full cost recovery whereas break-even at partial cost recovery will
be achieved at $0.17/kWh. The implicit subsidy is in other words $0.73 or somewhat
higher than assumed at appraisal for this technology. However most of this difference can
be accounted for by inflation.2

For more details please refer to Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome and Global Environment Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The PDO and GEO remained relevant to Mongolia despite a rapidly transforming rural
electrification sector within an even more dramatically changed macro-economic context.
In a dynamic operating environment REAP was able to complement, respond, and
support the Government’s efforts and the resulting achievements in rural electricity
access and GHG emission reduction were quite remarkable. The project also supported
institutional development and introduced new approaches and standards that facilitated
the development of the private sector and local utilities. Despite limited success with the
private sector pilots and despite the fact that bringing utility management up to par was
still a work-in-progress, the access targets have been met and people’s lives have been


1
  Partial cost recovery assumes that the investment is grant funded and therefore that no capital costs need to be
recovered over the tariff. This is emulating the real situation.

2
  Between 2006 and 2012, Mongolia had inflation rates of 30% in 2008-2009 (crisis years) and it has been at around
15% annually since 2010




                                                           13
greatly improved. Precious lessons have been learned that will facilitate future
intervention to further deepen the coverage (i.e. making more capacity available to the
new consumers) and improve the quality of the electricity access. At closing, the
development results were expected to be sustained provided remaining work would in
fact be carried out to their successful conclusion. Given the impressive results in
improving access, and the risks to sustainability, on balance, overall outcome is rated
satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

At completion, the project enabled an estimated half million people within the herder
population to gain access to electricity. Of this total, about 51 percent were women and
37 percent children. The improved services at the SCs not only benefitted year-round
residents but also the women and children from herder households as many of them
stayed around the SCs during the several harsh winter months (low temperature often
below -30C between November and March). The increased use of electrical household
appliances such as electric hot pots, ovens and washing machines provided relief to
women in particularly since traditionally it was their role to cook and wash for the family
(refer to Section 3.6 for more examples).

With almost two thirds of the herders having access to electricity, the project has likely
boosted demand for consumer electronics, televisions, satellite dishes, radios, cell phones
and other electrical appliances and equipment. Their usage not only improved the
herders’ quality of life but their having timely access to weather and market information
has the power to reduce their vulnerability to natural hazards, facilitate livestock
management and give them an edge in marketing their goods. With the country
experiencing an economic boom, herder electrification could help ensure that this
community, with strongest connection to the country’s rich history and culture, would be
able to maintain its traditional way of life without being left far behind. To the private
dealers and SSCs, the apparent fast growing demands also represented potentials for fresh
business opportunities and a commercial market that never existed before.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Assisting the institutional development of NREC, the agency responsible for the national
renewable energy agenda, was an important project component. While the role of the
Commission changed over time, and in 2009 it was reestablished as a self-financing state
owned enterprise responsible for advancing the market for renewable energy, the
appraisal goal to establish a clear organizational and business plan for NREC was still
relevant. At the time of project completion, NREC had a clear business plan and
structure and was operating on a commercial basis.

The establishment of 50 certified SSCs across the country was a far reaching institutional
development under REAP as the network was instrumental in disseminating SHS product
information and widening awareness, thus helped the herders make informed choices


                                            14
with confidence. The after-sale services they provide, within reasonable travel distances
from a highly dispersed rural population, also make the SHSs more desirable and
affordable. Successful implementation of GOM’s National Program and REAP helped
nurture a new market mechanism where trained, certified, and private sector operated
SSCs and dealers can play an increasingly important role in furthering herder access.
The private sector may also benefit from increased business opportunities.

A range of capacity building activities was also conducted to provide support to
government officials in different agencies, the SSCs and private dealers, and the PIU.
They included technical and management workshops; study tours; and training programs
that benefited over 840 participants (refer to Annex 2 for more details).

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

An example of a potential unintended outcome was in the management of used batteries.
The REAP sponsored feasibility study demonstrated that a recycling plant would be
highly profitable. The business opportunities have already attracted the attention of the
private sector. The proposed SHS battery recycling facilities, if implemented, were
expected to produce additional positive environmental benefits as it would include the
disposal and recycling of other batteries such as those for automobiles, PV systems for
hospitals, and telecommunication units.

With funding support from ASTAE, the Bank was able to disseminate information about
the results of the project and lessons learned. Branded as “Capturing the Sun in the Land
of the Blue Sky – Providing Portable Solar Power to Nomadic Herders in Mongolia? it
included an information poster, a documentary video (available on the internet), a paper,
a web article and a PowerPoint presentation.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Results from a beneficiary survey is presented in Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results.
The survey is comprised of two parts:

Part A:
A sampling survey among herders in two selected Aimags (out of a total of 21). The
survey covered a random selection of around 50% of all the herders that had purchased
SHS through the project in the two Aimags – a total of 789 families were interviewed.
The result is a quantitative assessment of user satisfaction and social impacts. The survey
showed high levels of customer satisfaction among herders: 41.7% were “extremely
satisfied? and 51.7% “very satisfied?. 70.5% of the herders cited “increased productivity
for work? as the key benefit linked with the installation of SHS. Moreover, the survey
showed that the vast majority of herders are either likely (52%) or very likely (43.9%) to
use SHS in the future and would recommend SHS to others (99.6%).

In addition to improving the herders’ productivity, the installation of SHS systems had a
positive impact on communication and information access. After the project, more than
90% of the survey population use mobile phones for their communication needs


                                            15
compared to a pre-project level of near zero. The interviewed herders indicated the SHS
system made it easier for them to access information on livestock prices, food and
weather conditions thereby enhancing their productivity. While, prior to the installation
of SHS systems, herders largely relied on the radio and going in person to the Soum
centers for their information-related needs, a new reality sees the TV as the most popular
and widely-used source of information.3

In general, more than 90% of the interviewed herders state that the SHS have improved
the quality of their lives. According to the vast majority of the people interviewed, solar
PV systems are a reliable source of electricity that can generate enough output to power
the existing appliances in a given household. Finally, herders value electricity as
important for their children’s education.

Part B:
A rapid appraisal was conducted in three SCs to supplement Part A. Individual heads of
households, public administrators, representatives of the Aimag power utility companies,
business owners, and public service providers such as educators and medical workers
were interviewed. The rapid appraisal showed that all three sites had experienced
transformative changes in the past two to three years. While not all of these changes
were attributable to REAP, the increased supply of electricity (from an average of four to
five hours per day to between 11 to 18 hours a day) had been a critical enabling factor.

At the household level, it was observed that spending on electricity had likely decreased
on a per kWh basis and it was also likely that the cost effectiveness of lighting has
improved. In the three SCs, most households have refrigerators or freezers, allowing
them to keep fresh meat for longer in the warm months and to prepare frozen meat to
keep through much of the winter and spring. There is evidence that cooking habits have
changed due to the use of electrical appliances, and some have reportedly added more
variety to their diets. The added flexibility of using electricity has benefited working
women in terms of time savings especially since they continue to do most of the cooking
and washing. Having additional hours of supply has enabled the regular use of mobile
phones. The increased supply of electricity has freed up time for other activities:
residents tend to stay up later and watch television for more hours per day. Subscription
satellite TV offerings have also improved significantly. Some residents have capitalized
on the additional time to engage in productive activities, such as the teachers using
computers to prepare for lessons, baking and selling bread and cakes.

At the community level, daytime supply of electricity has been instrumental to improving
the provision of medical care. Some clinics have acquired new medical equipment


3
  Note that the World Bank also implemented three other projects in rural areas that indirectly benefited from REAP:
the Information and Communications Infrastructure Development Project (P092965) aimed at increasing the coverage
of ICT services to rural areas by incentivizing private operators; the Sustainable Livelihoods Program 2 (P096439)
objective is to enhance livelihood security and sustainability by financing community initiatives and pastoral risk
management activities; and the Rural Education and Development project (P096328) aimed to enhance the quality of
education by distributing learning materials (including laptops) and training students and teachers in rural areas.




                                                         16
because they no longer have to rely on small diesel generators for power supply.
According to the nurses interviewed improved lighting has made it easier to give
injections and perform other procedures. Better conditions are also observed in the
schools which enroll children of the local population as well as those from herder
families and the surrounding baghs. The children no longer use candles for lighting,
eliminating a potential fire hazard, and the dorms have all been fitted with compact
fluorescent lamps, improving the quality of light. Almost all of the children own mobile
phones. Because they are able to use washing machines, hygiene has improved. There is
also evidence that the quality and variety of instruction in the classroom has improved.
The teachers own laptops that they may use for lesson planning, and the schools have
outfitted computer labs to offer courses. In each of the Soums, new entrepreneurs were
found, and existing businesses may have expanded their stock of goods for sale.

Positive changes in household and community life have been undercut by recent power
disruptions that have occurred at each of the project sites. Apart from inconveniencing
households, causing economic losses to businesses, and limiting the ability of
institutional users to provide public services, power disruptions have also hurt the
confidence of consumers in the reliability of RETs. Several lessons can be distilled from
the problems encountered: consumer demand for electricity in the soums increased much
more quickly than initially expected and investments in expanding the capacity of the
systems may be needed to ensure a continued high level of performance and service
delivery. Also, while the Aimag power utility companies remain the best option for
managing the off-grid RET systems, they need additional financial and technical support
to ensure that they have the capacity to effectively manage the systems, and the flexibility
to adjust tariffs to cover costs.

On the consumer side, the ability of soum residents to hold the utility companies
accountable has been weakened by the inactivity of the users’ associations created under
REAP. Without this formal mechanism for consumer representatives to engage directly
with the utility companies, communication between provider and users has been poor;
consumers do not understand why power disruptions have occurred, and they are
concerned that restrictions will continue into the future. Reconstituting the associations
and bridging the communication gap is needed to strengthen the management of the
systems and improve the responsiveness of the utility companies.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome and Global Environment
Outcome

Rating: Moderate

Few risks are anticipated with regards to the physical sustainability of the SHSs and RET
systems given the relatively simple technologies employed. Critical to the Herders’
Access component is the availability of convenient and affordable after sale services by
the SSC network. Critical to the SC Electricity Service component’s long term
sustainability are utility management, tariffs, and proper functioning of the Soum user
associations. Issues such as operating at below capacity due to poor spare parts


                                            17
management and the lack of qualified repair crew had been observed and were being
addressed at the time of the ICR. The transfer of the RET systems to the Aimags
continues to highlight the need to formulate and adopt a rational tariff policy and an
appropriate tariff structure that would be affordable and equitable to the SC consumers
while providing incentives for the utilities to operate efficiently and with minimal service
interruptions and restrictions. The lack of ownership at both the Aimag utilities and SC
consumer levels could potentially put the impact of the project at risk. At the macro level,
economic development and government commitment to extend rural electrification
remain strong, and consumer demand for more reliable and less diesel dependent supply
is expected to continue to grow. In view of the positive macro environment, the absence
of major threats to the herders’ access component, and the identified risks to the SC
electricity service component being manageable, the overall risk that the development
outcomes would not be sustained was considered moderate at the time of this assessment.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

As summarized in Sections 1.1 and 2.1, the Bank’s support for the project was well
aligned with the prevailing CAS and GOM’s energy strategy, and complemented several
ongoing operations. Their objectives and components of the four partners (IDA, GEF,
GON and GOM) were dovetailed and well integrated into the design of the project.
During preparation, the Bank team assisted GOM in designing the project to meet the
Bank’s technical, financial, economic, fiduciary, social and environment standards. It
also helped shape the TA and training programs to strengthen the institutional capacity of
the relevant government and power sector authorities, the PIU, and other stakeholder
organizations. The resulting design was clear and straight forward except for the capacity
building elements which involved many organizations in a rapidly changing operating
environment.

The PDO and GEO were clearly stated, realistic and important for Mongolia’s rural
power sector, though the outcome indicators, with emphasis on physical outcomes, could
only tell a partial story of actual achievements and shortcomings. The project introduced
innovations such as international standards and good practices, private sector
involvement in the distribution, sales and service of SHSs, establishment of a SSC
network and SC user associations. The appraisal coverage was comprehensive as
reflected in the skill mix of the preparation/appraisal teams and PAD. Implementation
arrangements and M&E were discussed and agreed in advance. The overall risk of
REAP was rightly rated as substantial. The Bank might have been overly optimistic
regarding the capacity of the private sector but the built-in back-up arrangement which
allowed the flexibility to include bulk procurement of SHS possibly spared the project a
major restructuring. Project preparation was relatively fast with Concept review in


                                            18
February 2006 and Board approval in December, 2006. The cost of preparation, at a little
under US$350,000, was acceptable given the complexity of the project. Working
relationships with the Borrower, stakeholders and co-financiers were productive and
supportive. The Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry was satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Supervision of the project was regular and vigorous during the second half of the
implementation period. The rationale for the two restructurings, and the resulting
amendments were clearly spelled out, thoroughly discussed and documented. Field
supervision teams were by and large appropriately staffed to address and report on
implementation issues as they emerge. They covered all aspects of the project including
monitoring of physical progress, TA and training activities and compliance with the
Bank’s fiduciary policies. They also included coordination with donor agency
representatives. For bulk procurements, the Bank’s office in Beijing provided just-in-
time procurement review and support on site. Towards the end of implementation,
physical progress was particularly scrutinized to ensure the Government’s National
Program targets would be met and the problems with the GOM financed RETs would be
resolved. Supervision reports were generally comprehensive, candid and focused on the
PDO indicators.

While supervision of physical progress was comprehensive and well documented
especially after the pace of implementation of the herder’s access component accelerated,
the same did not seem to apply to the supervision of the TA activities even though
activities were frequently tallied. In some instances it was not possible to determine why
certain TA activities were never mentioned, and it was often unclear whether the actions
were intentional or by default. Compared to the appraisal estimates, actual disbursement
on TA activities under the IDA and GEF Grants were about 52 percent and 68 percent
respectively. Part of the savings under the IDA Grant was reallocated, but without the
benefit of any reallocation, about 16 percent of the GEF Grant had to be cancelled at
closing. Closer supervision of the project’s TA activities might have enabled some of the
cancelled grant funds to be better used.

By comparison, the quality of supervision during the initial years of implementation was
more difficult to assess in that the project appeared to have suffered a sluggish start, and
at the same time many key supervision documents for that period were unavailable,
hampering an understanding of earlier challenges. The gap in early supervision
documentation was particularly problematic as task management changed hands around
the time when the first restructuring was proposed, and again shortly after the Grants
were closed but before preparation of the ICR commenced.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory



                                            19
During implementation, the Bank repeatedly showed flexibility and willingness to make
adjustments (and restructure) either based on evidence on the ground, or in response to
the client’s requests. While there were moderate shortcomings in early supervision, they
did not affect the ultimate achievement of the PDO and GEO as measured by the
outcome indictors, nor do they affect the impact of the project in any significant manner.
On balance, overall Bank performance is considered satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

At the central level, the former Ministry of Fuel and Energy and NREC both supported
the design, PDO and GEO of the project. They also showed strong commitment to rural
electrification through the use of RETs, as evidenced by the high Government
contribution to the project (about 43.5 percent of total financing). The commitment
remained strong after the 2009 government reorganization. GOM’s focus on the National
Program was a key factor that brought to the Herders’ Access component to a very
successful conclusion.

In terms of day-to-day implementation, the government’s lengthy procedures and review
process caused some delays in the internal clearance of the ICB documents, bid
evaluation and contract signing. These were later rectified. The Government’s own
procurement and contracting practices for the intended fast track purchase and
installation of eleven RETs (with state budget) highlighted a number of shortcomings:
lack of competition, inadequate safeguards, unclear technical specifications, and no pre-
shipment inspections. That said, credit should be given to MMRE for taking
considerable actions to address these problems, including using REAP for remedial
measures. As a result, all SCs were able to benefit from its new RET system at the time
of ICR.

While the procurement issues were not insignificant, given the government’s relentless
corrective actions, and its overwhelming commitment and support to the project which
were critical to its success, overall performance of GOM is considered satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The PIU was committed to achieving the PDO and GEO. Focus on capacity building was
apparent as staff often participated in training activities to enhance their skills in carrying
out their management and procurement functions. Several shortcomings were noted
during early project implementation, e.g. it had been pointed out that the procurement
files were not always complete and some shopping quotes were not documented, also
sometimes introduction of changes to the procurement methods were not accompanied by
corresponding amendments to the plans. However, the PIU’s performance improved over


                                              20
time after training, TA and technical support from the Bank in standardizing the
processes and documentation. Similar issues in financial documentation were also
identified and rectified during the implementation period.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

As indicated above, ratings for both dimensions are satisfactory. Hence the rating for overall
Borrower Performance is satisfactory.


6. Lessons Learned

Transfer of international experience with appropriate adaptations. Carefully selected
international experiences are generally transferable, but to be effective they have to be
customized to suit local conditions. The pilot for private dealer led sales of SHSs
demonstrated that in a sparsely populated area, an emergent private sector with limited
resources would not be able to make much headway. After two years of very limited
sales by private dealers (about 200 units out of a project total of 50,000), the approach
was modified. The resulting public/private partnership for the bulk purchase, distribution
and sales of SHSs using existing GOM institutional infrastructure; and the private SSCs
and dealers for the retail sale and provision of after-sales service proved effective to scale
up implementation and ensure long term sustainability of the project’s positive impact.
This also nurtured the development of the SSCs and private dealers by allowing them to
maintain a foothold in the market while giving them time and space to find their niche.

Flexibility to change based on evidence on the ground. The project was designed to pilot
private sector involvement in two areas: dealers for SHSs and operators for Soum utilities.
As in the private dealer pilot, the private sector showed little interest in operating the
utilities as their ability to take on such tasks was also severely limited by their financial
and technical capacities. The implementation experience confirmed that flexibility is
paramount when evidence on the ground demonstrated that conditions were not ripe for a
pilot to continue or to scale up. The project was restructured twice to meet prevailing
needs (refer to Sections 1.8, 1.9, 2.2 and Annex 2). Changing course without losing sight
of the project’s objectives helps manage risks (both real and reputational) and remove
impediments to implementation.

Balance between cost recovery and affordability. The government model in place before
REAP was able to distribute SHSs to the herders quickly while bilateral resources were
available. However, the Program became stagnant and unsustainable when external
funding dried up and the little costs recovered were reabsorbed into the government’s
budget. There were also issues of ownership (many units were given away virtually free)
and lack of after-sale service (many herders could not afford a trip to the capital city to
have the units repaired). The approach introduced under REAP illustrated that while
affordability of the herder population was limited there was still a strong willingness to
pay for good quality and reliable products and services if the consumers were well


                                             21
informed and after-sale service was accessible to a dispersed population. With a
combination of partial cost recovery and smart subsidies (about 50/50) and a dedicated
account to recycle the payments from the herders back to the program, REAP was able to
leverage the funds to double the coverage. With increased ownership, the units sold also
stood a better chance to reach their designed life of twenty years.

Focus needed on institutional aspects of Soum center electrification. The rapid
assessment with visits to three SCs showed a clear pattern of institutional deficiencies in
the way the Aimag utilities are operating these satellite systems. With a low tariff and
high diesel subsidies still in place there is little incentive for the Aimag utility to maintain
and repair the SC systems resulting in reduced availability of the RET systems, which
threatens the long-term sustainability. There should have been more focus on this issue
during supervision and the planned tariff studies to determine affordability and suggest
sustainable tariffs for the SCs should have been implemented. Furthermore, the
performance of the institutional setup should have been monitored and possible
improvements, including early involvement of NREC to assist Soum system operators,
suggested prior to the closing of the Grants.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Following are highlights of salient points made, issues raised and lessons drawn by GOM
and the PIU. Their joint ICR is included in Annex 7.

Project Outcomes. With the Herders’ Electricity Access component, GOM was able to
meet the goal of the 100,000 Solar Ger Program. This meant more than half of the herder
households have gained access, and they are made aware of how electricity can improve
their quality of live. This experience will promote the growth of the household
renewable energy market. Despite lingering technical problems with the RET systems
build under the Soum Center Electricity Service component, household appliance
ownership has increased considerably, some residents have been able to start new
businesses, conditions in schools and clinics have also improved. The Institutional
Capacity Building component helped the national energy agencies make and implement
renewable energy policies. The Bank funded systems also provided national experts with
best-practice examples. While operators of the renewable energy systems and the staff in
the Aimag utilities received some training, more effort would be needed to ensure proper
functioning of the systems.

Project Design. In hindsight, certain aspects of the design advocated by the Bank team
were not entirely realistic. The Bank argued strenuously that the SHS units should be
supplied primarily by private companies. As experience would show, the network of
SSCs and private retailers did not form quickly enough. By 2009, the private sector had
only sold about 300 SHS units, whereas 40,400 SHS units were bulk-procured, sold, and
installed through the Government network of local administrators in 2007 and 2008. This



                                              22
led GOM to express its concerns to the Bank. The resulting restructuring helped speed
up progress and REAP was able to achieve its targets.

Coordination and Timeliness of Response. Implementation of REAP during the first
years was not able to keep pace with the GOM’s expedited action plans for rural
electrification, due in part to policy changes introduced after the start of the project.
Coordination between GOM and REAP was relatively weak in the beginning;
implementation of the Soum Center RET component did not even commence until after
the restructuring. The situation was much improved over time. While the Bank generally
responded to requests in a timely and effective manner, “no-objections? sometimes took
longer than expected because of the time needed to meet Bank requirements.

Aspects of the project that should have received more focus. Battery recycling – a
feasibility study was carried out; however, measures to ensure proper disposal of used
SHS batteries should have been introduced earlier to avoid causing damages to the
environment. In terms of RET, the Bank could have leveraged its technical expertise and
experience to demonstrate other renewable energy technologies besides solar PV,
particularly when the Government experienced so much difficulty with wind power
systems. While the focus of the project was on off-grid renewable energy, the capacity
building component could have better addressed GOM’s needs in managing larger on-
grid RET systems in the aimags.

Post-project Transition. Building the capacity of NREC and EA was critical in preparing
for the post-project transition period. NREC and the PIU will need to work closely with
the soum centers and aimag utilities to solve technical problems that arise with the off-
grid RET stations. The capacity of the Aimag utilities to maintain the RET systems is
still weak, and Soum center consumer associations are inactive. During the transition
period, NREC will inspect all of the RET systems installed to determine the cause of the
remaining technical problems in the systems that are performing sub-optimally and to
identify needed repairs. Additional measures will be needed to improve the management
of the systems to ensure a reliable level of service.

Lessons Learned. The most important lesson was in the design and use of economic
incentives in the development of the market for household RET. REAP’s subsidy
program created a cost recovery mechanism that was able to leverage the success of the
project. While ger household demand for renewable power solutions has grown, it is
unlikely that sales of SHS units by SSCs and private dealers will continue once the
subsidy program expires. If the private sector chooses to sell units that are cheaper and
lower-quality than the ones distributed under REAP, it may undercut the confidence of
ger household consumers in the reliability of SHSs.

The second lesson is on the development of off-grid RETs. Consumer demand for
electricity and improved services in the project SCs increased much more quickly than
expected, and some have already reached or exceeded capacity. In deploying small-scale
RET solutions in off-grid SCs, adequate allowance should be made for future capacity
expansions.



                                           23
Maintenance of the RET systems should continue to be strengthened to ensure an
optimum level of service. The Aimag utilities have shown little enthusiasm for their
assumed role in system O&M and repair because the off-grid systems are seen as lower
priority and not profitable. Also, the utilities have little experience with managing off-
grid RET systems; and finding spare parts in Mongolia and making repairs is costly.
More meaningful interaction and consultation between the utility companies and soum
consumers is needed. Reconstituting the user associations could provide a channel for
improving communication between supplier and consumers, especially in clarifying how
tariffs are set and providing advanced notice for power restrictions.

A lesson learned from GOM’s experience with the early wind systems was that the
quality of the installed systems may have been improved by strengthening the procedures
and requirements for procurement. This could have been done by including specific
technical requirements in the contracts and establishing a more rigorous selection process.
On the other hand, the high procurement requirements for the larger capacity PV systems
effectively created a hurdle for Mongolian companies to participate. Developing a local
industry for off-grid RET will improve the O&M systems in rural areas; solidify supply
chains for spare parts needed to maintain the systems; and reduce response time.

(b) Cofinanciers

No comments received

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

No comments received




                                           24
        Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

        (a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)4


                             Project Cost by Component - IDA Portion (in USD Thousand equivalent)
                                                                        Formally
                                                                                     Variance                         % of            % of
                                                     Appraisal           Revised                       ICR
               Components                                     1                        from                         Appraisal       Revised
                                                     Estimate           Estimate                    Estimate
                                                                                     Appraisal                      Estimate        Estimate
                                                                        Nov 2011
Component A: Herders' Electricity Access
A1    Sales and Services Network Devel.
A2    Quality Standards and Compliance
A3    Marketing and Sales/Service Support
A4a   Smart Subsidy                                                       291            291           291                           100%
A4b   Bulk Procurement of SHSs
       Subtotal Component A                                               291            291           291                           100%
Component B: Soum Center Electricity Service
B1    SC Utility Policy and Regulation               76       80           80                           80            100%           100%
B2    SC Capacity Building                          152      160           36           (124)           35             22%            98%
B3    Feasibility Studies
B4    Energy Management Assistance                   48       50           50                            8             16%            16%
B5    Rehabilitation of SC Power Grids              818      900          877            (23)          877             97%           100%
B6    Renewable or Hybrid Systems                  1,909    2,100        1,997          (103)         1,953            93%            98%
       Subtotal Component B                  3,003          3,290        3,040          (250)         2,953            90%            97%
Component C: Institutional Capacity Building
      NREC Institutional Development                 95      100          100                          100            100%           100%
C1
      Project Management, M&E                                              50            50             47                            94%
C2    National Policy and Regulation                105      110           19            (91)           36             33%           188%
             Subtotal Component C                   200      210          169            (41)          183             87%           108%
Total Base Cost                                    3,203
      Physical Contingencies                        136
       Price Contingencies                          160
Total Project Cost                                 3,500    3,500        3,500            0           3,427            98%            98%




        4
          Project costs estimated at appraisal: the first column is base cost (slightly different from PAD due to PAD calculation
        errors), second column includes physical and price contingencies. The "Percentage of Appraisal" compares value of
        ICR estimates with the second column of the appraisal estimate. Furthermore 5 percent physical and price
        contingencies are applied to all investment costs except the smart subsidies



                                                                   25
             Project Cost by Component - GEF Portion (in USD Thousand equivalent)

                                                 Appraisal         ICR      % of Appraisal
                  Components                              1
                                                 Estimate       Estimate      Estimate

Component A: Herders' Electricity Access
A1     Sales and Services Network Devel.        95      100       100           100%
A2     Quality Standards and Compliance         190     200       94                47%
A3     Marketing and Sales/Service Support      571     600       566               94%
A4a    Smart Subsidy
A4b    Bulk Procurement of SHSs
          Subtotal Component A                  857     900       760               84%
Component B: Soum Center Electricity Service
 B1    SC Utility Policy and Regulation
 B2    SC Capacity Building                    190      200       198               99%
 B3    Feasibility Studies                     381      400       112               28%
 B4    Energy Management Assistance
 B5    Rehabilitation of SC Power Grids
 B6    Renewable or Hybrid Systems             1,273   1,400     1,400          100%
       Subtotal Component B                  1,844     2,000     1,710              86%
Component C: Institutional Capacity Building
       NREC Institutional Development
 C1
       Project Management, M&E                  390      410       409              100%
 C2    National Policy and Regulation           181      190        76              40%
              Subtotal Component C              571      600       485              81%
Total Base Cost                                3,273
       Physical Contingencies                   64
       Price Contingencies                      164
Total Project Cost                             3,500    3,500     2,955             84%




                                                        26
                               Total Project Cost by Component (in USD Thousand equivalent)
                                                                 Formally
                                                                 Revised    Variance                % of        % of
                                                  Appraisal                               ICR
               Components                                  1     Estimate    from                 Appraisal   Revised
                                                  Estimate                             Estimate
                                                                   Nov      Apprais.              Estimate    Estimate
                                                                   2011
Component A: Herders' Electricity Access
A1    Sales and Services Network Devel.          95       100      100                    100       100%       100%
A2    Quality Standards and Compliance          190       200      200                    94        47%         47%
A3    Marketing and Sales/Service Support       571       600      600                    566       94%         94%
A4a   Smart Subsidy                            10,700   10,700    7,791      (2,909)     7,791      73%        100%
A4b   Bulk Procurement of SHSs                                    3,200       3,200      3,200                 100%
       Subtotal Component A                  11,557     11,600    11,891      291       11,751      101%        99%
Component B: Soum Center Electricity Service
B1    SC Utility Policy and Regulation           76       80        80                    80        100%       100%
B2    SC Capacity Building                      343       360      236        (124)       233       65%         99%
B3    Feasibility Studies                       381       400      400                    112       28%         28%
B4    Energy Management Assistance               48       50        50                        8     16%         16%
B5    Rehabilitation of SC Power Grids          818       900      877        (23)        877       97%        100%
B6    Renewable or Hybrid Systems              7,545     8,300    8,197       (103)      8,001      96%         98%
          Subtotal Component B                 9,211    10,090    9,840       (250)      9,311      92%         95%
Component C: Institutional Capacity Building
      NREC Institutional Development            190      200       200                    200       100%       100%
C1
      Project Management, M&E                   676      710       760         50         756       106%        99%
C2    National Policy and Regulation            381      400       309        (91)        212       53%         69%
             Subtotal Component C              1,248    1,310     1,269       (41)       1,168      89%         92%
Total Base Cost                                22,016
      Physical Contingencies                    418
       Price Contingencies                      566
Total Project Cost                             23,000   23,000    23,000        0       22,230      97%         97%




                                                         27
(b) Financing (in US$ Million Equivalent)

                                                              Actual/    Percentage
                                     Type of     Appraisal
        Source of Funds                                        Latest        of
                                    Financing    Estimates
                                                             Estimates    Appraisal
                                   Counterpart
Government of Mongolia                            10.00       10.00        100%
                                  Funds in MNT
Global Environment Facility
                                                                            84%
(GEF)                                 Grant        3.50        2.96
IDA                                   Grant        3.50        3.43         98%
Government of the Netherlands         Grant        6.00        5.85         97%
             Total                    3,200       23.00       22.23         97%




                                            28
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


                                                                     Actual Accomplishments at the Time of ICR and
             Appraisal Plans
                                                                                 Reasons for Deviation

Component A: Herders’ Electricity Access – establishment of rural retail and service network for private and public investments in
standalone solar home systems (SHS) and small wind turbine systems
A1    Facilitate the development of a            A network of 50 SSCs was established, covering the sale of SHSs across all 21 Aimags. The
      retail/service network consisting of       privately operated centers were selected, trained and certified under REAP. They played a
      certified private dealers and about 50     critical role in providing sales and after-sale services which enhanced the life and proper
      SSCs at Aimag and Soum centers             functioning of the SHSs, consumer electronics and small appliances. A private sector network
                                                 where the companies self-finance SHSs and claimed the subsidy upon sale to the herders was
                                                 also established to extend the distribution network further. A herder survey is being conducted
                                                 to evaluate the impact of the project, herders’ satisfaction, and the scope for continuation of the
                                                 Renewable Energy Program for universal connectivity by 2020.

A2    Introduce product quality standards,       REAP adopted 15 standards from “Recommendations for small renewable energy and hybrid
      compliance and warranty requirements       systems for rural electrification? of the IEC to establish the technical specifications for RETs.
                                                 The project also adopted the SHS Implementation Standard developed in 2005 under the Bank
                                                 assisted China Renewable Energy Development Project. The SHSs sold were inspected for
                                                 quality and certified to meet stringent standards to enable the herders to purchase them with
                                                 confidence. The RET systems installed and mini grids rehabilitated under the REAP were
                                                 under factory warranty for the first one to three years.

A3    Organize national and local                Information campaigns and outreach programs were organized; catalogs and demonstration
      information campaigns and outreach         equipment to support marketing, sales and services of SHSs were also developed and
      programs, and develop and distribute       distributed. The PIU also selected project ideas to strengthen various aspects for the
      catalogs and demonstration equipment       development of the market reach programs and information campaigns to increase herders’
      to support marketing, sales and services   awareness. Proposals to compete for funding were submitted by equipment supplier, consulting
                                                 firm, financial institution, NGO and government agencies.




                                                                        29
                                                                  Actual Accomplishments at the Time of ICR and
             Appraisal Plans
                                                                              Reasons for Deviation
A4a   Provide co-financing (smart subsidies)   At the time of ICR, 67,224 SHSs had been sold. Of the total, 6,824 (about 10%) were sold
      to buy down acquisition cost of 50,000   through private dealers certified under REAP while the balance were sold through the 50 SSC
      SHSs to provide incentive for sale by    established under the project and the existing GOM network of Soum administrations following
      private dealers and enhance              the bulk procurement system of the Government. Sale reached all Aimags and many of the
      affordability of herders                 dispersed and remote locations. Most systems were sold to herders with a subsidy of $160 per
                                               unit. The bulk of the subsidies were funded by GON, with a small number funded by the Bank
                                               (as discussed under the second restructuring). The users paid the difference, sometimes with
                                               small loans provided by a network of financial institutions. Target number of SHSs sold was
                                               surpassed by almost 35%.

A4b   Component added after the first          $3.2M of GON funds was relocated from A4a to this subcomponent to speed up implementation
      restructurings (8/5/09) for the bulk     of SHS sales. The closing date was also extended by six months to accommodate GOM’s goal
      purchase of SHSs                         or meeting the target set under the National 100,000 Solar Ger Electrification Program in 2012.
                                               At the conclusion of REAP, GOM would have supplied 100,146 SHSs, of which 67,224 units
                                               were supplied under the REAP.

                                               A range of capacity building activities had been conducted to provide support to the GOM
                                               officials, SSCs and private dealers. The project also organized technical and management
                                               workshops and training for the SSCs to help them expand their markets (e.g. 5-day workshop at
                                               the end of 2011, learning trips for herders to expose them to business opportunities). They
                                               include training, workshops, and study tours. During the period from September 2009 to June
                                               2012, over 840 participated in 23 such events (i.e. three of the four National Renewable Energy
                                               Forums for 130-160 participants each).




                                                                     30
Component B: Off-grid Soum center electricity service – Soum utility service reform, local power network rehabilitation, and
introduction of renewable or renewable-diesel hybrid power generation systems
B1    Develop a policy and regulatory             The operational situation underwent substantial changes after project implementation started in
      framework for off-grid Soum center          that either the newly rehabilitated systems were connected to the main grid or the newly built
      electricity service operation including a   RET systems were destined to be handed over to the nearest centralized Energy Supply
      cost effective tariff and billing system,   Companies at the Aimag level. [Latest: Ownership of electricity networks and utility services
      asset and operation management,             had been transferred from Aimag to Regional State Property Companies. There are also
      business planning, and legislation to       potential changes in the tariff setting authority from the Aimag regulatory committee to the
      facilitate private participation            electricity regulatory authority. ] A study to promote regulatory and policy framework for
                                                  renewable energy, including rationalizing tariff setting commenced as of late 2011. Operations
                                                  of Aimag utilities were reviewed. Key issues were identified and consultant services had been
                                                  utilized to address them. The consultant’s report was discussed with the Bank and the revised
                                                  report provided a reasonable methodology and recommendations on the establishment of
                                                  suitable tariffs in various Soums.

B2    Build capacity of Soum centers and          15 user associations were established for systems not connected to the main grid. The tariff
      enhance community involvement               study (B1) enabled the user associations, Soum governments and Aimag utilities to address the
      through the creation of SC user             pricing policies for the Soum power systems. Operations of Soum utilities were reviewed,
      associations, SC utilities (including TA    some key information was missing, many operational parameters were not monitored on a
      and training for their management and       regular basis, and little analytical work was being carried out. At project completion, these
      business plans)                             identified issues were still being addressed. In the few Soums where data is available, losses, at
                                                  less than 10%, and collection, at about 98% were satisfactory.

B3    Develop technical and feasibility           All technical and feasibility studies and bidding documents for the configuration and
      studies and bidding documents               construction of small renewable or hybrid systems and SC mini-grid rehabilitation were
                                                  completed in accordance with revised plans for rehabilitation as detailed in B5 and B6.

B4    Provide cross-sector TA to Soum-level       This TA was not carried out. The reason stated by the PIU was that since the whole soum
      public institutions on energy               benefited from the RET systems including public institutions it was not necessary to develop
      management                                  separate TA only for public institutions.
B5    Rehabilitate 30 mini grids in 30 off-       30 mini grids rehabilitated. After the first 15, the government requested that the remaining 15
      grid SCs where user associations and        dilapidated grids be more substantially rehabilitated or replaced in order to avoid the need for
      utilities will be established               further rehabilitation in the medium term. This was agreed.




                                                                         31
B6     Convert existing diesel generation        Of the 20 plants selected, GOM connected five to the national grid, leaving 15 for REAP. All
       plants to renewable or renewable-diesel   15 RET systems had been installed. The four funded by IDA/GEF/GON (PV systems) were
       hybrid (R/RH) Systems in 20 SCs           fully commissioned and running satisfactorily. Among the 11 financed by the Government five
       where the mini grids are rehabilitated    WT systems experienced major problems which were rectified either by repair or replacement
                                                 by the time of the ICR. Total capacity of the 15 Soum centers RETs are 1,210 kW solar PV
                                                 and 790 kW WTSs. Due to demand growth, installed capacity of four systems were augmented
                                                 to 100/200kW. All 15 systems have either been or are expected to be transferred to Aimag
                                                 level utility companies.

                                                 [Components B5 and B6 yielded 30 Soums with more reliable and improved service either
                                                 through grid rehabilitation or installation of RET systems, benefitting 28,138 people.]
Component C: National policy development and institutional strengthening – development of policies and regulations for grid-connected
and off-grid renewable energy investments, project management, and monitoring and evaluation.
C1a Assist in the institutional development The role of NREC in the implementation of REAP had changed in that its responsibilities had
       of NREC, the agency responsible for   mostly been transferred to the Energy Authority. Over time it roles evolved and in early 2009
       the national renewable energy agenda, NREC was reestablished as a self-financing state owned enterprise that is responsible for
       through training, business planning,  advancing the market for renewable energy, including a major focus in photo-voltaic. As such,
       work program development etc.         the appraisal goal to establish a clear organizational and business plan for NREC was still
                                             relevant given the important role it plays in the renewable energy sector. At the time of project
                                             completion, NREC had a clear business plan and structure and was operating on a commercial
                                             basis, producing equipment, implementing projects and providing technical and engineering
                                             services.
C1b Support project management,              PIU was established and staffed as a condition of effectiveness. Procurement and financial
       monitoring and evaluation             management practices and performance were monitored throughout project implementation.
                                             Issues identified in procurement, internal control, documentation and reporting had been
                                             resolved.
C2     Assist in the development of a        Mongolia adopted a Renewable Energy Law in January 11, 2007 which covered the content of
       regulatory framework and associated   this component. As a result, this component, as designed, was no longer needed.
       legislation for grid-connected RET
       systems




                                                                      32
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

 Herder Access. At appraisal three alternative household lighting sources were
compared: candles, kerosene lamp and solar home system (SHS). The difficulty in
comparing the three alternatives lies in the fact that the quality and quantity of service is
very different. Lighting service can be measured by the amount of lumen provided
multiplied by the number of hours they are provided – i.e. lumen hours. In the table
below the cost per unit of lumen hours is calculated

                                        At Appraisal                           At Completion
                                           Kerosene                              Kerosene
                              Candles       Lamp           SHS5      Candles      Lamp           SHS

    Consumption/Replacement
    Sticks/year                365                                    365
    Kerosene (l/year)                         40                                    40
    Wicks (pieces/year)                       4                                      4
    New lamp
                                              1                                      1
    (every 5 years)
    New light bulbs
                                                            2                                     2
    (every 2 years)
    New battery
                                                            1                                     1
    (every 2 years)
    PV Module                                               1                                     1
    Specifications
    Service hours               2.5          400          3,000        2.5          400         3,000
    Light output (lum.)         8.0           45           720         8.0          45           720
    Daily Usage (hours)         2.5           4             4          2.5           4            4
    Lumen hours/year           7,300        65,700       1,051,200    7,300       65,700       1,051,200
    Costs
    Candlestick                $0.15                                  $0.22

    Kerosene lamp                           $3.00                                  $3.5
    SHS                                                  $160.00                               $400.00
    Kerosene (l)                            $0.65                                  $1.0
    Wick                                    $1.00                                  $1.0
    Battery                                               $50.00                               $115.00
    Lamp                                                  $3.00                                 $3.60
    Annualized costs
                               55.00        31.00         42.00       79.00        45.00        89.00
    ($/year)
    Cost per unit of
                               7.53          0.47          0.04       10.82        0.68          0.08
    service ($/kLh)



5
    2x8W CFLs of a 20Wp




                                                    33
The table shows that at appraisal there was a clear cost effectiveness advantage of using
SHS as compared to candles and kerosene lamps. At project completion the advantage of
SHS is maintained. The results show that unit costs (measured as US$ per thousand
lumen hours) have been reduced by a factor of 94 (from 7.5 to 0.08) when comparing
with candles – the most common baseline and by a factor of 9 when comparing with
kerosene lamps.

Soum Center Supply

At appraisal it was estimated that a wind-diesel hybrid system would require a tariff at
$0.49/kWh to achieve full cost recovery. However, taking into account that the
investment would be grant funded a partial cost recovery scenario (variable costs only)
would require a tariff of $0.17/kWh (see calculations in table below). The resulting
subsidy was of the order of $0.32/kWh.

It was also calculated that a solar-diesel hybrid would require a tariff of $0.80 for full
cost recovery leading to an effective subsidy of around $0.55-0.65/kWh depending on the
performance of the solar system.

At project completion the wind-diesel hybrid is regarded as a less relevant option because
of operational problems in the GoM financed projects, which have not allowed for
systematic collection of reliable performance data. All four SC RETs financed by this
project are solar-diesel hybrids so a financial analysis has been prepared for this
technology set.

Calculations are presented for the solar-diesel hybrid in Altai, which is representative of
the four SC RETs financed by the project. Altai is chosen because it is the SC utility with
the most complete performance data available.

The following are the key assumptions used in the calculations:

   (i)     The investment in Altai was US$1.8 million in 2009. However, since costs of
           solar panels have been dramatically reduced during the last three years it is
           estimated that the same system today would cost US1-1.2 million;
   (ii)    Total electricity delivered factors in a technical loss of 10 percent in the Altai
           scenario (this is more accurate than the 15 percent used in the PAD scenario)
   (iii)   A target internal rate of return of 10 percent is used to determine the partial
           and full cost recovery tariffs; and
   (iv)    O&M costs are based on comparative estimates with the values used in the
           PAD since no information is available for the Altai system. The costs include
           scheduled overhauls and battery replacements.

The result of the calculation for Altai is presented in the table below:




                                             34
                                                Unit           (Altai) Solar-diesel
    Total Electricity Delivered               kWh/year               317,848
    Costs
     Initial investment6                          $                 (1,800,000)
     - O&M                                      $/year                (53,854)
    Revenue Needed
     Partial Cost Recovery                      $/year                 53,854
     Full Cost Recovery                         $/year                286,063
    Cost Recovery Tariff
     Partial Cost Recovery                      $/kWh                   0.17
     Full Cost Recovery                         $/kWh                   0.90

The calculations indicate that a 10 percent financial rate of return would require average
tariffs $0.90/kWh for full cost recovery whereas break-even at partial cost recovery will
be achieved at $0.17/kWh. The implicit subsidy is in other words $0.73 or somewhat
higher than assumed at appraisal for this technology. However most of this difference can
be accounted for by inflation.

Reduction of Carbon Dioxide

Total reduction in CO2 emissions was estimated to be 11,333 ton/year, exceeding appraisal target
by 2,333 ton/year or about 26% based on

       (i)       RET systems in SCs: the actual installed capacity and an assumed RET
                 utilization rate of 20%,
       (ii)      Herder component: the SHS have been assumed to displace kerosene lamps in
                 line with the assumption of the PAD.7




6
    Only included in the full cost recovery scenario

7
  In fact SHS have fully replaced kerosene lamps as the preferred source of lighting. Kerosene lamps are no longer
commonly used by herders.




                                                         35
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                              Responsibility/
         Names                            Title                   Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
Arturo S. Rivera          Lead Energy Specialist               ECSS2     Task Team Leader
Bernard Baratz            Consultant                           MNSEG     Environment
Carla Teresa Sarmiento    Program Assistant                    EASIN     Administrative
Carlos Ricardo Escudero   Consultant                           LEGLA     Legal
Charles A. Husband        Consultant                           ECSS2     Financial Analysis
David I                   Sr Financial Management Specialist   EAPFM     Financial Management
Xiaoping Li               Senior Procurement Specialist        AFTPC     Procurement
Ximing Peng               Senior Energy Specialist             EASCS     Operations

Supervision/ICR
 Arturo S. Rivera         Lead Energy Specialist               ECSS2     Task Team Leader
 Chrisantha Ratnayake     Consultant                            EASIS    Renewable Energy
 Cristina Hernandez       Program Assistant                    EASWE     Administrative
 Dhruva Sahai             Sr Financial Analyst                 EASIN     Economist
 Dulguun Byambatsoo       Consultant                           EACMF     Consultant
 Feng Liu                 Senior Energy Specialist             SEGES     Economist
 Haixia Li                Sr Financial Management Specialist   EAPFM     Financial Management
 James A. Reichert        Senior Infrastructure Specialist     EASCS     Operations
 Jinan Shi                Senior Procurement Specialist        EAPPR     Procurement
 Joanne S. Nickerson      Operations Analyst                   EASSD     Implementation Support
 Martin M. Serrano        Senior Counsel                       LEGES     Legal
 Nina Masako Eejima       Senior Counsel                       LEGEN     Legal
 Nomuutugs Tuvaan         Program Assistant                    EASMF     Administrative
 Peter Johansen           Senior Energy Specialist             EASWE     Task Team Leader
 Robert J. van der Plas   Consultant                           EASCS     Renewable Energy
 Tumentsogt Tsevegmid     Senior Infrastructure Specialist     EASCS     Operations

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         US$ Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
 P084766                                            36.8                    202,698
 P099321                                            13.1                     73,067
                           Total:                   49.9                    275,765
Supervision/ICR
 P084766                                            13.2                     27,576
 P099321                                            61.5                    178,005
Total                                               74.7                    205,582



                                           36
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

This annex is comprised of two parts: A. a sampling survey among herders in two
selected Aimags; and B. a rapid appraisal of residents in Soum Centers

                  A. Summary of Survey of Herder Electrification

A “Survey of Herder Electrification? was carried out in October 2012 in order to evaluate
the impact of the dissemination of SHS to the herder population. The survey consisted of
face-to-face interviews with 789 herder households in ten Soums of Khentii and
Bayankhongor Aimags. The 789 households were chosen randomly from the total of
1490 herder families that were registered as purchasers of a SHS through the project in
those ten Soums. The preliminary analysis of the data collected resulted in a quantitative
assessment of the user satisfaction and socio-economic impacts linked with the
installation of SHS. Some key results are presented in the following with four main areas
of focus, namely: (i) Customer Satisfaction; (ii) Communication; (iii) Access to
Information; and (iv) Attitude. In the following pages some of the key results are
presented in bar charts showing response percentage of total households interviewed on
the y-axis.

       -   Customer Satisfaction




                                           37
-   Communication




                    38
Access to Information




                        39
Attitude




           40
            B. Summary of Rapid Appraisal of Soum Electricity Service Sites

Introduction

A rapid appraisal was conducted In October 2012. Three sites were selected: Mandakh
Soum Center in Dornogobi Aimag, Bayantooroi Bag in Gobi-Altai Aimag, and Altai
Soum in Gobi-Altai Aimag. They represent two different regions of the country, RETs
involving both wind and solar power, at least one site financed by the GOM, and at least
one site financed by the World Bank.

In order to assess potential development outcomes at both the household and community
level, individual heads of households, public administrators, business owners, and public
service providers (educators and medical workers) were interviewed at each site. The
team also spoke with representatives of the aimag power utility companies that have
assumed ownership of the RET systems. Interviews were semi-structured, following an
outline of questions that was adjusted depending on circumstances and relevance to the
interviewee. From the 34 interviews, a mix of qualitative and quantitative data was
collected. Due to the small sample size and the nature of the appraisal, quantitative
findings are only preliminary and must be confirmed with additional research.

Findings

All three sites have experienced transformative changes in the past two to three
years. While not all of these changes are attributable to REAP, the increased supply of
electricity in the Soums has been a critical enabling factor. Prior to REAP, grid-supplied
electricity was provided to consumers in each of the project sites for only four to five
hours per day. Since the RET-diesel hybrid systems were installed, average daily service
provision has increased to 11 hours in Mandakh, 18 hours in Bayantooroi, and 15 hours
in Altai. Development outcomes facilitated by the increased supply of electricity have
occurred at both the household and community level.

Household-level Improvements

       More cost-effective electricity and lighting services. Household spending on
electricity has likely decreased on a per kWh basis thanks to REAP. Prior to REAP,
consumers in each of the soums paid a flat rate ranging from MNT 5,000 to MNT 13,000
to help offset the cost of buying diesel fuel for the soum generator. Given the limited
supply of electricity and low rates of appliance ownership, monthly diesel fees paid by
households equaled an effective tariff of MNT 130 to MNT 430 per kWh. Since the RET
systems and meters were installed by REAP, households in the three sites have paid a rate
of MNT 132 per kWh.8 At the same time, hours of grid-supplied electricity each day
have increased, and households are using more electricity compared to before the project,
evidence that REAP has satisfied a latent demand for an undersupplied service.

8
  As of September 2012, the rate set by the Aimag regulators in Gobi-Altai and Dornogobi was MNT 120 plus 10
percent VAT. The rates in Dornogobi were set to increase to MNT 135 plus tax starting in October.



                                                       41
It is also likely that the cost effectiveness of household lighting has improved in at least
some of the soums. Prior to REAP, most households used incandescent lamps during the
hours of grid-supplied electricity in the evening. During off-grid hours, they either lit
candles or powered small DC lamps with SHSs. Many households in Bayantooroi and
Altai already owned SHSs prior to REAP while they were quite rare in Mandakh. In the
intervening years since REAP, most households have replaced their incandescent lamps
with more efficient, brighter compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs), and candle use has
decreased. For Mandakh, it was estimated that household spending on lighting has
decreased by around 50-60 percent on a cost per lumen hour basis. About 90 percent of
these savings were due to decreased candle use and lower electricity costs attributable to
REAP; the remainder was from households replacing incandescent lamps with CFLs.
Because of the prevalence of SHSs in Bayantooroi and Altai, the difference is likely
much smaller there. Determining the welfare effects of such changes in household
spending on lighting and electricity was beyond the scope of the rapid appraisal.

       Greater convenience in performing household tasks. Appliance ownership in
each of the soums increased dramatically after the installation of the RET systems. Most
households interviewed reported only owning a television and electric iron prior to REAP.
Since REAP, they have all acquired a refrigerator or freezer, washing machine, and
kitchen appliances such as electric kettles and hot pots. The greater use of appliances has
made performing household tasks more convenient. There is evidence that household
cooking habits have changed as a result. Some households have reportedly added more
variety to their diets, for example, by baking with electric ovens or preparing rice with
electric cookers. Even during the winters when households rely on their coal-burning
stoves, interviewees say having the option to cook with electricity is helpful if they do not
have time to prepare a meal on their stoves. The added flexibility of using electricity has
benefited working women in terms of time savings especially, since they continue to do
most of the cooking9 and washing.

       Added time for leisure and productive activities. Residents all said they feel less
rushed in the evenings now, and that the increased supply of electricity has freed up time
for other activities. They tend to stay up later now—versus before when most would go
to sleep once the diesel generator shut off for the night—and they tend to watch
television for more hours per day, indicating more time for leisure. Some have
capitalized on the additional time to engage in productive activities, such as the teachers
in Bayantooroi and Altai use their computers at night to prepare lessons for the following
day, or the entrepreneur in Mandakh who sells bread and cakes that she bakes in the
afternoons and evenings after finishing her day job.




9
  Ironically, the most compelling evidence of the added convenience and flexibility afforded to working women in the
soums was the inconvenience suffered by these women as a result of the recent power outages.




                                                         42
       The ability to refrigerate food. Households identified being able to refrigerate
food as one of the biggest improvements associated with the increased supply of
electricity. Meat is central to the diet of most families in the soums. Prior to REAP,
storing meat in the summers was difficult because the limited hours of diesel-supplied
power each night were insufficient to operate electric refrigerators or freezers. Today,
most households have refrigerators or freezers, allowing them to keep fresh meat for
longer in the warm months and to prepare frozen meat to keep through much of the
winter and spring (which many said they prefer to dried meat). Households are also able
to store dairy and refrigerated foods purchased from soum grocers, such as dumplings or
yogurt. While the health benefits of having access to food refrigeration are difficult to
assess, several interviewees did say that they felt their diets had improved and that family
members experienced fewer stomach problems from spoiled food now.

       Expanded access to information and communication. Access to information and
modern communication has been facilitated by the improved supply of electricity to
households. Mobile phone service providers began operating in each of the three project
sites after 2009. Prior to that, the only telephone connection was the central line at the
post office. Relying on a single line for the entire soum hindered the ability of residents
to communicate with people outside. There were long lines; having a private
conversation was out of the question; and it was difficult for people outside to call in
because the line was constantly occupied. While the cell towers that were installed in the
soum centers run on an independent power supply, having additional hours of grid-
supplied power has enabled the regular use of mobile phones by residents—especially for
larger households with multiple phones and students boarding in the school
dormitories—because residents are able to charge their phones throughout the day.

Subscription satellite TV offerings have also improved significantly in the soums. Now,
residents can purchase subscription packages of up to 70 channels (as opposed to four a
few years ago), including nearly 30 Mongolian language channels. Access to information
through television has been enhanced by REAP, especially for people who spend
significant amounts of time at home during the days. Elderly interviewees said they have
learned about public assistance programs for retirees by watching daytime television,
while parents said that their children are now able to watch children’s daytime
programming. Households without satellite TV are able to watch a handful of channels
which are broadcast from the soum telecom office.

Community-level Improvements

       Improved public service provision. The introduction of a daytime supply of
electricity has been instrumental to improving the provision of public services such as
medical care. The clinics in Mandakh and Bayantooroi have both acquired a range of
new medical equipment, including x-ray machines, oxygen concentrators, and devices for
electrotherapy. Prior to REAP, the use of such equipment was hampered because the
clinics relied on small diesel generators for power. The generators were run sparingly,
and because the soum administration had a limited budget for fuel, shortages were
common. Since REAP, the clinic in Bayantooroi has ceased to rely on diesel for power


                                            43
during the day (shortages are still a problem in Mandakh due to prolonged blackouts).
The ability of the clinics to treat patients using modern medical equipment has also
benefited from improved lighting, which, according to the nurses interviewed, has made
it easier to give injections and perform other procedures.

Improvements in public services were also evidenced by the better conditions seen in the
schools in all three sites which enroll children of the local population as well as those
from herder families and the surrounding bags. Many of these children board (for
example, in Bayantooroi, the dormitory houses more than 110 children, out of a student
body of 280). According to the school principals interviewed, conditions in the dorms
are much better since REAP. Children no longer use candles for lighting, eliminating a
potential fire hazard, and the dorms have all been fitted with compact fluorescent lamps,
improving the quality of light. Almost all of the children own mobile phones, which they
use to communicate with their families. Because they are able to use washing machines,
students can wash their clothes more regularly, and hygiene has improved. There is also
evidence that the quality and variety of instruction in the classroom has improved. The
teachers in Bayantooroi and Altai all own laptop computers that they may use for lesson
planning, and the schools have outfitted computer labs to offer computer courses.

       Perceived growth of small businesses. Residents interviewed credited REAP with
spurring the growth of small businesses. 10 In each of the soums, entrepreneurs were
found who started new businesses after REAP, including a bakery, a family hotel, a
cinderblock-making workshop, and a snack shop, which relied on power supplied from
the soum grid. Existing businesses may have expanded their stock of goods for sale. For
example, grocers and dry good stores in each of the soums now sell frozen and
refrigerated foods in addition to basic electric appliances such as electric hot pots and
kettles. Prior to REAP, demand for such appliances would have been limited, and it was
not possible for stores to keep cold foods in stock for long.

Lessons Learned from Recent Disruptions and Recommendations

Positive changes in household and community life have been undercut by recent power
disruptions that have occurred at each of the project sites. In Mandakh, problems with
the charge controller have left the wind turbines operating at reduced capacity since
around May 2012, while the solar PV has been at reduced capacity since mid-October.
Because the Dornogobi Aimag Electricity Distribution Company (which assumed
ownership of the Mandakh RET-hybrid system in 2011) has refused to operate the hybrid
system’s diesel generator, service provision in the evenings and mornings has been
severely restricted. In Bayantooroi, power to one of the two main grid lines was shut off
in late-September 2012 due to de-charged batteries in the system battery bank, and


10
   Due to the limited availability of consumer meter records in the soums, it was not possible to verify whether the
number of businesses has actually grown. For example, power meter records for commercial users in Altai show that
the number of private businesses with metered grid connections did not increase between May 2011 and September
2012; however, records were not available for 2010 to compare.




                                                         44
restored in late-October. During these three to four weeks, local operators for the Altai-
Uliastai Energy System Company (which now owns the systems in both Bayantooroi and
Altai) supplied power to the affected part of the bag for around six hours per day by
operating the hybrid system’s diesel generator. The problem was fixed, and power was
restored to the affected area at the time of visit. In Altai, power to one of the three main
grid lines was cut for nearly two months between July and August 2012 and then again
starting in October. Consumers on the affected grid line include the school, kindergarten,
bank, restaurants, shops, and about 40 households. During the prolonged outages,
electricity has been supplied to the line for around five hours per day by running the
hybrid system’s diesel generators.

Apart from inconveniencing households, causing economic losses to businesses, and
limiting the ability of institutional users to provide public services, power disruptions
have also hurt the confidence of soum consumers in the reliability of RET-supplied
electricity. In Mandakh, which has the lowest average for hours of service provided per
day among the three sites visited, residents consistently expressed the view that
connecting to the central grid would be preferable. While they agreed that the RET
system was an obvious improvement over the old diesel generator, they also complained
about the unreliability of the electricity supply, and voiced dissatisfaction with not being
able to use high wattage appliances such as hot plates for cooking.

Several lessons can be distilled from the problems encountered with the RET systems in
three sites. Consumer demand for electricity in the soums increased much more quickly
than initially expected. According to the chief engineer of the Altai-Uliastai Energy
System Company, demand in Bayantooroi and Altai has already reached or exceed the
capacity of the solar stations. In fact, the recent malfunctioning of the systems during the
late summer months when electricity use is at its highest may be linked to overloading.
Investments in expanding the capacity of the systems may be needed to ensure a
continued high level of performance and service delivery. The company has investigated
the need for additional capacity, but does not have the capacity to make the investments.

The reluctance of the Dornogobi and Altai-Uliastai power utility companies to take real
ownership of the RET systems has been further reinforced by the challenges faced by the
companies in maintaining and repairing the systems. Making repairs is costly, and spare
parts are difficult to locate in Mongolia. Because the companies are responsible for
overseeing much larger centralized grid systems, according to company officials, it is
difficult for them to divert scarce resources in sending repair crews to service smaller,
more remote consumer centers. Furthermore, the companies lack trained technicians and
engineers familiar with off-grid renewable energy systems to make the needed repairs, so
they continue to rely on experts at the National Renewable Energy Center.

The companies’ willingness to act as owners has also been dulled by the fact that the
small-scale renewable power systems are not seen as being profitable. Both the
Dornogobi and Altai-Uliastai power utilities have claimed that they are operating the
RET-systems at a loss. While neither company would provide data on revenue and O&M
costs, in the case of the Altai-Uliastai company at least, it appears the claim is true. For



                                            45
example, in consumers in Altai Soum were billed a total of MNT 2.625 million for
August 2012; however, the company used more than 2,400 liters of diesel fuel to power
the Altai generator that month. With the price of diesel around MNT 1,800 per liter, total
fuel costs for August were roughly MNT 4.32 million, far greater than revenues. The
Dornogobi and Altai-Uliastai companies are unable to raise tariffs to cover operating
costs because the tariffs must be set by the aimag regulators. While the aimag power
utility companies remain the best option for managing the off-grid renewable energy
systems in the soum centers, they will require additional financial and technical support
to ensure that they have the capacity to effectively manage the systems, and the flexibility
to adjust tariffs to cover costs.

On the consumer side, the ability of soum residents to hold the utility companies
accountable for the performance of the RET systems has been weakened by the inactivity
of the electricity users’ associations. The associations, created as part of REAP, were
originally intended to ensure the rights and responsibilities of consumers were adequately
represented in decisions related to the management of the RET systems. Associations
were lawfully established in each of the 15 soum centers that received RET systems
financed by REAP; however, in the soums visited, it was learned that the associations
have ceased to function. Without this formal mechanism for consumer representatives to
engage directly with the system managers at the utility companies, communication
between provider and users has been poor. As a soum representative in Bayantooroi said,
consumers do not understand why power disruptions have occurred, and they are
concerned that restrictions will continue into the future. Reconstituting the associations
and bridging the communication gap is needed to strengthen the management of the
systems and improve the responsiveness of the utility companies.




                                            46
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)


None




                                     47
Annex 7: Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on the ICR

The following report summarizes the views of representatives of the Ministry of Finance,
Energy Authority, and Ministry of Energy on behalf of the Government of Mongolia on
the implementation and completion of the Renewable Energy and Rural Electricity
Access Project (REAP), co-financed by the International Development Association (IDA),
the Global Environment Facility (GEF), and the Government of the Netherlands (GoN),
with funding from the Government of Mongolia.

I. Project Alignment with National Goals and Priorities

The Government of Mongolia views improving access to modern forms of energy as
crucial for the development of rural areas. At the start of the twenty-first century, only
nine percent of nomadic herder households in the country had electricity. About 80
percent of residents in soum centers were connected to electricity, but more than two-
thirds of these settlements relied on power from small diesel generators that only
operated a few hours a day. Without an adequate and reliable supply of electricity, rural
residents were limited in their ability to receive information and communicate with the
outside world, and the delivery of services such as education in rural areas was badly
hampered. The need to improve access to electricity was apparent.

The priority of rural electrification was—and continues to be—reflected in the policies of
the Government. In 2000, the Government launched a major initiative to provide access
to 100,000 herder households in rural areas with access to solar electricity (the “National
100,000 Solar Ger Program,? or “100,000 Solar Ger Program?). In 2005, the Mongolian
Parliament passed the National Renewable Energy Program (NREP) to provide
renewable electricity to all distant soums and settlements for which connecting to the
centralized power grid was uneconomical. Under NREP, the Government adopted the
near-term objective of electrifying at least 13 soum centers by 2010, and reaffirmed its
commitment to achieve the targets for the 100,000 Solar Ger Program.

The objectives of the Renewable Energy and Rural Electricity Access Project (REAP)
were thus fully aligned with the Government’s policies to expand access to renewable-
based energy in rural areas, and instrumental in achieving important national goals.

II. Project Outcomes

REAP was successful in fulfilling its objective of increasing access to electricity and
improve reliability of electricity service among the herder population and in off-grid
soum centers. REAP has provided access to electricity to nearly a half million herders in
some of the most remote parts of the country, as well as improving the supply of
electricity to soum center residents.




                                            48
       A. Herders’ Electricity Access

REAP successfully expanded herders’ access to electricity. The original target for REAP
was to distribute 50,000 SHS units to ger households before the end of 2011 (in addition
to the 32,922 units supplied by the Government prior to the start of REAP). By
November 30, 2011, 54,841 SHS units had been finance and sold under the project,
raising the cumulative total of households supplied with SHS units as part of the 100,000
Solar Ger Program to 87,763. To successfully complete the 100,000 Solar Ger Program,
the Government requested that REAP be extended to support the sales of additional units.
As a result, by the time REAP reached its extended closing date of June 30, 2012, the
project had financed and supplied a total of 67,244 SHS units, bringing the cumulative
number of herder households provided with SHS units as part of the 100,000 Solar Ger
Program to 100,146. Thanks to REAP, the Government of Mongolia achieved and
surpassed its target for expanding access of herder households to modern electricity
services.

Solar power providing lighting inside a ger (Photo credit: Stephen Bachenheimer/World Bank)
Realizing the goals of the 100,000 Solar Ger Program has benefited Mongolia’s herder
population, and promoted the development of a market for renewable energy solutions
among herder households. More than half of the herder households in Mongolia have
gained access to electricity through the use of renewable energy and are now aware of
how renewable energy can improve their lives. Herder households with SHSs are more
connected to information from the outside world through TV and radio, and able to
communicate with mobile phones. They have better lighting in their homes at night in the
gers, and rely less on candles. This experience using renewable energy solutions that
herders have gained under REAP and the 100,000 Solar Ger Program will be
fundamental to growing the market for household use of renewable energy in future years.

       B. Soum Center Electricity Service

REAP successfully increased the number of people in off-grid soum centers with access
to more reliable electricity services, benefiting more than 18,400 soum residents.

The initial scope of REAP investment activities to improve electricity service in the soum
centers entailed: (1) rehabilitating the local mini-grids in 30 soum centers, and (2)
converting existing diesel generators to renewable-diesel hybrid systems in about 20
soum centers. Shortly after REAP began, the Government decided to fast-track its plans
and increased the budget for rural electrification. In March 2007, Mongolian Parliament
adopted Resolution 50, allocating MNT 61.3 billion to connect 50 soum centers to the
centralized power grid and MNT 8.7 billion to build renewable energy or renewable
energy-diesel hybrid systems to power 10 soum centers.

By the end of 2008, the Government had funded renewable energy systems in 12 soum
centers. The bidding and selection process for the contactors to install the renewable
energy systems in these 12 soums was completed entirely by the Government. The
majority of the systems financed by the Government during the first two years of REAP



                                           49
were small wind power systems. These systems experienced a range of technical
problems, including blade, generator, and electrical system failures. Repairing the
systems was difficult as spare parts were not readily available, and travel to the project
sites in remote areas was costly. As of 2009, only two of the Government-funded systems
were fully-operational; and no REAP-funded systems had been put in place. A lesson
learned from this experience was that the quality of the installed systems may have been
improved by strengthening the procedures and requirements for procurement. This could
have been done by including specific technical requirements in the terms of the contracts
and establishing a more rigorous selection process based on the qualifications of the
bidding documents submitted by the contractors.

Based on its initial experience, and in light of the invigorated pace of its own plans for
rural electrification, the Government requested in 2008 that the scope of REAP
investments be narrowed to include a few larger-capacity solar PV stations in a smaller
number of soums. In the view of the Government, larger-capacity systems were needed to
reduce intermittency and instill greater consumer confidence in the reliability of
renewable power supply in the soum centers. The World Bank was responsive to the
requested changes, and the project was formally restructured in 2009 so that IDA, GEF,
and GoN funds were used to construct solar-diesel hybrid systems in four soum centers,
and to rehabilitate the mini-grids in 15 soum centers (including those where the
Government had financed renewable power systems). The Government of Mongolia
provided funding and oversaw the rehabilitation of the mini-grids in 15 other soum
centers initially included in the scope of REAP, and connected these soums the
centralized power grid.

By October 2012, the performance of the 15 renewable energy systems constructed
during REAP was mostly good. Technical problems continue to be experienced in some
soums, including Mandakh and Altai, where consumers have reported power outages and
restrictions. Ownership of the systems—along with responsibility for operating,
maintaining, and repairing the systems—has been assumed by the aimag power utility
companies.

Despite these technical problems, according to residents, the supply of electricity has
indeed improved, which has facilitated noticeable changes in the life of the soums.
Previously, when electricity was provided for only a few hours a night in the off-grid
soum centers, very few households owned any electrical appliances beyond a TV and
incandescent bulbs for lighting. Since REAP, appliance ownership in the soums has
increased considerably. Many households have acquired refrigerators or freezers and are
able to store fresh meat during the springs and summers. With the daytime supply of
electricity, residents have been able to start new businesses, conditions in the school
dormitories have improved, computers have been introduced into the classroom, clinics
are able to use more modern medical equipment, and banking may be done in real-time.




                                           50
       C. Institutional Capacity Building

REAP increased the capacity of the Energy Authority and Ministry of Energy (formerly
the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, and Ministry of Mineral Resources and Energy) to make
and implement renewable energy policies. Under the program, renewable energy
specialists in the National Renewable Energy Center (NREC), Energy Authority and
Ministry of Energy took part in trainings, attended conferences, and gained vital on-the-
ground experience with renewable energy systems. Several specialists in NREC who
initially received trained under the program have since transferred to the Energy
Authority, Mongolia’s agency for regulating and implementing policies in the energy
sector, bringing with them valuable know-how. They worked closely with the REAP
project implementing unit (PIU) during the process of installing the four solar-diesel
hybrid systems that were funded by REAP (Altai, Bayantooroi bag in Tsogt soum,
Dorvoljin, and Urgamal). The REAP-funded systems were overseen closely by the World
Bank and provided the NREC and Energy Authority specialists with “best-practice?
examples for off-grid renewable energy investments. NREC and the Energy Authority
have continued to provide technical support to the aimag utility companies that manage
the renewable energy systems installed during REAP. The core of technical experts in
NREC and the Energy Authority were able to transfer additional solar generating
capacity to some soums by reallocating units from other soums that were connected to the
centralized grid.

Beyond NREC and the Energy Authority, the annual Renewable Energy Forums in
Mongolia organized under REAP, helped strengthen broader-based support for renewable
energy development of Mongolia. The forums were widely attended by representatives of
the Mongolian Government, renewable energy companies, universities, and the
international donor community.

Additional capacity-building activities were provided to SHS retailers and distributors,
the operators of the 15 off-grid renewable energy systems in the soum centers, and the
staff in the aimag utility. SHS retailers and distributors who participated in trainings and
conferences have formed new connections with other renewable energy companies both
in Mongolia and abroad. For example, while attending a conference in Beijing, one of the
SHS retailers, Monmar Co., Ltd., a joint venture by the Government of Mongolia and the
British company Marlec Ltd., met an international supplier of solar PV technologies.
Starting from this initial contact, Monmar formed a lasting relationship with the supplier,
and they continue to do business together. The operators of the off-grid renewable energy
systems, trainings provided under REAP are now able to perform very basic maintenance
on the systems; however, they are not able to perform more complicated repairs, and they
continue to rely on the aimag utilities and NREC. Thus, ongoing efforts are needed to
build day-to-day capacity for implement renewable energy projects at the local level in
rural areas.




                                            51
III. Project Implementation

       A. Preparation

The World Bank team had adequate experience and knowledge for the preparation of the
project. The REAP Steering Committee collaborated closely with the Government and
the World Bank in the design and preparation of the project.

In hindsight, certain aspects of the project design advocated by the World Bank team
during the preparation stage were not entirely realistic. Early on, the World Bank argued
strenuously that the SHS units should be supplied primarily by private companies. The
Government, on the other hand, was of the opinion that the level of private supply would
be inadequate, and favored the use of public procurement to distribute the SHS units.
When the project was eventually approved by the World Bank’s Board of Directors and
the Government, it set out a two-phased approach. Bulk procurement would be used to
supply the SHS units in the first few years, but eventually be phased out as private
dealers established a large enough customer base to place orders directly with suppliers.
As experience would show, the network of private retailers did not form quickly enough
or at a scale large enough to entirely supplant procurement and distribution via public
administration channels.

       B. Timing and timeliness

While the project achieved its objectives, the implementation of REAP during the first
years was not able to keep pace with the timetable set for rural electrification in the
Government’s action plans. This was due in part to policy changes introduced after the
start of the project. In 2007, the Government adopted new targets to provide SHS units to
100,000 herder households and constructed renewable power systems in 18 off-grid soum
centers by 2009. Coordination between the Government and REAP was relatively weak
in the beginning. Because REAP was not adequately integrated into the Government’s
new plans for rural electrification, the start of project activities in the soum centers was
delayed until agreement could be reached on restructuring the project to focus REAP
investments on a smaller number of soums.

Although REAP enabled the Government of Mongolia to achieve its target of electrifying
100,000 herder households, the distribution of the SHS units by sales and service centers
(SSCs) and private dealers certified under REAP was not scaled up as quickly as
originally planned. By September 2009, SSCs and private dealers had only sold about
300 SHS units—in addition to the 40,400 SHS units bulk-procured, sold, and installed
through the network of local administrators in 2007 and 2008—and the Government
expressed its concerned to the World Bank that REAP would not meet its original target
of distributing 50,000 SHS units by the end of 2011. In order to speed up the
implementation of REAP, under the mid-term restructuring of the project finalized in
August 2009, the Government and the World Bank agreed to reallocate project funds
toward a second bulk procurement of 20,000 SHS units. After the mid-term restructuring
of the project, progress was much quicker, and REAP was able to achieve its targets.



                                            52
Thus, the Government and the World Bank were able to remove early obstacles to the
implementation of the project.

The project also encountered some unexpected delays, which were either partially or
wholly beyond the control of the Government and the World Bank. During the years of
the project, Mongolia experienced some of its longest and coldest winters in recent
history, which shortened the construction season and delayed work by contractors on
some of the soum center systems. Also, after bids were evaluated for the first lot of the
second bulk procurement of SHS units in 2009, one of the bidders filed a complaint in
Mongolian court to challenge the decision to award the contract to Wuxi Suntech Power
Co., Ltd. The court eventually overturned the complaint; however, the contract with
Wuxi Suntech Power was suspended for several months during the proceedings.

The World Bank generally responded to requests by the PIU and the Government in a
timely and effective manner, though receiving “no-objections? by the World Bank
sometimes required more time than the Government expected. The main reason for this is
that the Bank would request the PIU or the Government to provide more materials or
clarification to fulfill World Bank requirements. Thankfully, no major delays occurred as
a result of this. Also, the task team leaders were usually quick in responding when action
was urgently required. For example, during the second bulk procurement of SHS units,
the task team leader sent a procurement specialist from Beijing to Ulaanbaatar in order to
assure that all the requirements for tendering were met and the Bank’s no-objection could
be expedited. This helped speed up the process and ensured that the SHSs were procured
quickly enough to avoid further delays in scaling-up the SHS distribution.

       C. Aspects of the project that should have received more focus

Battery recycling. A feasibility study for a battery recycling program was carried out for
REAP; however measures to ensure proper disposal of used batteries by herder
households with SHS units should have been introduced earlier in the program. It is
imperative that a battery buy-back program be put in place soon. Some herder households
are purchasing low-quality replacement batteries that must be changed every couple of
years. Each of these batteries contains toxic materials that may be released into the
environment.

Demonstration of other renewable energy technologies. The World Bank could have
seized on REAP as an opportunity to demonstrate other renewable power generation
technologies besides solar PV. All of the systems financed and installed by the World
Bank were PV-diesel hybrid systems. The Energy Authority and Ministry of Energy
already recognized the advantages of PV in the Mongolian countryside; however, the
Government experienced difficulties with wind power systems it financed during the first
years of the project. Consequently, interest in the use of wind power for small-scale off-
grid systems in the soums and bags has declined. The World Bank could have leveraged
its technical expertise and experience to install a high-quality wind-diesel or wind-solar-
diesel hybrid systems, which would have provided a best-practice example for the Energy




                                            53
Authority and shed light on why difficulties were experienced during the installation of
the first systems.

Integration with on-grid renewable energy. While the focus of the project was on off-grid
renewable energy, the GoM also needs more support in managing larger on-grid
renewable energy systems in the aimags. The capacity-building component of the project
could have better addressed this need.

       D. Interaction of project stakeholders (World Bank, PIU, and Government
          of Mongolia)

REAP was a well-implemented project. The quarterly meetings of the REAP Steering
Committee allowed for an adequate level of interaction between the Government and the
World Bank at the project level. NREC, the Energy Authority, and the PIU worked
closely together on a day-to-day basis throughout the project. (The PIU was housed in
the same building as NREC.) This improved coordination in solving technical problems
that arose and increased the spillover of knowledge and expertise to Mongolia’s
renewable energy planners, regulators, and implementers. At the larger policy level,
coordination between the Government and the World Bank was weak during the initial
implementation phase of the project, when the Government’s action plans and the REAP
timetable were poorly synched, but improved greatly over time.

       E. Post-project transition

Building the capacity of NREC and the Energy Authority was critical in preparing for the
post-project transition period. NREC and the PIU will need to work closely with the
soum centers and aimag utilities to solve technical problems that arise with the off-grid
wind and solar stations. The capacity of the aimag utilities to maintain and repair the
soum center renewable energy systems is still weak, and soum center consumer
associations are inactive. During the transition period, NREC will inspect all of the
renewable power systems installed in the soum centers during REAP to determine the
cause of the remaining technical problems in the systems that are performing sub-
optimally and to identify needed repairs. Additional measures will be needed to improve
the management of the systems to ensure a reliable level of service provision to soum
center consumers.

       F. Overall assessment of World Bank performance

The overall performance of the World Bank in preparing and implementing the project is
rated as satisfactory. While initial progress made on the project was slow, the World
Bank responded to Government requests for changes to the project, and ensured that the
central objective of the project was effectively attained.




                                           54
       G. Overall assessment of Government performance

The overall performance of the Government of Mongolia in preparing and implementing
the project is rated as satisfactory. The Government placed great priority on achieving
the objectives of the project in expanding access to rural populations through the
promotion of renewable energy, and demonstrated a high level of project ownership,
despite weak coordination in the early stages of project implementation. The PIU was
able to effectively negotiate between the project stakeholders in implementing the project,
including the World Bank and Government, as well as local administrators, the aimag
utility companies, soum mini grid operators, and SCCs and private dealers.

IV. Lessons Learned

       A. Development of the market for household renewable energy technologies

The most important lesson learned from the project for the development of the market for
household renewable energy technologies in rural Mongolia was in the design and use of
economic incentives. Prior to REAP, SHS units for the 100,000 Solar Ger Program were
secured through international donations and provided to herder households solely through
administrative channels. The design of the subsidy program under REAP created a cost
recovery mechanism to buy down the costs of additional SHS units and expand sales,
leveraging the success of the project.

While ger household demand for renewable power solutions has grown, and people are
interested in acquiring larger systems or expanding the capacity of their existing systems;
however, it is unlikely that sales of SHS units by SSCs and private dealers during the last
years of REAP will continue once the subsidy program expires. SSCs and private dealers
who were interviewed at the close of the project expect sales of SHS units to decline
because they will not be able to supply SHS units at the same prices offered during REAP.
Several reported that if they do continue to sell SHSs, they will choose to sell units that
are cheaper and lower-quality than the ones distributed during REAP. This may undercut
the confidence of ger household consumers in the reliability of SHSs.

       B. Development of off-grid renewable energy systems in Mongolia

There is significant demand in rural areas for improved electricity services. Consumer
demand for electricity in the soum centers in which renewable power were installed
increased much more quickly than expected. According to the Altai-Uliastai Energy
System Company, the REAP-funded systems in Gobi-Altai and Zarkhan aimags have
already reached or exceeded capacity. In deploying small-scale renewable energy
solutions in off-grid settlements, adequate allowance should be made for future capacity
expansions to be made to the systems as needed.

The maintenance of the renewable energy systems installed in the soum centers should
continue to be strengthened to ensure an optimum level of service provision. The aimag
utilities have shown relatively little enthusiasm for their assumed role in operating,



                                           55
maintaining, and repairing the off-grid renewable energy systems. There are several
factors contributing to the utilities’ reluctance. First, the utilities are mainly responsible
centralized grid systems, which serve a larger number of consumers and are given higher
priority in allocating limited company resources. Second, compared with centralized grid
systems, the utilities have relatively little experience with managing off-grid renewable
energy systems. Third, when the renewable energy systems have required repairs, the
utility companies have had difficulties locating spare parts in Mongolia, leading to slower
response time and dissatisfaction on the part of consumers. Making repairs is costly in
terms of travel time and use of resources. Fourth, the small-scale renewable power
systems in the soum centers are not seen as being profitable, given maintenance and
repair, the continued cost of supplying diesel fuel for the soum generators during periods
of intermittent wind or sun, and the inability of the utilities to adjust tariffs without prior
approval by the aimag regulator.

With limited technical expertise and financial reporting knowledge in the soums, the
aimag utility companies remain the best option for managing the off-grid renewable
energy systems; however, a higher level of meaningful interaction and consultation
between the utility companies and soum consumers is needed. The soum electricity users’
associations that were formed during the project are largely inactive now. Reconstituting
the associations could provide a channel for improving communication between the
power supplier and consumers in the soums, especially in clarifying how tariffs are set
and providing advanced notice for power restrictions enforced during periods of
intermittent wind and sun.

Finally, the high bar set by open tender requirements for the PV systems financed by
REAP effectively created a hurdle for Mongolian companies to participate. Greater
participation by Mongolian companies in renewable energy should be encouraged.
Developing a local industry for off-grid renewable energy in Mongolia will improve the
operations and maintenance of renewable power systems in rural areas, solidifying supply
chains for parts needed to maintain systems and reducing response time.

V. Follow-up Activities

A range of possible follow-up activities exist that could be supported by the World Bank
but are not currently being pursued.

First, there is a possibility for the World Bank to support the larger-scale development of
renewable energy and to connect renewable energy to existing on-grid power generation
sources. For example, in Gobi-Altai, the Government has financed the construction of the
12 MW Tashir hydropower plant. If the hydropower plant could be combined with local
solar power generation, this would provide a supply of electricity during the day and
allow for the hydropower plant to store more water to run turbines during peak-load
periods in the evenings. Developing larger-scale renewable hybrid systems for off-grid
power generation in the aimags and soums represents an area for greater involvement by
the World Bank, where the Bank’s expertise and experience with developing renewable
energy resources in other countries would be welcome.



                                              56
Second, there is a need for expanding access to household food refrigeration through the
use of renewable energy. Now that herders have become familiar with the use of solar PV
technologies, many are hoping to upgrade to larger systems so that they can power
freezers. There are good-quality solar freezers on the market, which have been field
tested by Mongolian companies, but the freezers are still far too expensive for most
households and cannot be powered by the 50wp and 80wp solar PV panels distributed
under REAP. There would be a sizeable market for refrigeration technologies; however,
subsidies or other forms of financial support are badly needed to develop this market.

Third, there is the issue of heating and access to hot water in the soums. Small individual
boilers currently used in the soums for heating and hot water are inefficient and create
pollution. The World Bank could support the use of renewable energy technologies such
as solar water heaters, ground source heat pumps, or geothermal energy by schools,
kindergartens, and other institutional users in the soums and aimag centers.




Herders assembling a ger along with SHS (Photo credit: Stephen Bachenheimer/World Bank)




                                            57
Solar power providing lighting inside a ger (Photo credit: Stephen Bachenheimer/World Bank)




                                              58
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None.




                                    59
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


1. Project Appraisal Document dated November 27, 2006

2. Project legal documents including the IDA Financing Agreement, GEF Grant
   Agreement, and Netherlands Grant Agreement (2007)

3. Restructuring proposals and resulting Restructuring Papers, letters to the Government
   of Mongolia and amendments to the legal documents (2009 and 2011)

4. Project file containing records of project preparation and appraisal (prior and up to
   2007)

5. Supervision aide-memoires, management letters, and Implementation Status and
   Results reports (2007-2012)

6. ASTAE Report: Evaluation of Social Impacts of Mongolia Renewable Energy and
   Rural Electricity Access Project (2012-2013)

7. Country Assistance Strategy for Mongolia for the Period FY 2005-2008

8. Country Partnership Strategy for Mongolia for the Period FY 2013-2017

9. Various published papers:

          A Study on the Evaluation of Solar Home Systems Viewed by Users

          Long-term Performance Analysis of PV Modules in the Gobi Desert of
           Mongolia

          Capturing the Sun in the Land of the Blue Sky




                                          60
MAP




      61
