Document of           FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3015-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
RAILWAY PROJECT
April 6, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise he disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit =  Kenya Shilling (KSh)
KSh 1.0       =  US$0.132
US$1.0        =  KSh 7.5 1/
Kb 1.0         =  KSh 20.0
Kb 1.0        =  US$2.69
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)               5  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2  =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )    0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 metric ton (tonne)         2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB   -  African Development Bank
EAC    -  East African Community
EAHC   -  East African Harbours Corporation
EARC   -  East African Railways Corporations
EARH   -  East African Railways and Harbours Administration
KfW    -  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
KR     -  Kenya Railways Corporation
MOW    -  Ministry of Works
MTC    -  Ministry of Transport and Communications
UR     -  Uganda Railways
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Kenya = July 1 - June 30
Kenya Railways        =  January 1 - December 31
1/   Rate prevailing prior to the February 1981 devaluation of 5.1%.  This
devaluation has not, however, been taken into account in the Appraisal
Report or in the project section (Part IV) of the President's Report for
the following reasons. One, the Loan is not affected since the Bank is
only financing foreign exchange costs; and two, the impact on KR's
financial situation overall is marginal.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
RAILWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:          Republic of Kenya
BENEFICIARY:      Kenya Railways Corporation (KR)
AMOUNT:            US$58.0 million equivalent
TERMS:             20 years including 5 years of grace with interest at
9.6% per annum.
RELENDING:         The proceeds of the loan will be onlent by the Republic
of Kenya to KR at not less than 10% per annum for 20 years
including 5 years' grace. The foreign exchange risk would
be fully assumed by KR.
CO-LENDERS:       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) and the African
Development Bank (AfDB).
PROJECT            The project covers the last three years of KR's 1979-83
DESCRIPTION:      investment plan and includes essential track rehabilitation,
equipment, and operational improvements to increase KR's
effective capacity to meet traffic demands. The Project
finances (a) relaying of 103 km of main line track and
improving 73 km of branch line track; ballasting and
formation works; improving yards, crossing stations, and
buildings; a transshipment depot at Malaba; and provision
of machinery, vehicles and spare parts for track mainte-
nance; (b) improving the telecommunications system; (c)
purchasing hopper wagons and provision of spare parts
for locomotives and wagons; (d) improving maintenance
facilities; (e) improving marine services; (f) staff housing;
and (g) extension of the training school, overseas training,
studies to improve utilization of KR's facilities; and
technical assistance at the middle management level. The
main sources of risk affecting the Project include lower
than projected growth rates for both domestic and external
traffic, and slower improvements in KR's operational
efficiency.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ESTIMATED COST:                                     Local   Foreign   Total
----- US$ Million -----
Track                                    18.3      32.7     51.0
Telecommunications                        4.0      10.0     14.0
Rolling Stock                             0.8       3.4      4.2
Spare Parts                               1.6      16.3     17.9
Workshops and Equipment                   2.0       9.5     11.5
Water Transport                           2.4       1.1      3.5
Staff Quarters                            5.9       0.9      6.8
Training and Technical Assistance         2.7       3.4      6.1
Physical Contingencies                    0.9      0.4       1.3
Price Contingencies                       6.9      10.6     17.5
Taxes                                     8.3        -       8.3
Total Project Cost                       53.8      88.3    142.1
Project Cost Net of
Taxes & Duties                         45.5     88.3    133.8
FINANCING PLAN:                                    Local   Foreign   Total
---- US$ Million…
World Bank                         -      58.0      58.0
KfW                               2.8     13.9      16.7
AfDB                               -       7.5       7.5 1/
KR                               42.7      -        42.7
Government of Kenya               -        8.9       8.9
Net Project Cost                45.5      88.3    133.8
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:    FY                 1982    1983    1984    1985
Annual             5.5    24.5    22.0      6.0
Cumulative         5.5    30.0    52.0    58.0
RATE OF RETURN :  19%
APPRAISAL
REPORT          : Report No. 2980-KE, March 19, 1981
MAP             : IBRD 14712
1/   The total AfDB contribution is US$13.0 million equivalent, but only
US$7.5 million will be used during the project period (1981-83). The
balance of the loan would be utilized outside the project period for
the financing of passenger coaches.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA FOR A
RAILWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Kenya for US$58.0 million equivalent. The proposed
loan is to help finance part of the foreign exchange costs of the last three
years of the investment plan (1979-1983) of the Kenya Railways Corporation
(KR). The proceeds of the loan would be onlent to KR for 20 years, including
5 years of grace, with interest at not less than 10% per annum. The Federal
Republic of Germany, through Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), will provide
the equivalent of US$16.7 million to help finance parts of the investment
plan. The on-lending terms of these funds have not yet been determined. The
African Development Bank (AfDB) will provide the equivalent of US$7.5 million
for the proposed investment plan. The AfDB loan would be onlent for 20 years,
with 5 years grace, and with interest at 10% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Kenya Economic Memorandum" (Report No. 2441-KE)
dated March 1979 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A summary
of social and economic data is in Annex I. A Basic Economic Report on Kenya
is now under preparation.
Long-Term Economic Growth and Prospects
3.        Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  During the entire
period since then the country has experienced remarkable continuity in both
political leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been to
promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment, encouragement
of both smallholder and large-scale farming, and promotion of accelerated
industrialization, by providing incentives for private, including foreign,
investment in modern industry. The Kenyan development model can be charac-
terized as "mixed", in the sense that it incorporates a diversity of organi-
zational forms and incentives and combines private enterprise with a signifi-
cant amount of government participation and guidance. It is clear that the
country has made a smooth transition to new leadership following President
Kenyatta's death in 1978, and that the future will see continuity in both the
political and economic spheres. Recent peaceful elections provide additional
confirmation of this.
4.        Kenya's first decade as an independent nation was one of remarkable
growth and structural transformation. Total GDP grew at an annual average
rate of 6.6% during 1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing grew rapidly,
1/   This section is substantially the same as the President's Report on
the Fifth Education Project (Report No. P-2959-KE of February 18, 1981).



- 2 -
at 4.7% and 8.4% per annum respectively. The expansion of agriculture was
stimulated by redistribution of large estates to smallholders, rapid diffusion
of hybrid maize, and growth of smallholder output. Growth of manufacturing
was very largely made possible by the expansion of domestic demand due to
rising agricultural incomes, while investment for domestic production was
being encouraged by high levels of protection, a liberal attitude towards
foreign investment, and active government promotion of and participation in
manufacturing ventures.
5.        Despite this rapid growth, Kenya remains a poor country, still
heavily rural and dependent upon agriculture. Average GNP per capita in
1979 was US$380. Agriculture accounted for about a third of GDP in 1975-79
and 56% of export earnings in 1979. Since the growth of the industrial sector
has been largely confined to the aajor urban areas, a6riculture remains the
principal source of income in the rural areas where over 80% of the population
live and work. But despite the substantial economic progress the country has
made, Kenya still has significant problems of poverty and under-employment.
For example, it is estimated that about one-fourth of the population have
incomes which place them below the absolute poverty line.
6.        The most fundamental problems Kenya faces are posed by the rapid
growth rate of population, currently estimated by the Government to be 3.9%
per year, which is among the highest in the world. This is, ironically,
the result of Kenya's past success in raising living standards, which has
resulted in a steady decline in mortality and has probably resulted in an
increase in the country-s already high fertility rate.
7.        With rapidly increasing population, pressure is beginning to  2
mount on K2nya's limited arable land.  Of Kenya's total area, 583,000 km
520,500 km is categorized as potentially agricultural; however, only 13%
can be regarded as high potential land, with 6% medium and 81% low potential.
Thus, less than 20% of the land area has good arable potential, and much of
it is now densely settled. Because of traditional ethnic landholding patterns
some higher potential land is not fully utilized. Mounting pressure on land
is resulting in increasing subdivision and landlessness in high potential
areas, and in settlement in semi-arid areas ill-suited to farming. The
latter also poses a serious threat of environmental degradation.
8.        Rapid population growth has created other problems as well.  First,
there is the strong likelihood that, unless growth slows dramatically or ways
are found to increase the rate at which income earning opportunities in
agriculture expand, excess rural labor will be pushed into urban areas. Even
if the non-agricultural formal wage sector (which employs less than 15% of the
total labor force) grows very rapidly, it will probably be unable to absorb
all the new urban labor force entrants, resulting in rising urban unemploy-
ment and underemployment. Second, considerable budgetary pressure has already
been created by the growing demand for social services, especially education.
Finally, efforts to improve the distribution of income will be impeded by the
relative lack of access to land and education for the children of the poorest
section of the population.



- 3 -
9.        A second major problem area has developed in the manufacturing
sector. The rapid growth of industry in the past has been largely based upon
investments in simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies.
To a lesser extent manufacturing production has also catered to the export
market in neighboring countries, particularly in the protected East African
Community (EAC) market. However the scope for further industrialization along
these lines is limited as most of the easy import-substitution possibilities
have been exhausted and the EAC preference for Kenyan goods has been abolished.
The past pattern of industrialization has left the sector increasingly dependent
on imported raw materials, components and spare parts and therefore vulnerable
in case of a shortage of foreign exchange. To maintain growth it will be
necessary to reorient industry toward increased use of domestic inputs and
increased production for export.
10.       A third problem is the slow growth and lack of diversification
of exports which have consistently grown at a slower pace than GDP. From
1964-74 the volume of exports expanded at an average annual rate of 4.6%.
However, over the past five years export volume has grown slowly. In 1979,
export volume was 4% below the 1975 level. To some extent this is a
reflection of production problems in agriculture and industry, but it is also
an indicator of the need to direct more resources toward export-oriented
activities.
Recent Economic Performance
11.       Kenya's growth performance since 1974 has been especially vulnerable
to swings in the country's international terms of trade. Thus, the growth
rate fell sharply during 1974-75 when the dramatic increase in petroleum and
other import prices required restrictive economic policies, accelerated
rapidly in 1976-77 as the impact of the "coffee boom" following frost damage
in Brazil worked its way through the economy, and began to decelerate in 1978
with the decline in coffee prices toward more normal levels.
12.       Fiscal and monetary policies were, in combination with incomes
policy, reasonably effective in restraining the growth of aggregate demand
during 1974-76. However, throughout this period there were increasing pres-
sures on the Government to expand its expenditures, emanating primarily from
increased school enrollments and abolition of fees for the first four years of
education; concerns about national security; and the need to replace EAC
Corporations with national entities. With the "coffee boom" of 1976-77, the
Government decided to greatly expand budgetary outlays, both recurrent and
capital. Thus, the budget deficit rose from less than 5% of GDP in 1976/77
to about 7% in 1978/79. At the same time, the monetary authorities did
little to limit the effect of rising foreign exchange reserves on commercial
bank liquidity and expansion of credit to the private sector. As a result,
domestic credit grew by an average of nearly 30% in 1977 and 1978. The
combination of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policy and the high
agricultural incomes produced a resurgence of domestic demand and a rapid
rise in import levels. By the latter half of 1977, coffee prices had passed
their peak and begun to decline.



- 4 -
13.       During 1978-79, Kenya again experienced strong external shocks as a
result of the latest round of petroleum price increases and declining coffee
prices. The balance-of-payments and incomes effects of this were compounded
by poor weather affecting coffee and maize production. As a result, GDP
growth slowed to 3.1% in 1979 and an estimated 2.8% in 1980. The trade
deficit rose sharply in 1978, and foreign exchange reserves were rapidly
depleted. The balance on current account deteriorated from an exceptional
surplus of US$58 million in 1977 to a deficit of over US$650 million in 1978,
while reserves fell by US$200 million. In order to prevent further depletion
of the country's foreign exchange reserves, the Government introduced a
program of import restrictions in late 1978, effecting a sharp decline in
imports and reductions in Kenya's revenue gap and current account deficit in
1979. This, together with increased external borrowing, resulted in a
recuperation of about US$179 million in gross reserves in the same year. The
improvement in the balance of payments proved to be short-lived. The increase
in petroleum prices combined with the need for additional food imports resulted
in a 25% rise in the value of imports. While exports rose by 16%, this was
not sufficient to prevent a rise in the current account deficit to over US$700
million and, despite increased external borrowing, a decline of US$167 million
in foreign exchange reserves.
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, 1979-83
14.       The emphasis of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan is on restor-
ing growth to the levels that prevailed before 1974, while alleviating poverty
through creation of income earning opportunities and provision of social
services to meet the basic needs of the population. The Plan correctly
identifies the key problems that Kenya faces and sets forth a development
strategy appropriate to their solution. It is sharply focussed, explicit in
its recommendations, and shows a sound awareness of constraints on development.
15.       The Fourth Plan recognizes the strong link between agricultural
growth and poverty alleviation. One of the most significant changes pro-
posed in the Plan is increased access to land through legalizing subdivision
of high-potential large farms. In addition, the Plan proposes that a National
Land Commission be established to review ways of encouraging land use inten-
sification and labor absorption. The Plan also proposes that marketing and
pricing policies pay closer attention to the structure of domestic and inter-
national prices and the marketing system be made more competitive and effi-
cient to improve prices to farmers. Research and extension services are to
be more closely linked to the needs of small farmers. Finally, in addition
to projects to increase larger scale commercial and smallholder production,
a series of integrated rural development projects in semi-arid areas is pro-
posed to redress the neglect of these areas.
16.       The major thrust of industrial policy will be to effect a transition
from import substitution to a strategy emphasizing industrial efficiency and
export diversification. This will involve further rationalization of tariffs
and elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports over a five-year
period. This policy will be very difficult to carry forward over the next
few years when, because of balance of payments problems, there is likely to
be considerable pressure to increase, rather than reduce, protection.



-5-
17.       The Plan proposes no fundamental change in Kenya's traditionally
liberal policy on foreign investment with the important exception that re-
view and approval of projects for which special concessions or Government
participation are being sought will rely more on economic criteria and will be
centralized in the Ministry of Finance. On the whole, the Plan calls for a
more limited role for Government in terms of direct participation and inter-
vention. However, efforts will be made to restructure industrial investment
incentives to encourage employment and decentralization. Finally, while there
are doubts in Kenya about how dynamic a role the informal sector can play in
the development process, the Plan is more specific in its recommendations for
aid to small firms (provision of financial and technical support and ending
of unnecessary licensing and other restrictions) than the previous Plan.
18.       The Fourth Plan acknowledges the heavy burden rapid population
growth places on the economy and places high priority on the promotion of
family planning. The target for new acceptors during 1979-83 is 700,000,
compared to 280,000 recruited during 1974-78. In order to achieve this, the
number of field educators will be more than tripled (from 430 to over 1,300)
and the number of fixed delivery points doubled (from 315 to 630). Although
Kenya is doing more to promote family planning than most other African coun-
tries, the rate of population growth is projected to remain extremely high
(3.9%) because of strong cultural and traditional factors and even greater
efforts will be required to bring about a significant decline in fertility.
19.       Due to Kenya-s wors'ening financial and budgetary constraints, which
had not been anticipated when the Plan was written, implementation of the
Fourth Plan has been very slow so far. As a result, the Government had to
reassess the Plan targets and has already introduced a revised shortrun
economic program incorporated in Sessional Paper (SP) No. 4 of 1980, while
maintaining the overall development strategy set out in the original Plan
document. The SP identifies and deals with Kenya's short- and medium-term
problems in a frank and consistent manner. If offers, among other things, a
revised set of policy initiatives designed to overcome the country s urgent
financial problems resulting from continuing budgetary and balance of payments
pressures.
Economic Prospects
20.       The outlook for 1981 does not suggest a major improvement in the
balance of payments or economic growth. In fact, the first few years of the
decade are likely to be difficult ones for the Kenyan economy because of poor
terms of trade prospects and heavy debt service obligations. However, growth
appears better for the mid-1980s as the terms of trade are expected to
stabilize and growth of external debt decelerates. It would then be possible
to follow gradually more expansionary policies. A growth rate approaching 6%
per annum should be attainable during the second half of the decade.
21.       The budgetary situation will also be tight over the next few years.
In early 1979 the President announced several measures which are not included
in the Plan but which will have significant direct budgetary consequences.
These measures include: (a) provision of free milk for students in the first



- 6 -
seven years of school; (b) elimination of school fees for the fifth and sixth
years of elementary school; (c) initiation of a national literacy
campaign; and (d) a 10% increase in employment in the public and private
sectors in exchange for agreed wage restraint. Finally, the increased militarv
expenditures will also increase budgetary pressure. This pressure, besides
having a negative impact on the availability of counterpart funds for on-going
and new projects, also implies more restraint on new public commitments.
22.       In order to deal with the balance of payments problem, the Govern-
ment has adopted a set of policy measures in its FY1980/81 budget aimed at
enhancing both the country's export and debt management capabilities. These
measures have been agreed with the Bank Group, within the framework of the
first Structural Adjustment Credit, and include: (a) substitution of import
duties for non-tariff barriers, (b) elimination of all Letters of No Objec-
tion privileges, (c) increase of the export compensation rate from 10% to 20%
of f.o.b. value of exports, (d) simplifying the procedures for export compen-
sation payments, and (e) creation of a Debt Management Office with responsi-
bility for developing a reasonable annual borrowing program in order to help
control external borrowing more efficiently. The Government has also reached
agreement with the International Monetary Fund on a new stand-by arrangement
for US$316 million over a period of two years starting October 15, 1980. The
agreement involves the upper credit tranches, through the fourth, including
the use of the Special Fund Facility. Moreover, in February 1981 the Govern-
ment devalued the Kenya Shilling vis-a-vis the SDR by 5.1%, and increased
domestic petroleum prices by an average of 20%.
External Debt
23.       The recent expansion of government and government-guaranteed commer-
cial borrowing has adversely affected the debt service ratio, which has risen
from 5% in 1977 to an estimated 12% in 1980. This includes service payments
on a notional 50% share of the debt of EAC corporations. The debt service
ratio is expected to increase to about 16% in the mid-1980s, and decline
gradually thereafter. Debt service payments to the Bank are 14.9% of total
debt service payments; the IDA share is 0.9%. The Bank's share of total debt
service payments is expected to rise to about 22% by 1985, while IDA's share
would rise to 1%. The Bank is presently holding 22% of Kenya's total outstand-
ing external debt, and IDA 9%. The Bank's share is expected to rise to 26%
and IDA's to 15% by 1985. The expected rise in Bank exposure is due largely
to anticipated repayments of loans with short maturities. An additional
factor, however, is the gradual switch by other donors from loans to straight
grants (including conversion of some loans to grants). Because of the long-
term balance of payments constraint, Kenya's development program will require
substantial financing in excess of public savings and available non-Bank Group
external capital combined and we therefore expect to continue our practice of
financing a substantial portion of total project costs, including some local
costs when necessary.
East African Community (EAC)
24.       The developments affecting the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312)



- 7 -
and more recent developments were reported in a statement to the Executive
Directors during their meeting on May 6, 1980. Dr. Victor Umbricht, the
independent mediator appointed by the Partner States in January 1978, has
visited East Africa on numerous occasions and prepared reports on the results
of his fact-finding work on the EAC Corporations and the General Fund Services,
and the methodology adopted in appraising the assets and liabilities. In
March 1980, the mediator presented to the three Governments his proposals for
the allocation of these assets and liabilities, for their consideration. The
mediator has also prepared a supplement report in response to the Governments
comments on his proposal and the next step would be the start of negotiations
among the three Governments based on the mediator's proposals. According to
his terms of reference, the mediator would be available to assist in arriving
at a definitive settlement. The mediator's report and recommendations on the
future structure of the East African Development Bank (EADB) have been accepted
by the Partner States. The revised EADB Charter along with the Treaty to
enact the new Charter have been ratified by the three Governments.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
25.       To date, Kenya has received 35 Bank loans, including three on
Third Window terms, and 32 IDA credits amounting to US$1,183.1 million, which
support 59 operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries
of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the
development of common services (railways, ports, telecommunications, and
finance for industry), operated regionally for the three partner states of
the East African Community. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank
loans and IDA credits to Kenya and to the East African Community corporations,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of January 31, 1981.
26.       The Bank has assisted the Government in its efforts to restructure
the economy through increased lending in directly productive sectors, particu-
larly agriculture, as well as through a Structural Adjustment Credit and a
complementary Technical Assistance Credit for export promotion. While recent
sector and economic work has also focused on the adjustments which Kenya must
make to deal with the changed international economy, the upcoming Basic
Economic Report is expected to comprehensively address the issues of income
distribution, population growth, and appropriate long-term agricultural and
industrial policies.
27.       Significant progress has been made in giving the Bank-s lending
program a rural focus, and in concentrating on employment and income dis-
tribution objectives. In addition to the two Credits mentioned above,
projects approved since January 1980 comprise a Third Power Project, a Fourth
Line of Credit to the Industrial Development Bank, and a Fisheries Project.
In addition, a fourth agricultural credit project,
a cotton processing and marketing project, a fifth education project, an urban
transport project, a second population project and a third forestry project
have been appraised, while a second structural adjustment credit, a technical
assistance credit for petroleum exploration promotion, and an urban (small
cities) project are under preparation.



-8-
28.       Overall project implementation performance is satisfactory.  However,
progress on some projects has been slow due to administrative difficulties
and budgetary stringency, as well as project-specific problems such as heavy
cost overruns in some instances. As a result, disbursements have lagged, a
situation which has been exacerbated by cumbersome reimbursement procedures.
To deal with this latter problem, the Ministry of Finance has established a
task force to make recommendations designed to speed up the reimbursement
process under all types of foreign aid.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
29.       IFC has committed a total of US$40.9 million for four companies in
Kenya: Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism
Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). In addi-
tion, a credit line for medium- and small-scale enterprises has been extended
to the Commercial Bank of Kenya.l/ As of January 31, 1981, IFC held for its own
account US$30.5 million comprising US$21.2 million of loans and US$9.3 million
of equity. A summary of IFC Investments in Kenya is included in Annex II.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
General
30.       The heaviest concentration of transport facilities, comprising
road, rail and air services, is along the 1,000 km corridor from the coastal
port of Mombasa, to the Ugandan border, via Nairobi. This is a densely
populated area of major economic importance, containing over half of Kenya's
population. The corridor is also a major transport route for goods to and
from Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, Southern Sudan, and parts of Eastern Zaire.
Other areas of Kenya, particularly the east and north, are poorly serviced
by transport facilities, although these areas tend to be less developed
economically and/or less densely populated. Practically all of the 2,050 km
rail network, as well as a sizeable proportion of the 50,000 km road network,
is in the Mombasa-Ugandan border corridor; the only port of significance is
Mombasa, on the Indian Ocean. An oil pipeline runs the 452 km from Mombasa to
Nairobi, and the focus of aviation is on the Nairobi and, to a lesser extent,
Mombasa international airports.
31.       Details of the rail network are included in para. 45.  The total
classified road system comprises 50,600 km of roads. To meet the demands of
an expanding economy, road transport has increased rapidly. The number of
trucks, trailers, and buses on the road grew by 8.2% per annum from 1970-1977,
whereas the passenger car fleet grew at an average rate of 7.2% per annum
over the same period; average truck size has also increased. Vehicle density
in 1977 was 16.5 per thousand population.
32.       Mombasa, Kenya's principal port, handles most of the country½s
imports and exports as well as transit traffic. The port-s capacity is
estimated at about 3 million tons per year. A new Kenyan port organization
1/ US$ million 2.0



- 9 -
was established in 1977 to replace the East African Harbours Corporation, and
the port management is competent. Nairobi is one of the principal aviation
centers of Africa. Besides passenger traffic, air transport is also important
for Kenya's rapidly expanding export of perishable horticultural and farm
products which go principally to Europe. Besides Nairobi, Mombasa also has an
international airport, while scheduled domestic services are provided to four
other airports and several game parks. With the de facto breakup of the EAC
and East African Airways, Kenya Airways, a national airline was established
to provide domestic, regional, and international services.
33.       The Government-owned Kenya Pipeline Company operates a 452 km
pipeline to transport white oil products from Mombasa to Nairobi.
Construction was completed in late-1977, and the pipeline was in full
operation by mid-1978.
Transport Planning and Intermodal Coordination
34.       Until December 1979 transport planning was divided between the
Ministry of Works (MOW) and the Ministry of Power and Communications (MPC).
Coordination of planning came under the Ministry of Economic Planning and
Development. However, in December 1979, MOW and MPC were merged, so that all
transport planning and operations now fall under the Ministry of Transport
and Communications (MTC). MTC has inherited a good Planning Unit from the
previous MOW; the Unit will be expanded so as to improve transport planning
and the formulation of transport policy.
35.       The Fourth National Development Plan for 1979-83 includes nearly
KE 300 million for the transport sector (20% of total public investment) of
which KE 35 million has been allocated to railways. (These amounts are stated
in 1977 prices without contingencies and do not include recurring expenditures
studies, and technical assistance.)   The main objective for the transport
sector as outlined in the Plan is to improve competition between road and rail
transport so as to achieve a more efficient allocation of resources, making
the railways the principal means of long distance transport.
Transport Policy
36.       During the 1960s most long-distance freight was transported by rail,
mainly because commercial road transport was subject to considerable opera-
tional restrictions, primarily through licensing, which protected the differ-
ential tariffs of the railway. In the late sixties, road transport regulations
were relaxed and this, together with improved roads, led to a substantial rise
in road transport throughout the seventies. Furthermore, from 1974 to 1979
the railways faced severe operational and capacity problems caused by the
breakup of the East African Railways Corporation (EARC) and the formation of
Kenya Railways Corporation (KR), which increased the competitiveness of road
transport.  Given      KR's problems over the last five years it is difficult
to assess how much traffic is going by road because of consumer preference,
rather than because of the Railways' inability to carry more goods. In
addition, practically all of Rwanda, Burundi, and Eastern Zaire traffic, plus



- 10 -
a substantial amount of Uganda traffic (possibly more than twice as much as
goes by rail), goes by road because of the lack of transshipment facilities in
Uganda and the unreliable and limited service provided by Uganda Railways
(UR). This shift of traffic to the roads represents an added burden on
Kenya-s limited highway network.
37.       During the seventies Government took few active measures to divert
traffic back from the roads to the railways, partly because of the need to
first firmly establish the newly-formed KR. However, with the formation of
MTC and a separate Ministry of Energy, there is now a firm commitment on
the part of Government to conserve energy, one means of which is to divert
long-distance traffic from the roads to the railways. Measures under con-
sideration include restriction of licenses for road haulage routes, extend-
ing the oil pipeline westwards, increasing road user charges, and devising
ways of transporting all external freight traffic by rail through Kenya. With
respect to the latter, it will be necessary, at least for the short-term, to
build transshipment facilities at the Kenya-Uganda border. 1/   In addition
more traffic could be carried by UR, if cooperation between KR and UR were
improved; and the Bank has advised Government that efforts should be made
to reach a railway agreement between KR and UR.
38.       Under Loan 1684-KE of 1979 for a Highway Sector Project (paragraph
40 below), MTC has hired consultants to carry out a road user charge study
which will encompass a study of the means to achieve optimum allocation of
traffic and the most appropriate transport system for Kenya. The study, to be
completed in 1981, will consider transport demand, the capacity of the present
transport system, and real costs of transport, including handling time,
inventory, storage, and other costs. The consultants will recommend policies
and measures to achieve an optimal distribution of traffic. On completion of
the study, it may be necessary to undertake further work on particular aspects
of the transportation sector, such as specific commodity studies relating to
the railways; these studies would be carried out by the Planning Unit within
,fTC, in coordination with KR (para. 63 ). Considering the importance of
achieving an economically optimal distribution of traffic among different
modes for the future traffic and financial viability of KR, it has been agreed
that the recommendations of the study will be implemented by January 1, 1982
(Section 3.02(a) of the Draft Loan Agreement). In the meantime, under the
Kenya Highway Sector Loan approved in April 1979, KE1.5 million has been
allocated for vehicle inspection centers including weighbridges. These steps
are aimed at reducing the tonnage carried by road which will ultimately be
reflected in lower costs on goods carried to and from Uganda.
1/   KR has decided to construct such a transshipment depot with facilities
for containerized freight to allow rail transport from Mombasa to the
border. This would result in savings to Uganda. Additionally, the
section of the main line running to the Uganda border will be relaid with
new, heavier grade rail, and the replacement of the old and mixed weight
rail will help cope with the future expected increase in tonnage for
Uganda.



- 11 -
Past Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
39.       The Bank Group has been actively involved in Kenya's transport
sector since the country's independence in 1963. Loans and credits have been
made amounting to US$339 million for roads, an airport, an oil pipeline,
railways, and ports. The Bank has made three loans (one including a small
component for ports), totalling US$104.4 million for the development of the
railway under the EARC. Two of the loans are fully disbursed. The only
Project Completion Report available for the railway projects is for Loan
674-EA of 1979 (US$42.4 million). The political problems in the EAC plagued
the project from the outset. However, the actual performance of the railway
as measured by operational and financial standards was surprisingly good in
view of the constraints placed on management. In most instances, operating
efficiency increased during the years prior to the breakup of the EAC and, in
the initial years the financial results were better than anticipated at
appraisal. Another two loans, totalling US$61.5 million, plus a small compo-
nent of the joint railways and ports loan mentioned above, went toward the
development of Mombasa's port.
40.       The Bank financed the upgrading and expansion of Nairobi's Inter-
national Airport through a US$29.0 million loan, and has also provided a
loan for US$20.0 million for the construction of the oil pipeline from Mombasa
to Nairobi. Since 1960, the Bank Group has lent $214.2 million for 11 road
projects, including US$90.0 million for a Highway Sector Project (Ln. 1684-KE
of 1979), and major road components included in agricultural projects. Two of
the projects are still ongoing; one loan should be fully disbursed in 1981,
and the other in 1985.
Organization and Management of Kenya Railways
41.       Following the breakup of the EAC (para. 24), including the EARC,
Government established Kenya Railways in early 1977 and KR was formalized by
the enactment of the Kenya Railways Corporation Act in January 1978. KR
provides a network of rail and inland waterways transport services in Kenya
(paras. 45-52).
42.       KR is headed by a Managing Director reporting to the Minister of
Transport and Communications through a Board of Directors. Reporting to the
Managing Director are seven department heads. The total staff numbers 21,000,
of whom some 30 are expatriates employed in senior positions. Until KR has
completed training of its own staff, expected in three to five years, expa-
triates will be used to fill vacancies in key posts.
43.       Uncertainties during the EAC breakup and the establishment of KR
have led to a weakening of the Railways' management. Weaknesses are particu-
larly apparent in planning and coordination, statistics and reporting, and
in commercial activities; it is likely that the problems can be solved by
modifying the organizational structure, strengthening certain sections with
technical assistance, and expanding the training program.



- 12 -
44.       Opened in June 1956, KR's training school was originally built to
train EARC staff but is presently used only for KR's needs, and on occasion,
to train railways staff from other Eastern African countries. The school has
the capacity to train 1,000 students at any one time, and currently graduates
about 700-800 students each year in subjects such as mechanical engineering,
civil engineering, traffic, and accounts. The quality of training is partic-
ularly good, and training opportunities abroad are also offered to engineering
graduates after two years of on-the-job training in KR. However, no super-
visory or management training has been offered to these students, which is a
serious shortcoming. Some physical improvements, particularly for buildings
and equipment for the sections are now needed.
Track, Signalling and Telecommunications and Rolling Stock
45.       KR operates 2,050 km of meter gauge single track: 1,080 km of main
line from Mombasa to Malaba at the Uganda border, and 970 km of branch lines.
All rail is laid on steel sleepers, except for a small part of the Magadi line
with wood and concrete sleepers. The rail on most of the main line and on
some branch lines is at least 16 years old, while on some lines it is more
than 50 years old and is beyond its economic life. Track maintenance equip-
ment is 10 to 15 years old and is also generally beyond its economic life.
Machinery and equipment in track maintenance depots are also wearing out and
needs replacing and new depots for long welding of rail and the manufacture
of sleepers are required.
46.       KR is currently planning to establish a transshipment depot at
Malaba to facilitate the movement of transit traffic between Mombasa and
neighboring countries (Uganda, Southern Sudan, Rwanda, Burundi, and Eastern
Zaire). Since plans to improve UR are still unclear, KR has decided to
construct this depot with facilities for containerized freight to allow
rail transport from Mombasa to Malaba and, if necessary, road transport
thereafter. Mombasa station needs to be replaced. Built in 1896, the station
consists of sheds ill-suited to present traffic requirements, and staff are
forced to work in temporary barracks scattered around the station area or in
houses elsewhere in the city. Partly as a result of this, the efficiency of
railway operations has suffered and trained staff have left KR.
47.       The main line and branch lines to Magadi and Kisumu are equipped
with a key-token signalling system, while other branch lines use the train
order system. The main signalling equipment was installed in 1957-1959 and is
still functioning well, although spare parts are becoming difficult to obtain.
KR has therefore decided to renew the system after 1983. A feasibility study
for this work has already begun with financing from the Federal Republic of
Germany. The telecommunications system is basically an open wire transmission
system with interlinks between switchboards at Nairobi and Mombasa via radio
transmission. The complete system is about 60 years old, although some replace-
ments have been made in later years. At present, telecommunications on the
Nairobi-Mombasa line break down, on average, 28 times a month, with repairs
taking from 8 to 17 hours each time. A German consulting group has already
studied the system and has recommended its renewal.



- 13 -
48.       KR has an over-capacity of both locomotives and wagons, and the
existing locomotive fleet should be sufficient to handle the traffic projected
up to 1984-85, provided that spare parts are available. The fleet was con-
verted to diesel power between 1958 and 1979 (although some steam locomotives
will still be in operation during the project period), and consists of 89 main
line diesel electric locomotives and 148 branch line locomotives and shunters,
most of which are diesel hydraulic. The availability rate of locomotives has
been low, averaging 55%-60% in 1975-78 for main line locomotives and 65%-70%
for others, due to lack of preventive maintenance and spare parts.
49.       KR currently has some 11,700 wagon units.  Another 1,700 units
belonging to UR also operate in Kenya. The wagon fleet is quite new and
in good condition, and should meet the needs for wagons beyond the project
period, except for some specialized wagons. However, spare parts continue
to be in short supply due to the lack of foreign exchange. For its passenger
traffic, KR presently has 170 passenger coaches, the majority of which are
more than 30 years old. The coaches are all well maintained, but replacements
are necessary to offer safe passenger service in the future. The present
fleet is also insufficient to meet the projected demand. Accordingly, KR will
be ordering coaches, but they will only be delivered after the project period.
Workshops and Depots, Water Transport and Operations
50.       The workshop for overhaul and major repair of locomotives, wagons
and coaches is located at Nairobi. Depots for servicing locomotives are
located at Mombasa (Changamwe), Nairobi (Makadara), Nakuru, and Eldoret,
while depots for repair of wagons are at Mombasa and Nairobi. The Nairobi
workshop was built to meet the needs of the entire EARC system and is too
large for KR-s present needs. The locomotive shop is currently being modified,
and improvements are needed in other areas. The whole workshop organization
and facilities should, however, be reviewed and adjusted in line with KR's
future requirements before any major modifications are made (para. 63). The
change from steam to diesel traction has also required the modification of all
locomotive depots, which is now underway and will continue throughout the
project period. The new wagon depot at Changamwe is operating well, but lack
of trained manpower has reduced its capacity. A major reason for this manpower
shortage is the lack of housing facilities there, and the lack of public
transport between Mombasa and Changamwe.
51.       Since the breakup of the EAC, marine services have only been a
minor part of KR's operations. The only existing traffic is transport of
agricultural products in the Homa Bay area by tugboats and lighters to Kisumu,
which has a railway wagon ferry terminal, for further transport on the railway
network. KR would like to improve transport to Homa Bay by building a wagon
ferry terminal there to avoid transshipment at Kisumu. They also have an
ongoing program to improve docks and piers in the area. The marine services
also have a workshop and docks for repair and construction of ships at Kisumu.
These facilities have been little used in recent years due to the low traffic
levels; however, since traffic is expected to increase in the future, the
Kisumu workshop buildings, which are now old and in poor condition, should
be improved for upcoming operations.



- 14 -
52.       KR is capable of handling 22 trains a day between Nairobi and
Mombasa and on occasion has operated 26 trains a day. At present, however,
only 12 trains are running. Operations are smooth, and trains show a good
record for punctuality, in spite of the unreliable telecommunications system
which sometimes causes serious delays. In the past, locomotive availability
has been poor, and some trains have had to be cancelled. This problem has
been temporarily solved by delivery of new diesel locomotives and a limited
supply of spare parts.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
53.       The proposed project is based upon the Kenya Government's Five-Year
Development Plan for fiscal years 1979-1983, and Kenya Railways' investment
plan for the same period. Part of the plan is already under implementation
with assistance from bilateral aid and suppliers' credits, and the proposed
project, which was appraised in September 1979, principally covers the last
three years of the plan period (1981-1983). Negotiations were held in
Washington in September 1980, and the Kenyan delegation was led by Mr. Paul
Kihara of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. A Loan and Project
Summary is at the front of this report and the Staff Appraisal Report No.
2980-KE of March 19, 1981, is being distributed separately. A Supplementary
Project Data Sheet is provided as Annex III.
Project Description and Objectives
54.       The proposed investments are intended to improve KR's operations
and transport capacity. The project, by providing for studies and technical
assistance, would also help implement a training program for staff at all
levels and would help KR adjust its organization and modify its operating
facilities to meet its future needs. The project would provide for:
(a) relaying of 103 km of main line track and improving 73
km of branch line track; ballasting and formation works;
improving yards, crossing stations, and buildings; a
transshipment depot at Malaba; and provision of machinery,
vehicles and spare parts for track maintenance;
(b) improving the telecommunications system;
(c) purchasing hopper wagons and provision of spare parts
for locomotives and wagons;
(d) improving maintenance facilities;
(e) improving marine services;
(f) staff housing; and



- 15 -
(g) extension of the training school, overseas training, studies
to improve utilization of KR's facilities, and for technical
assistance at the middle-management level.
Project Components
55.       Track.  About 103 km of main line and 73 km of branch line which
is old and worn out, would be replaced. The rail on the main line would be
long-welded and, to increase the quality of the welded joints, the project
would provide for a flash-butt welding plant. Ballasting, improvements to
yards and crossings, a concrete sleeper plant, maintenance vehicles, machinery,
equipment, and spare parts are also included. The project also provides for
the construction of a new station at Mombasa, and a new transshipment terminal
at Malaba. The track renewal program includes the Kitale-Eldoret branch line,
but existing data are not sufficient to make an economic analysis of this
sub-component. It would thus be a condition of disbursement for rehabilita-
tion of the branch line that evidence had been provided of its economic
justification, which was satisfactory to the Bank, (Schedule 1, para. 4 (b) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       Telecommunications.  The 60 year old telecommunication system
between Nairobi and Mombasa is the cause of many train delays, and consultants
have recommended that KR renew the system on that section. They have also
recommended replacement of the switchboards at Nairobi and Nakuru in 1980, in
order to increase the capacity of the local telephone system, as well as
replacement of old equipment at stations along the line. The existing open
wire transmission system between Nairobi and Mombasa would also be replaced by
underground cable. Financing of these improvements is included in the project.
57.       Rolling Stock and Spare Parts.  KR has covered its need for locomo-
tives as well as general cargo wagons for about the next ten years. Some
hopper wagons are, however, required for increased soda ash traffic and wagons
for transport of logs and containers. The project provides for 30 wagons for
transport of soda ash. Log and container transport would be assisted by
modification of existing flat wagons, and provision would be made for furnish-
ing 150 wagons with roller bearings, and for new cranes and forklifts for
handling logs.
58.       Due to lack of spare parts, locomotive and wagon availability has
been exceptionally low for some time. The project would, therefore, finance
the spare parts needed to build up the stock to normal levels, as well as for
rehabilitation and regular maintenance of locomotives and wagons during the
first year of the project period. KR currently lacks sufficient emergency
equipment, and two breakdown cranes of 75 tons capacity are thus included
in the project.
59.       Workshops and Equipment.  The workshops in Nairobi would be reorgan-
ized following a study of KR's future needs (paras. 50 and 63). Certain minor
improvements can, however, be made prior to the study's completion and would
be provided for under the project. These include: (a) continuation of works
to modify the locomotive workshop from steam to diesel traction; (b) provision



- 16 -
of specialized machines for repair of locomotive components such as traction
motors, auxiliary machines and generators, which must now be sent abroad;
(c) provision of testing equipment for diesel locomotives; (d) replacement of
old machinery; and (e) provision of an additional foundry for melting steel
scrap to billets for the manufacture of spare parts. The ongoing program for
modification of steam locomotive depots to diesel depots will proceed during
the project period. Provision would also be made under the project for
fuelling stations, extension of the Changamwe diesel depot, and rebuilding of
the carriage and wagon depot at Eldoret.
60.       Water Transport.  Capacity to transport agricultural products from
the Homa Bay area to Kisumu for further rail transport should be increased,
but the various transport alternatives must be studied before any construction
can begin. The project thus provides for a study and the first phase of
construction of a terminal at Homa Bay and improvements to docks and piers
between Homa Bay and Kisumu. The marine workshops and workshop equipment at
Kisumu are currently in poor condition and will not be able to handle the
planned expansion in water transport capacity. The project would, therefore,
provide for urgently needed improvements, including replacement of some
machinery.
61.       Staff Quarters.  Staff working at the Changamwe yard outside Mombasa
all live in Mombasa and must find their own transport to work due to lack of
public transport facilities.  Staff on early shifts are usually forced to stay
overnight in the Changamwe area or sleep on the workshop floor since no
housing facilities are provided. This lack of both transport and housing
has led many trained staff to leave KR, and as a result the wagon shop is
presently only working at one third of its capacity. In addition, living
quarters for track maintenance staff along the line are in poor condition and
should be improved. The project would provide for the new housing facilities
at Changamwe as well as improvements to other living quarters along the line.
62.       Training, Technical Assistance, and Studies.  The railway training
school, built for EARC's needs, should be reorganized and modernized. KR is
also planning establishment of a much-needed management training school, for
which new buildings and equipment would be required. These are included in
the project. Management training would principally take place in Kenya at the
training school, and would be provided partly by visiting instructors.
Managers, mainly specialists, who cannot be trained in Kenya would be sent
abroad for training. All training is provided for in the project.
63.       The project includes a variety of studies which should also help
strengthen KR. The organizational structure of KR will be reviewed to improve
its efficiency and coordination of operations. The organization and facili-
ties at the Nairobi workshop would also be studied in the light of KR's future
requirements, and a study would be undertaken to identify the training require-
ments of lower-level staff and to reorganize the training school. Further-
more, three other studies to .be undertaken under the proposed project would
be carried out by KR in coordination with MTC; these studies relate to the
transport of various commodities by road and rail, in particular the trans-
port of agricultural products between Kisumu and Homa Bay, and the establish-
ment and operation of a costing system by KR for the regular and detailed



- 17 -
collection and computation of costs related to railway operations (Schedule
2, Parts I (5), I (6) and I (7) of the draft Loan Agreement). All studies
would be done with the assistance of consultants whose qualifications,
experience, and terms of reference would be satisfactory to the Bank, and who
would be employed by December 1, 1981 (Section 2.02 (a) and (b) of the draft
Project Agreement).
Project Cost Estimates
64.       The total project cost is estimated at US$142.1 million equivalent;
the net cost excluding taxes and duties is US$133.8 million. The foreign
exchange component is estimated to be US$88.3 million equivalent, about 62% of
total project costs. The cost estimates are based on recent quotations and
bids for similar materials and equipment updated to 1980 prices, and include
adequate price and physical contingencies. Details of project costs are
given in the Loan and Project Summary. The total investment in the Five Year
Railway Development Plan is estimated at US$257.6 million equivalent, of which
the proposed project represents the investment for 1981-83. In 1979-80 the
investment of US$115.5 million equivalent represents purchase of shunters,
wagons, hopper wagons, and track material from the UK, part of it financed by
UK grants and the rest on commercial terms.
Financing
65.       The proposed Bank loan of US$58.0 million would finance about 43%
of the estimated net project cost and about 66% of the estimated foreign
exchange cost. The remainder of the foreign exchange cost will be met from
two other sources, by September 1, 1981 (Sections 5.01(g) and (h) of the Draft
Loan Agreement). The Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) has provided about
US$16.7 million equivalent, of which US$13.9 million would be used to finance
the foreign exchange cost of the telecommunications component, and part of
the workshop and equipment and spare parts components. The loan would be to
the Government for 50 years, including 10 years grace, with a service charge
of 0.75% per annum. The African Development Bank (AfDB) would provide about
US$7.5 million during the project period (out of a total loan of US$13.0
million equivalent) to finance part of the rolling stock, workshop, equipment,
and spare parts components. The balance of the loan would be utilized beyond
the project period for the financing of passenger coaches. The loan would
also be to the Government for 20 years with 5 years grace with interest at
7.0% per annum. The on-lending terms to KR of the KfW loan have not yet been
determined, but are expected to include an interest rate of 10% per annum.
The AfDB loan would be onlent for 20 years with 5 years grace, with an
interest rate of 10% per annum. Proceeds of the Bank loan would also be
onlent by the Government to KR for a period of 20 years including five years
of grace, with interest at not less than 10% per annum. 1/ (Section 3.01(b) of
1/   The inflation rate in Kenya (defined as the increase in the average
Consumer Price Index) rose from 10.4% in 1977 to 12.5% in 1978 and
after declining to about 11% in 1979 is estimated to be 14% in 1980.
Over the period 1981-83 the inflation rate is expected to moderate from
about 10% to 8%, thus the proposed interest rate would be marginally
positive in real terms.



- 18 -
the Draft Loan Agreement). The proposed interest rate is in line with
Governmental policy on on-lending to parastatals. KR would bear the foreign
exchange risk. The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and KR, acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed loan (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
Government would provide, through concessionary financing from other donors,
about US$8.9 million equivalent to meet part of the foreign exchange costs of
the track and civil works, workshop, equipment, and the water transport
components. Total external financing would thus amount to US$91.0 million or
about 68% of net project cost. Local costs amounting to US$53.8 million would
be financed primarily by KR from internal resources (US$51.0 million) and the
balance by KfW.
Procurement and Disbursement
66.       Equipment and material financed by the Bank would be obtained through
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines, with
provision made for a 15% preference for domestic manufacturers in bid comparison,
except for:
(a) small orders under US$100,000 each, but not exceeding
US$1.0 million in total, which would be procured through
prudent shopping; and
(b) spare parts and materials for rehabilitation and maintenance
of locomotives and wagons, up to a total amount of US$9 million,
which would be procured from the original manufacturers or on
the basis of at least two quotations from established and
reliable component manufacturers.
Items to be financed by the Bank are track-related material and equipment,
station buildings and depots, spare parts for rehabilitation and maintenance,
construction material for staff quarters, and training and technical assistance.
Unit costs of technical assistance are estimated to average between about
US$4,000-US$10,000 per man month.
67.       The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed over a four year period
as follows: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures for track material, spare parts,
material and equipment; or 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
goods; and (b) 100% of foreign expenditures, or 80% of local expenditures for
training and technical assistance. Retroactive financing of up to US$200,000
is recommended for expenditures incurred after September 1, 1980, for a
consultant to study the present tariff structure and design a traffic costing
system, so that tariff adjustments can be made as soon as possible (para. 75).
Project Implementation and Operational Targets
68.       KR would be responsible for the implementation of the Project and
is competent to do so. The project is based upon improvements in operational
efficiency on the basis of specific targets relating to locomotive and wagon
availability and productivity, wagon load and turnaround time, and staff
productivity (Section 2.01(c) and Schedule 2 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 19 -
Forecasts of Future Traffic
69.       Future internal traffic on KR will depend on many factors, including
the overall level of economic activity in Kenya, import and export growth, the
development of regions with low levels of economic activity, Government policy
on road and rail transport, operational efficiency of KR, and competition from
road transport. The freight traffic is projected to increase from 1.9 million
tonne-km in 1979 to 2.3 million tonne-km in 1984, a growth rate of 3.5% per
annum; and by 4.5% per annum from 1985-1990. Thereafter, a conservative
growth rate of 3% has been projected. Passenger traffic growth is projected
at around 10% in 1980, 8% in 1981, 7% in 1982, and 3.5% in 1983 and thereafter,
which is just under the projected annual population growth rate. High growth
rates for 1980-82 have been foreseen because of the apparent excess demand
that now exists.
70.       At present a substantial amount of external traffic for Uganda,
Rwanda and Burundi is transported by road (para. 36). With the construction
of transshipment facilities at Malaba and KR's improved operational efficiency
as a result of the proposed project, all external traffic will be able to
transit Kenya by rail. The Bank-s economic projections for the Ugandan
economy indicate a significant recovery over the next three to four years;
however, given the risk factor attached to these projections, a conservative
traffic growth has been assumed. Even so, Ugandan traffic for 1984 is tenta-
tively projected at 0.5 million tons, compared to the present traffic level
of 0.15 million tons and the 1971 level of 1.4 million tons. In 1979 over 0.2
million tons of Rwanda and Burundi traffic were transported through Kenya,
nearly all by road; traffic for Rwanda, Burundi, and Eastern Zaire to be
transported by KR in 1984 is conservatively estimated to reach 0.11 million
tons. Projections for all transit traffic assume that the Malaba transship-
ment facilities will be constructed and in use by 1983.
Financial Evaluation
71.       Settlement of EARC's Assets and Liabilities.  Until such time as
the affairs of EARC are finalized, the assets and liabilities inherited by KR
from EARC will not be known in detail. An agreement was reached in May 1976
between the partner states which allocated the payment of long-term debts of
EARC on the following basis: Kenya-48%; Tanzania-37%; and Uganda-15%. This
formula was based on the EARC assets believed to be in each country, as
revalued, at December 31, 1974. Consequently KR has taken into its accounts
48% of the assets and long-term debt of EARC, but the 1976 agreement provides
that this formula is interim and subject to retroactive adjustment when the
Community affairs are finalized. KR has prepared operating statements for
the interim period between the de facto demise of EARC and the incorporation
of KR on January 11, 1978. These accounts are provisional and unaudited, and
may be adjusted to take account of the final settlement of EARC's assets and
liabilities.
72.       Past Financial Performance.  During the three year period 1975-77,
revenues earned by the Kenya region of EARC covered all working expenses.
During 1978, revenues covered the provision for depreciation in its entirety
and approximately 50% of the interest expense. The balance sheet as of
December 31, 1978 shows that the total net fixed assets were US$237.6 million.



- 20 -
Included in the fixed assets is an amount of US$139.7 million for locomotives,
wagons and coaches purchased by the Government for the use of KR. The Govern-
ment has indicated that of this amount, about US$71.0 million will be treated
as a loan to KR and the balance as equity. The fixed assets are shown at
historical cost. KR is in a liquid position and the operating surplus covers
the debt service charges by the ratio of 1.6 to 1.
73.       Financial Projections.  The proposed project covers the three-year
period 1981-83. During this period the annual cash flows will be negative due
to the heavy investment in fixed assets. However, the cash reserves on hand
at the start of the period will be more than sufficient to cover the annual
shortfall during implementation. Positive cash flows will be generated from
1984. However, in order to safeguard KR's cash flow situation during the
period of implementation of the proposed project, KR will consult semi-annually
with the Government and the Bank on the adequacy of the Investment Plan
(1981-83) and, if necessary, make such revisions as may be agreed upon on the
basis of economic, financial and technical studies (Section 4.03 of the draft
Project Agreement). In addition, the Government will periodically review and
discuss with the Bank any future investments in the railway sector which it
proposes to undertake (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). While there
may be adjustments when the Community affairs are finalized, they should not
materially affect the cash position. The projections also indicate that KR
should experience no difficulty in financing not only the local costs, but
also servicing the associated indebtedness.
74.       Debt Limitation.  KR should have no difficulty in financing all
indebtedness and KR will not incur any debt if its operating surplus for the
fiscal year, or the twelve consecutive months immediately before the date the
debt is incurred, whichever is greater, would be less than 1.5 times the
maximum debt service requirements of any succeeding fiscal year (Section 4.04
of the draft Project Agreement).
75.       Tariff Structure.  Tariffs are classified in 10 classes/groups
according to wagon type, load and distance. Oil traffic is subject to a
special tariff and certain other commodities have tariffs set by special
convention. Oil accounts for approximately 20% of total tonnes carried by KR
and the special convention commodities approximately 16%. Kenya-s Five-Year
Development Plan (1979-83) states the Government-s intention that tariffs be
based on clearly identified costs. In addition, high priority is to be given
to ensuring that traffic is allocated between transport modes according to the
most efficient means. In order to achieve a tariff structure that will
accomplish the foregoing, a consultant has been retained to design a traffic
costing system (para. 67) (Section 2.02(b)(ii) of the draft Project Agreement).
The results and recommendations of the study would be implemented by September
1, 1981 (Section 2.02 (c) of the draft Project Agreement). Also, three
traffic costing specialists, who would be trained in costing techniques by the
consultant or by a suitable railway abroad, would be employed by KR by September
1, 1981 (Section 3.06 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 21 -
76.       In order to generate sufficient revenues to cover working expenses,
debt service, principal and interest, and to provide for a reasonable con-
tribution towards development costs, it will be necessary for the Government
and KR to take appropriate measures, including but not limited to tariff
adjustments, to ensure that the working ratio does not exceed 70% commencing
January 1,1982. The working ratio is defined as the ratio of expenses, before
provision for depreciation and interest, to operating revenues (Section 4.07
of the draft Project Agreement). The working ratio in 1979 was 83%. The
internal financial rate of return with the project investments is 22%. In
addition, KR will, by November 1, 1981, implement an adequate traffic costing
system and take corrective measures, including, but not limited to, changes in
the level and structure of tariffs, to ensure that its tariff structure
reflects the true cost of operations (Section 2.02(c) and Section 4.09 of the
draft Project Agreement).
77.       Audits and Accounts and Insurance.  The external audit of KR is
carried out by the Controller and Auditor General; the audit report together
with an operations report is submitted to the Minister of Transport and
Communications, who presents it to Parliament within nine months of the end of
each financial year. However, the auditor's report issued for the year ended
December 31, 1978, KR's first fiscal year, contained numerous qualifications,
mainly relating to the assets and liabilities from the EARC. Accordingly,
until the division of EARC's assets and liabilities has been finalized, KR
would submit to the Bank provisional financial statements, with qualified
auditor's opinions, within nine months of the end of each fiscal year (Section
4.02 of the Draft Project Agreement). KR is self-insured, which is an accepted
practice.
Economic Benefits and Justification
78.       The project's main objective is to increase the efficiency and
reliability of KR's services, and thereby to help expand the use of rail
transport, which is the most economical transport option for both transit
traffic and long-distance Kenyan traffic. The benefits of the project have
been evaluated from a regional standpoint, as benefits will accrue to Kenya,
Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, and Eastern Zaire. The benefits that have been
taken for the project as a whole, and for most of its individual components,
are vehicle operating cost (voc) savings, based on the assumption that if
the project were not implemented traffic would be diverted from the railways
to road transport, at a higher economic cost. Comparative road and rail
transport costs are as follows: for the road, they are KShs 0.44 per tonne-
km in 1980 prices, determined on the basis of the Bank's Highway Design and
Maintenance Model. The corresponding costs of rail transport are KShs 0.23
per tonne-km, based on KR's average transport distance of 530 km. Road trans-
port of long-distance cargo would therefore increase transport costs by about
KShs 0.21 per tonne-km. The major physical components of the project have
been evaluated individually to assess marginal benefits of each component.
The economic rate of return on track related investments, is estimated at
23%, on telecommunications equipment at 14%, on spare parts and workshop
improvements at 49% and on hopper wagons at 30%. Other project components,
amounting to 19% of the total economic cost of the project, could not be
specifically analyzed. These are the construction of Mombasa Station, training
and technical assistance, equipment for container depots and wagon conversion,



- 22 -
construction of staff quarters, and improvement of docks, piers and marine
workshops. They are, however, important to achieving the overall project
objectives and have been included in the economic evaluation of the project
as a whole.
79.       The project-s overall economic rate of return on a regional basis
is 21%, including the components not separately analyzed. This rate of
return includes the purchase of additional locomotives that will be necessary
from 1985 to 1988 to realize all the benefits of the project in the form of
increased wagon capacity. Evaluated on a national basis, since Kenya will
benefit directly from the increase in transit traffic, the overall economic
return to Kenya is 15%.
80.       There are three major risks which could alter the outcome of the
project, namely a lower than expected traffic growth rate, a lower than
expected improvement in KR's performance, and an increase in project costs.
The major risk to the project is that traffic will not reach the levels
projected. However, the economic return in the event of only a 2.0% increase
in the level of Kenyan traffic, and no increase in external traffic until
1985, is 14%. Second, even if the improvement in KR's performance is slower
than expected; reducing the improvement in turnaround time resulting from the
proposed project, and the availability rates of locomotives and wagons, the
remaining benefits would still yield an economic return of 19%. With regard
to the third risk, even if costs increase by 20%, the rate of return will be
18%.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
81.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Kenya Railways and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
82.       The main features of the Loan and Project Agreement are referred to
in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III. Execution of a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the Government and Kenya Railways would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
83.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
84.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 6, 1981



-23-                                                    ANNEX I
PaRe I
KENYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KENYA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           -  DST RECENT ESTEM YE)
TOTAL             582.6
AGRICULTURAL       60.4                                  MOST RECENT             LaW INCOME              MIDDLE INCGME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE  b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   110.0        170.0      380.0                 260.0                     868.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       143.0        135.0     139.0                   80.0                    699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        8.0         11.3      14.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  7.4           10.2       13.3                  17.3                      2P.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         32.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          109. 0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KEM.                        14.0         19.0      25.0                   27.4                     61.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    142.0          191.0     243.0                   82.6                     126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           47.5         45.8      49.5                   44.9                      45.5
15-64 YRS.                           50.0         51.6      48.0                   52.2                     51.6
65 YS. AND ABOVE                      2. 5         2.6       2.5                    2.8                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3. 2         3.4       3.3                    2.7                      2. 7
URBAN                                5.8          6.6       6.9                    6.8                      4. 9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       51.0         50.0       51.0                  47.4                      46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       19.0         15.0       14.0                  19.6                      16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..          3.4        3.8                   3.2                       3.2
FAM ILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..         30.9      71.4
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            2.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FPOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            99.0        102.0      87.0                   91.8                     94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREDENTS)                     99. 0        99. 0     88.0                   90. 2                    92. 1
PROTEINS (GRAIIS PER DAY)           70.0         68.0      52.0                   53.0                     53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         29.0         28.0      20.0                   18.4                     15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       25.0         18.0       14.0                  27.7                     21.3
WEATH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.0           52.0      53.0                   45.3                      50. 1
INPANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            126.OLc      119.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         15.0      17.0                   23.2                     31.0
URBAN                                 .         100.0     100.0                   58.0                     66.8
RURAL                                 ..          2. 0      4.0                   16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         50.0      55.0                   28.9
URBAN                                 ..         85.0      98.0                   67.0
RURAL                                 ..         45.0      48.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           10560.0       7839.OLd 11954. Od              30910.4                  14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2230.01,cd  1476.0OA  1116.0/d                5793.2                   3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              807.Ojc      775.0     629.0                 1198.9                   1141.5
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
AU4ISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED             ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..          4.7
URBAN                                 ..          4.7
RURAL                                 ..          4.1
AVERAGE NQ4BER OF PERSONS PER ROCN
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                2.5t          ..        ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF UWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..



-24-                                                       ANNEX I
*Re 2
KENYA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KENYA                          REFEENCi GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE)GES
- MOST RECFNT FSTIMATE)
MOST RECENT            LOW  INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 /b ESTDIATE Lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
FRIMARY:     TOTAL                  47.0         64.0     104.0                   57. 7                     61. 7
HALE                  64.0         74.0     110.0                   74.2                      69.2
F IXALE               30.0         53.0      98.0                   54.1                      51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0          9.0      17.0                   10.0                      20.6
MALE                   3.0         12.0      21.0                   13.7                      29.2
FEMALE                 2.0          5.0      13.0                    7.1                      14. 7
VOCATIONAI ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)    ..            2.0       2.0                    6.8                       7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             42.0        34.0       33.0                   45.0                     36.6
SECONDARY                           15.0        21.0       24.0                   25.2                      24.3
ADLULT LITERACY RATE (PEPCENT)        20. 07c      30.0      40.0                   25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
PGPULATION                           8. 0         9.0       7.8                    3.6                     38.8
RADIO RECEIVTRS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7. 0       45.0       38. 0                  31.5                     83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0. 3         1. 4      3.7                    1. 8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTERET"') CIRCULATION PER
THOLSAND POPULA71ON                   13.0         14.0      10.0                    4.6                     24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1. 0            ..       0. 4                    ..                       0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LA30R FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3230.3      4324.4    5437.9
FEM'ALE (PERCENT)                   34.8        33.6       34.0                   33.5                     38. 1
AGRICULTiRE (PLRCENT)               85.8         82. 1     79.0                   80. 7                    54.3
INDUSIRY (PERCENT)                   5. 1         7. 1      8.0                    8. 1                    17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 41.2         40.6      39.2                   42.2                      38.8
MALE                                  54. 5        53.8      52.3                   55. 1                     48.4
FpIALE                                28.2         27.4      26.1                   29.5                     29.4
ECONCMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1. 2         1. 3       1. 4                  1.2                       1. 3
INCOSLE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        20.2/e
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          52. 6/e
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         3.9/e
LtlWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        11. 7je
POVERTY TARCET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      150.0                  183.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..      112.0                  86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      179.0                  107.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      106.0                   65.0
ESTLMATEL POPULATION BELOW ABSOLLTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       10.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..       55.0                   66.9
Not availeble
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmecic macns.  Coverage of countries
mong the Indicators depends on avaUlability of data and is not uniform.
Lb   Unless otherwtse noted. data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recbnt Estleote. betwcen 1974 and !978.
jL   1962;  id Reglatered, not all prActtcing in the country;  /e Urban only.
Most r.cent estimate of GNP per cApita ia for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



-25-ANEI
Fast 3
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL. NOICATOO
Noes Alth-ugh the data urn draws fro    ore    snalyjde   o    otsihetto    n   eit,h   hudas  heutned, b                                    thatthe  sa  not h  inte-
oetlusstlyoararshls   ersuse uf  he   l hac   ot g ansuduodjee d  l de itos sob ocpeue   ydfeetcuitet   ultio    b   aa    h  data se,
thelete                    ...lt   eceh    reso  s0tus   e Iran.I  rIds  Io.tru o t.  .         sonat  majod do ternor  h          -tsnruuoti.g  h,dl.I.d                    ...
least ho fb~  of the  otrt   e    rophsdt  o   that hdtosto.  tio t.                   n h. cree   f ooto ~g-ho  tudicekors deperde u  tie s-ilbishliy of
LOOT AREA (ckuh sdsqos)                                                                           uolatu  oer 'bosloPh        -OpuuIton dti-det hy  -ate  00 pnactioig pup-
haOcutuet-   seistoof  grtottrs  oes-ed  -ep-otily orP rsrmuetlp                        P Foultiuu Eec Nur-iePrts-P           ouaindlided by tsbee of pnectiutslg
toe cr Ps patrs  maretso  ktohe- gsrldes ort   tie  fsllo; 107  data                          maead feal  gradute nuse,   acOrO ures  ad as.t.                          nnuss
Feguitio  oa Pr Husitl nied - totl, urban, teild rsss  -Ppuotm(ntftl.
IMP On COITO (01$)    IP'pa  cephita~ ebiue    t  urn    are   rcs,rt                           a, sed tonl) diridd hp their respective: suh- of huspitel1ed
ruisted hr  tam lotoruoe   sehoda  Ord     DAsh lse  (hoIp-   haste); 19bE,                      -veilble In puhito nud private geerl  and epeisiteed huspital sa 
190), etd  1979 Oats..                                                                           habfhlitetio   casters..  O.pitals ar  ea-aliefhsete   . pestlutIp t.ftsd
by at least o..t physlician E.stblshlisaeut pneviditg pnMisrps1y rustdis1
ENEtRGY CONSUMPTiION PER C'P""' -  uuA......P osuyioo of  -oero la ...nrgpy(oa                     c     Arlur  ur-itdd.  Osrl hospitals, however, inciade bhlth and  -adis
sad  ..geite. peroeu. ust-es  gsa uud hydo-, nudes  sod ge-heom1 ele-                            retrsot peaetpsa                        byIpylis htb       einlsssat
eFt.It,) it  '1, hionai   sO  col,nq-unlen   Per -apica; i19,100,    sud l 1978                  use,  hwi          tc.) whih ffery  ispan iett. orcodstaby         sodi1 prevode
data.                                                                    h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ImIe-da-sge uf med1loi tfilitite.  For Itatiettoi.  purposes utb    haspl-
PPO;IOTIN AND1 VITAL STATISTICSo1 baialslocal usO rutstip. hee lnsmdmdclsdmtoiy A Ises
lotsi P.0iato,Mid-fear (IIon ..    Asl 0  July 1;109  1070. sad lOM                            Amsios978eictDd-lca   uhto  admisost   rdshrs
Oats.                                                                  true~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f.  hosritals divided hr the nmber of hsds.
diten _tdfluitiu   of unha  area  ma pffect cb,un p-bsility of data
usesroutis;lOI,fOt  ad  07  do.                                                        veas  Oa  o  Oushid(oressncIouehld     tra,  rhnSsdNGel
Flesl udfml  ildupcac   eteiltuga0.5ps. theit  pha--ilns    asrcnI-. AbduelOdine-'utopmeeiurtusmd
estes 0 r lcitly rae 0.0"'hone 1thre  lesals  - suith   declu...to                   oucorupied parts.-
fertiliny  aconou  t  tcuesol..A.ps  fasityplottnghpeformu... gu                              has         d Elctict  (ranctut ofl dee.li Yru     -      Yct)  usher.  ied rune  -
sud fartiltcp  Oreude forl projct  ..iut,  ihlty.p purpAsa.                          o   total  ura. .n..        sldaltaraeci
nba neplaceatut layel of otIs ust. rtpruaotto  race, ehen lmat  sesaios            Primaysho      oa,motmdfel      rs  ttl   aeadfs
of ouilts ..r.n.     iai    aoty        Osalo            pudiaiugste  .aouriltdt o  al  gesecth  primary'd  ....l npercetae  oftep                                            dte
sthtma..d on L theI   . iauis at th   poeted  chs -sc ien   tice  o  th  pupoeution            prmay   chol-s  puuai1m,,rai  ioua  cIdre_                          gebNi
slee has beet reached.9-thtetoodary' soboul -. tal-, sale i ..d  ..s.l P- fsnt-                                                                  asbnescd
Par s. is. -   i-erpplco    e   qasklmtr(0   etns   spon-tdes - getairal, s ,ction,untt                                                 hrtaosaisrctastu    u
Stota.hlh ares,                                                                                 osmaity tf ii toP 7l years. of.         a y .oreoder   orssueameai
Pe  s. bin .saiutrle   - Computed a  shun  ton agr  Itufs                tl. laudATIONuid
y..ess)    200O raied(Oper d l       one)as  ersttge  o  mdd-ran rPO'                        et-l  or as desnsat   f  eouey  tttuio
-siu -d iogo  1070  sodI lOO   dat.                                                           Fuul-eacer  sio -oh t              ed facutdury.. -Ttl~ etud uca efroie   i
fod lit   aels t     housay d)   Ausulh -T. line  inhe peo      i t .o..e  uf a.Pld-yestt                             .   i       tI.lh   fPi-ydttii 
p.p"aIou"l 10 11071h   sO178oas                                                          CONNAiFtilllON          .i  ..1  dtt.
frud  Det  Rt  ne  busa)-  uuk    ets  e   hose  ofisidrear                                   PSerudsso    ... far    t.ethosu  roustu        assge   usfmrs    e
pusisin;1 bE,llll- 1001, an      Cd 10Oss                                                   cere seantutg Oese " .. ...at nih  pee -h;.olue  seutre,hare_e
Grum                                                                                              ...doish  i-ntg    abt  fdshem    amtmi   eri   si l ry  fn12 le. 1
a'ly: Plsmaias-lse           978 (rr tee uf "arkr nomeo)    t - Procg  of  madris                icldetmublse  (o og
soen o  childhsRisug    Al-l                      ..u . th  use-ith-cerol  eicsttTOhaenraIt  tb-1asnd rorult ion   -  Vhrceier  Out                                  . trdas  tu.p
all . mauedssn  tsmeoefru.gteo  p                                                                                    .hio pa   f.....d y drlstu;aoue   uiuue          eevr
ude  of Fod Fuduo...      ret 9 Esoits  lhOOlO       us  of per              - ca ita utue    Nsese  iroltn    rtthusdeslais       bnhhoorgoe
is  stalsda  peati   hns    omuiiscnrpaon   od   sg   aaou                                    ob   diy    fi   pen at                 . leas  fcurc lae ftsa hmask.th
teW  rescudd   kiest    routttohac    eutyisbsd  5tikt  sl.urn.heper n'itgadi,,m    udlsioi~
eaPtio0u 1970 uvrasprdoe  pric   dagu;16-5.17,md17   aa.admbl is
Rtesnia  se  i   foo -prcesi       f adalosseslo dit ibuilu ab-        re Ilef  1nona isoeusrortarentupnhi;10,00ad
est  mt  senfo it           d by POP baesd on    . phslsel. nedsfr-uma   ot-              006daa
m_ d sno distioins  reslte,  e   lmn  it pe19o6 fo  waste tI.-iou97ur  (re t)h-. d Leo  force                                                  Alu fa ping   fu fer,  uag  a
houselhodln; 1016..107,  so  10data,I                                                         fishng aypacl_cge  f nisl  aborfum; tOi.  070  nd  078  ata
Far cens autri  of eruefe (sems eaodan  -PstO           gouee  utorcnt           iselr Ire-ee d-t Isho  to-rt  no  iuag   ount                  -bctot  asuufstuent
sety supyuI        fo   eedp   Ntsplyobkmdi   efnda  ahuno.  .5-tan .rl be1icity, eieru,    gas. asprelaeu   oullb                                                 dt         00
quiemoes  ot  ll  ooerie  eacblnhdibbUIApsvid   frhisiun000  uda00ddia
aede are loner than thoan of 75 seams of totalth-protnie med 23 stemsIsf
sOOD iNa  pRo e    sanseeetoThI0ld1rpse   yPTiutemn                                             perc.tage  of. toal  maI.       a  tamalepap-fciun                f slagsaestivl
aord   Pood Duroepd       01hl01ad  07dt 11960,t9~.110     11         P,-it                    -        1000,  lndt107  dees these- ate_01.0' ptrtcipttoarataeemieo-t
mates se Onon  stio _tlsources
Child  ages 141 ttoiulioyRate ler thossed) -Auo1" deset  pee  fboesd Is                                            lIp,d,lpb
age group 1-4 yearn, to chiOdres On this age greu~~~~p;-l for mos  denliug cos    to the "dtily isbrfus
eris dnedenve   frn ife Itubles  106I  100ne   00    at.i:onuinuty
atboth g100  lp  sd. 107  daita. -gt;16-5    90     d17    -a                                  b
lufer  Motaity Ratepp  (rep thoosi ud) -CotulduteO  0fa ts odr orf                  ertoartTOOToo
ofsg   outhoau "ln  brts                                                              Cetmcd   hslt iuee  IcmetNol O) e  cpta  -oba"Pdina
Aroesc  Sfe  ate    'tron   f     P"orlsnte"I totl,  ua,odrrl- t                            boueporc   nuelolO  ie   eoelo"beo    bo                                     ia
Nerhe ody ule(uol ocer-ad  oeb   athnesoIIeeres odaf                                          stntum1ladqut   desp-5to-etil  o-fudreule ae  s  o
asersupl  fuouds  reoe    ur sn   atrsorunreee    utanoeasrsed                       aforabe
Iti-t.d by FAC b ... d phytiate  Frulcin blu   Abolte  snet isom L...feeodt)  fbs
fsul'  wtr  sdszudoul-Pecntofppusiotuem   s9ria)   h  us   asIstl                                                                                                               pu"
t da  - Oued   f  epe   ttl,ub-  a-'id             P unl) trved bdy maihta,-
dipoa   aspr inae  of PePhei-nesp doalne  peomlattoIs tacrat  die-b   foeoeo  od5ot5 %Dna                                                               -tlios   -
h...sel     1 -o   1oc 6ud   the  1n970cu   nu Ipsa,na  un with-not1tesanmeof.frosue lo At                                                        ....i so .F.jntamai De fta
ofIisoeces  ndase      da by         7 eae dorsastt       rth   a  o                                                                    culr10
p e'I.. p     Ille  an  sEol-a   i -ttstsllattPoee-.t



-26-
ANNEX I
Kuilt
Ecnom-ic Llev.    P,s Data Shoon
6o6xx1           Ore~~-1llalnn                  Poxiect0                                                         oft GewO1978
1976        1977        1978                     1980t        198         1           19           19729D         17-82           1981t69        1985-90 S21r, of
Y7.1ND l  S 5V a 1976 pic.s)
1.   OD9                                    3474.1       3767.0      4077.8       4176.0      4282.6      4427 5       5332.3      7094.5          322            5.0             4.8            5.8            100.0
2.  Cle- f-oo  T                                 - _     344.5        +26.3       -17.6        -62.2      -106.1       -158.2      -188.6           .                                                             0.6
lolDr                                  3474.1       4111.5      4104.1       4158.6      4220.5      4321.4       5174.2      6985.9          1.9            4.5             4.6           5.9             100.6
4.   1 -ort                                  1103.2      1300.3      1621.4       1344.1      1413.0       1360.5      1505.7     IDI.5           -3.2             4.3            2.6           4.6              39.8
5.   Koport.- box.                          1127.4       1094.4      1104.2      1045.4       1083.5      1152.6       1464.8      1991.8          5.8            1.0             6.1           6.3              27.1
6.   ExportT- 7t f37.tfd                     1127.4      1438.9       1130.5      1027.8      1021.3       1046.4      1306.6      1803.3         -0.8           -1.5             3.7            6.7             27.7
7 onco.ro  3 p - tt eGlo..d                  -24.Z       -138.6       o90.9       316.3        391.7       314.1        199.1        78.3          '                                      .                      12.]
8.   TotOW  Con.x..p.lot                     2746.7      3021.1      3426.8       3610.1      3730.4      3735.9       4212.9      5419.3          1.2            6.3             3.0            5.2             84.0
9.  Iv-e-t                                    703.3       951.8      1168.2        864.6       861.8        8"9.6      1160.4      1564.9         .3.2            5.1             6.5            6.1             28.6
10.  Nartonal .IS-ig.                          604.6       906.8       665.1        528.0       462.7        565.5       931.5      1491.1         -0.4           -1.4            13.3           9.9              16.1
ll.  Do.-.t-  S-anom5                          727.4      1090.4       677.3        54.3        470.1       505.5        961.3      1486.6          6.6           -4.3            13.2           9.1              16.5
12.   GDP atococentUS                         3 3474.1    4493.5      5324.1       6037.3      6946.1      7888.3      12352.9     20975.6         13.8           17.8            11.8          11.2
Cilia. of 097 ct 1976 prIce)
1.   opufactor4g Ocdoxtro                     16.2         17.0        17.9         18.7        18.6        18.6         19.4        22.4          2.4            8.0             5.9           9.0
2.  oAr Itolcore                              37.9         38.3        37.3        36.0         35.3        35.0         33.5        31.0          2.3            3.4             3,6           4.2
3.   other                                    45.9         44.6        44.8         45.3        46.0        46.3         47.1        46.5          3.3            5.2             5.2           5.6
1.   Export Pttc Index                       100.0        143.5       132.6        145.5       162.7       172.2       237.2        337.9        17.1            11.4            6.3            7.3
2.   Import  rtci Iodex                      10.0         109.2       127.9        149.3       178.1       200.0       283.6        394.8        25.0            14.9            9.1            6.6
3.   Ter.  f T74.                             100.0       131.4       103.7         97.5        91.3        86.1        83.6         85.6
4.  CP Deflator (U6 2)                        100.0       119.3       130.6        144.6       162.2       178.4       231.7        295.7         13.9           12.3            6.0            5.0
5S   An*rqe Onctege tote
106 V/0W)                                 2.390        2.416       2.588       2.675        2.667
1972.76        1676-80          1981-85         1986-90
D.   SelectS Indtcotore
1.  2C0R                                                   9.2            6.0              4.7             3.8
2.  Ipc porEl ic-Iy                                       -1.4            0.4             0.3              0.8
3. A-t.qe Deetoi Sxirtg  R6e-                             20.0           16.3             16.3            20.6
4. A-rege N.t-r.l 0.01mg. ixte                           17.8           15.3             16.2            21.0
5.  -arxlmal Nx lomxl -oine- 2ete                         2.41          -1.53            0.62             0.33
6. Iepoetor                                               37.9           35.4             29.1            27.2
7.  l---tletIlDY                                         23.9            22.8            21.6             22.3
6.  xocrte Gep/CID                                         3.21           6.6              5.3             2.2
E.    lo.1                                                      1975           1976             1977            1938             1979
1. Lbco For- tc.-I                                   6,4D0,000
2. Weoe l96loyent                                       819,10D        857,500          902,900         911,600         972,300
Pronte local
F.     j333le fla._cS                                        1972173        1973174          1974175         1975176         1976/77          1977178          1978179             1979780
1.  I*correot mvenu.                              .      149.0           190.4           226.3            269.2           314.1            471.4           490.1                580.5
2. Cerreet txpeodltore                                    139.6          162.7            207.4           246.8           285.1            400.1           467.3                522.0
3.  9ece.c  lorplo.                                        -9.4          .27.7            .18.9           .22.4            +29.0           .71.3           +22.,                +68.5
4.  Dene nt Pro5jt Rarlnie -d
Other 8ie-elleeneona  acetpr                          0.6            0.3              -               -                6.4             0.8              0.5                 0.3
5. Pmrelgn 9reeta                                           0.5            1.2              8.2             7.0            10.5              9.0            13.3                 18.1
6.  94rple AeeDOle for FIxaccime
rnetwo_  Dwe.+Jttc.e                                10.5            31.5            27.4             29.4            45.9             81.3            36.6                 86.9
7.  Oxel_er  teelre                                       61.8           67.4             94.2           126.3           124.7            190.2           220.3                236.9
8. O-rall Dftict                                          -53.3          -35.9            -66.8           -96.9            -78.7          -109.1          -183.7               -150.0
9.  tti+-" of cta  .ftlo-
lerernal LoeD                                        24.7           14.5             20.1            43.7            29.8             43.2            81.8                 96.6
D-^ti,:
Long-tern5 torrortax                                21.3           18.8            15.5             52.8            25.0             86.9            68.6                 36.6
Sort-cer. torrcintr,                                6.6             2.9            12.7             32.5            29.7            -29.3            68.5                 16.8
Gratea                                               0.02           -                -               -                -               -               --
Ch0 e   It C-h Bance                                 +1.5           +5.6            +18.4           +32.0            +5.8            -28.3            55.3
.7.xr  38, 1982



-27-
AINESX I
.00 I11  2,1                       I        II           I   
OcOol  S.0.40101.41.1010.00.01000.4                                   0o101           
os      00010f11f001o010101150    0100    01010100001                         '0.0
OIN01OIDN  00'i -   '- ~'   0100         0,0000001
r4 .010                   01000 COdI |_ -IN    01               N             IN _
gN            01      l40N00                 g010    g410   000= e°o   
3 _ X ~011-1 0101                             _1   01,1    I  q oNol400   00                0 mr  -
- tN410000    0 1_  5100   00-                                      Nt V  0      01             4   IOOOu      N 
0        | e    01    lNi E2wFibob       
0            1IN IIO0   1010                                 40100000                             00
141~~~~~ -   N    I                       ,      ,   L I '-        ,, rI0    
00
'0~ ~~~~~~~ N                              . \                   unFc  
0     01              01010000110   0010,00... 01  0101001010101                            01010
01~ ~~~~~~~~~~ 0\C:aSOXb\            U          9O0wOs  a                                    O            0
01-00000   0>,                t -t-o X   Oo-.o0t--,.. O1N   .
I                                .'~~~~~  0~
01  0   OIN0IN        H0~-   004'   4.41010-00                0001        O
1-01 010    001  01t-  4.4      I 0  I    '   I  01          r
.~~~~~~~~~~~~t0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    .
001"-  0  "I           0~~~~~~~~~~~
I     zze            e3zY.oI.o      .s-.   1.00
22a:10    3.00.. 5                        I.I0000e l 1-       g          WX  
e  _0    000000000o..log0000  00000000 0                                         _l



-28-
ANNEX I
KENYA
Debt 1/ and Creditworthiness
Actual
1976           1977           1978            1979
A.   Medium and Long-term Debt (Disbursed Only)
(US $ million)
1.   Total Debt Outstanding (DOD:  End of Period)                            100.5          917.1           1290.7         1616.7
2.   Including Undisbursed                                                  1331.2         1700.4           2343.7         2841.9
3.   Public Debt Service                                                     -49.4          -57-3           -121.9         -118.2
3.1  Interest                                                                -23.9          -32.4            -52.6          -68.2
4.   Other M & LT Debt Service
B.   Debt Burden
1.   Debt Service Ratio                                                        4.4            3.6              7.8            8.4
2.   Debt Service/GDP                                                          1.4            1.3              2.3            2.0
3.   Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                                    6.6            6.1             10.5            8.4
C.   Terms
1.   Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                                           3.4            3.5              4.1            4.2
2.   Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                              7.1            6.2              9.4            7.3
D.   Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt
1.   Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                                  15.9           16.1             17.5           23.3
2.   Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                                         11.6           12.1             14.2           19.6
3.   Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                                        72.6            75.2             81.0           84.3
E.   Exposure
1.   IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements                            37,0            44.5             14.6           10.7
2.   Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements                       15,0           22.6             20.1           16.4
3.   IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                                      24.2            37.7             25.2           22.2
4.   Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                                22.0            34.2            35.1            31 4
5.   IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                                    29.7            31.3             21.0           28.6
6.   Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                              31.5            33.2             22.1           29.9
/  Includes Kenya's share of a notional 50 percent of EAC debt.
EAN CPIA
January 26, 1981



- 29 -
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of January 31, 1981
US$ Million
Loan or                                                          A_Tunt (Less Cicellations)
Credit #   Year  Borrower   Purpose                            Bank-   TW    IDA-   Undisbursed
Thirteen (13) Loans and seventeen (17) Credits
fully disbursed                                 236.30         179.72
477       1974  Kenya       Livestock                                        21.50      14.35
993       1974  Kenya       Tea Factories                     10.40                      1.01
(1093      (1975 (Kenya      (Group Farm Rehabilitation          7.50                   ( 7.50
( 537      (1975 (Kenya      (Group Farm Rehabilitation                         7.50    ( 3.71
1105       1975  Kenya       Sites and Services                 8.00                     4.67
1133       1975  Kenya       Transportation - Pipeline         20.00                       .24
1167       1976  Kenya       Mombasa & Coastal Water Supply  35.00                       8.33
1184       1976  Kenya       Third Education                   10.00                     8.67
( 650      (1977 (Kenya       (Integrated Agri. Development                    10.00    ( 4.33
(1303-T    (1977 (Kenya       (Integrated Agri. Development           10.00             (10.00
1304-T     1977  Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                    17.00              12.41
( 651      (1977 (Kenya       (Rural Access Roads                               4.00    (  .87
(1305      (1977 (Kenya       (Rural Access Roads                4.00                   ( 4.00
1389       1977  Kenya       South Nyanza Sugar                25.00                     9.86
( 692      (1977 (Kenya      (Third Agriculture                                20.00      3.10
(1390-T     1977 (Kenya      (Third Agriculture                        5.00             ( 5.00
1438       1977  IDB         Third Industrial Dev. Bank        20.00                    10.69
( 722      (1977 (Kenya      (Bura Irrigation Settlement                        6.00    ( 1.97
(1449      (1977 (Kenya      (Bura Irrigation Settlement        34.00                    (34.00
750       1978  Kenya       Small Scale Industry                             10.00      9.56
1520       1978  NCC         Second Nairobi Water Supply       30.00                    25.62
( 791      (1978 (Kenya      (Second Urban                                     25.00    (23.71
(1550      (1978 (Kenya      (Second Urban                      25.00                   (25.00
797       1978  Kenya       Fourth Education                                 23.00     21.56
1636       1979  Kenya       Sugar Rehabilitation              72.00                    69.65
1637       1979  Kenya       Rural Water Supply                20.00                    19.89
858       1979  Kenya       Narok Agricultural Development                   13.00      12.52
1680       1979  Kenya       Telecommunications                20.00                    18.32
1684       1979  Kenya       Highway Sector                    90.00                    89.95
914       1979  Kenya       Smallholder Coffee Improvement                   27.00     27.00
959       1980  Kenya       Second Integrated Agri. Dev.                     46.00     46.00
962       1980  Kenya       Baringo Pilot                                     6.50       6.38
1799       1980  Kenya       Third Power (Olkaria Geothermal)40.00 2/                   30.90
1817       1980  IDB         Fourth Industrial Dev. Bank       30.00                    30.00
1045       1980  Kenya       Export Promotion                                  4.50      4.50
1051       1980  Kenya       Fisheries                                        10.00     10.00
Total                            737.20 32.00  413.72    615.27
of which has been repaid         35.33   -       1.94
Total now outstanding            701.87 32.00  411.78
Amount sold                11.81
of which has been repaid 11.64    .17
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA 1/          701.70 32.00  411.78
TOTAL undisbursed                          398.29 27.41  189.57    615.27
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/   Includes Loan S-12 ($9.0 million).



- 30 -
ANNEX II
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Involving
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of January 31, 1981
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year  Borrower  Purpose                   Bank 1/    Undisbursed
------US$ million-----
Six loans fully disbursed                           93.40
638-EA   1969   EAHC      Harbours                 35.00          0.52
674-EA   1970   EARC      Railways                 42.40          0.03
865-EA   1972   EAHC      Harbours                 26.50          0.35
914-EA   1972   EAPTC    Telecommunications        32.50          0.56
1204-EA   1976   EADB      Development Finance    15.00            4.84
Total                                          244.80          6.30
of which has been repaid                      62.69
Total now outstanding                          182.11
Amount sold                       24.36
of which has been repaid    24.36           0.00
Total now held by Bank 1/                      182.11
Total undisbursed                                6.30          6.30
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
C. Projects in Execution 1/
(As of January 31, 1981)
There are currently 31 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories Project: US$10.4 million Loan of
June 5, 1974; Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Although international tea prices have dropped from the
extraordinarily high figures in 1976/77, growers continue to show considerable
interest in tea as a cash crop. Yields continue to rise, and from 1979/80
onward the appraisal projections are likely to be exceeded. The project
factory building program has slipped further behind schedule primarily because
of late delivery of machinery from overseas. Due to cost escalations, funds
from the Bank and Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) loans will cover
only 12 of the 17 factories included in the project. However, the OPEC
Special Fund has agreed to finance the foreign exchange cost of 3 factories
under the project, and CDC has agreed to provide additional financing for the
remaining 2 factories. The delayed factory construction will mean that only
12 factories will be constructed by March 1981. CDC has brought forward their
Fourth Plan and the financing of factory extensions as the three OPEC
factories will not be operative until December 1982. The standard of Kenya
Tea Development Authority-s management continues to be high, and institutional
improvements together with strengthened staffing should further improve
performance. An economic analysis of the project indicates that despite
substantial cost increases the economic rate of return on investments in new
tea factories is over 40%. Although the Loan should be fully disbursed by the
Closing Date, the Project will not be completed until the OPEC factors are
operational. This indicates that the Project will continue to be supervised
after it is fully disbursed and closed.
Credit No. 477-KE - Second Livestock Project: US$21.5 million Credit
of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project implementation has been slow and recruitment of ranches is
very much behind appraisal estimates. In spite of the satisfactory livestock
price structure which was adopted in early 1978, removing a serious constraint
to ranch development and viability, recruitment of ranches continues to be
very slow. Some progress has been made in organization of the pastoralists
in the range development components. In addition, Government services in
ranch water development planning and in the company ranch sector have been
improved. Only two commercial ranch loans and eight company ranch loans were
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
approved in 1978/79, and the Agricultural Finance Corporation's disbursements
for coast company ranches, held up pending agreement on satisfactory security
arrangements, have been resolved. Group ranch loan processing also remains
slow, and unless there is a substantial improvement in extension services in
the pastoral areas, particularly in Masailand, the project goals of adoption
of more commercial and efficient livestock production will be difficult to
achieve.   The project continues to be kept under close review, and possible
modifications in project design, in order to improve prospects for achieving
objectives for the sub-sector, are being discussed with the Government.
Program modifications to enable the resolution of a number of policy and
implementation issues are being completed. It has been recommended and the
Government has requested an extension of the Closing Date by two years with a
cancellation of US$4.0 million of the total Credit requirement, following a
revision of the project cost estimate.
Loan No. 1093-KE/Credit No. 537-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project:
US$7.5 million Loan and US$7.5 million Credit of March 26, 1975;
Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Project faces major problems. Few new farms have come under
rehabilitation in the past several years for a variety of reasons: legal,
social, political, and financial. Physical rehabilitation work on participat-
ing mixed farms and coffee estates is generally satisfactory. Coffee estates
are achieving recoveries in yields, and mixed farms are generally expanding
areas cropped and improving grazing. However, achievement of a satisfactory
rate of financial rehabilitation on most mixed farms is in doubt. The recom-
mendations of the Large Farm Sector Study (financed under the Project) have
prompted Government to make a major review of its policies, and although
reaching a consensus has proved difficult, Government expects to take a
position on the large farm sector in the near future. The Bank and the
Government are jointly reviewing the original project objectives to determine
whether they can still be attained. In the interim, no further recruitment of
mixed farms will take place. Since it has become evident that full disburse-
ment of both the Loan and Credit cannot be achieved within the proposed
project period, the Government has requested the cancellation of the total
Loan amount.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation Project:
US$9.9 million 1/ Loan and US$10.0 million Credit of June 27, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Project is a continuation of the first Kenya Forestry Plantation
Project (Loan 641-KE), to complete the Government's target long-term afforesta-
tion program of 130,000 ha of sawlog and 24,000 ha of pulpwood plantations by
1980. The planting program is proceeding steadily; the cumulative total to
date is 37% below target, due to a variety of reasons, including bad weather
conditions and poor and deteriorating management. The building and labor
housing programs are both considerably behind schedule. There has been little
1/   Net of cancellation; an amount of US$0.1 million was cancelled on July
20, 1979 since items which were to have been financed under the loan
were not procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
progress in the implementation of most of the covenants of the Credit Agree-
ment, particularly regarding the sawmilling sector, the national land use
study, the gazetting of nature reserves, the study of stumpage rates for saw-
logs, and the timely submission of audited statements of accounts. Government
is now providing adequate budgetary allocations. Procurement is proceed-
ing normally. Disbursements and total Project expenditure are both ahead of
schedule. The Credit and the Loan are now fully disbursed. A Phase III
project has been appraised, with the emphasis moving to fuelwood plantations.
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural
Development Project: US$10.0 million Loan and US$10.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date:  March 15, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The changed focus of the project towards assisting large numbers
of subsistence farmers rather than progressive smallholder farmers has led to
a number of difficulties, but the objective of improving the productivity and
incomes of smallholder farmers continues to be met. Late release of credit
funds in the past led to delayed application of farm inputs and expected yield
increases were therefore not achieved; measures have now been taken to ensure
availability of credit funds at the appropriate time. Steps are also being
taken to improve the low rates of credit repayment and loanee reparticipation.
The overall balance between numbers of loanees and infrastructural support--
staff, storage and transport--at cooperative union level has been improving,
and active efforts continue to be made to improve input supplies and marketing
systems.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million
Loan of April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Agricultural development has advanced well and nucleus estate
development is 98% of target. Yields from outgrowers- cane have been higher
than anticipated probably because of excellent and well distributed rainfall
and heavy fertilizer applications. About 20% of the drainage component has
been completed, and the benefits can already be seen. Although several
components are slightly behind schedule, progress is generally satisfactory.
Now that sugar production has started, certain weaknesses in project manage-
ment are apparent, particularly cane handling and transport. Consultants are
being employed to rectify this problem. Improvement is also expected once the
General Manager takes up residence at the mill site.
Loan No. 1390T-KE/Credit No. 692-KE - Third Agricultural Credit Project:
US$5.0 million Loan and US$20.0 million Credit of April 15, 1977;
Effective Date: September 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Disbursements have been delayed because of a backlog in updating
loan reimbursement requests by the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC).
The lack of consolidated information on AFC's lending trends toward different
categories of farmers and the current high arrears situation also pose pro-
blems. However, the disbursement situation is improving, and cumulative
commitments in the smallholder and medium-scale farmer categories now account
for almost all funds available for on-lending under the project. An extension



- 34 -
ANNEX II
of the Closing Date by one year has been requested to complete disbursements
of the balance funds and subsequently increase smallholder credit amounts that
are on-lent from the funds.
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement
Project: US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22,
1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Despite a slow start-up, project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily. However, a detailed review of cost estimates indicates
that the Project will experience serious cost overruns; the revised estimate
is about twice the appraisal figure, and there seems to be little scope
for reduction. The Government has indicated that it will proceed with the
Project despite the significant burden on its finances, and is currently
reviewing its budget and seeking additional external assistance. No supple-
mentary IDA financing is proposed.
Loan No. 1636-KE - Sugar Rehabilitation Project: US$72.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: September 20, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Some progress has been made in equipment procurement, and selection
and appointment of consultants for factory rehabilitation, road works, drain-
age and irrigation. Coordination of project activities has improved consider-
ably, but a proposal, now under Government consideration, to withdraw execu-
tive power from the Kenya Sugar Authority could have a negative impact on
project implementation if brought into effect. Negotiations are underway
between the Government and two of the four participating sugar companies to
resolve outstanding legal and financial issues related to their participation
in the Project. If these issues are not resolved in a mutually satisfactory
way, project implementation may also be adversely affected.
Credit No. 858-KE - Narok Agricultural Development Project: US$13.0
million Credit of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Early stages of implementation are proceeding satisfactorily,
although slow progress in land adjudication will limit the number of farmers
eligible for loans during the first season. Engineering consultants have been
selected for the roads component.
Credit No. 914-KE - Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project: US$27.0
million Credit of June 11, 1979; Effective Date: April 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Principal project activities started slowly due to the lower than
estimated Government budgetary allocations to finance SCIP lending operations
for coffee factory rehabilitation/construction and farm improvements. However,
most project personnel are in post and it is expected that the Project will be
fully staffed by the end of 1980. Training has made good progress, but
training programs need to be expanded and accelerated. But whether Project
infrastructure, equipment and personnel wil be utilized in an optimal fashion
will depend on future Government funding of the Project.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 962-KE - Baringo Semi-Arid Areas Project: US$6.5 million
Credit of March 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 10, 1980;
Closing Date: October 31, 1984
This Credit became effective on June 10, 1980. Project implementa-
tion has begun satisfactorily, with staffing at more than 50% of the final
objective. Despite some problems with lack of water and housing (at Marigat)
and of vehicles, a number of research/demonstration sites have already been
established.
Credit No. 959-KE - Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project:
US$46.0 million Credit of April 23, 1980; Effective Date: July 2, 1980;
Closing Date: April 30, 1986.
This Credit became effective on July 2, 1980. IADP-II has inherited
the problems associated with the crop/credit component that have plagued
IADP-I. Part of the solution to these problems lies in upgrading the Ministry
of Cooperative Development (MOCD) by implementing the reorganization proposals
for MOCD. This has been delayed pending the outcome of the Governmental
Commission to review the Civil Service. IADP-II provides significantly more
support than IADP-I for infrastructure, including rural access roads, rural
water supplies, small-scale irrigation, and resource/soil conservation. Most
infrastructure components are in the planning stage with construction due to
start in 1981/82. Progress is satisfactory though implementation of some
components has been constrained by budgetary cuts to the Work Plan imposed by
the Treasury.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Physical implementation of the project is about two years behind
schedule and is now expected to be completed by about December 1982, six
months after the Closing Date. Government is taking measures to counter
cost overruns and difficulties in making available their financial
contributions by, inter alia, phasing activities in the project implementation
period. Achievements of educational project objectives continue to be satis-
factory, especially in the field of curriculum development for basic education.
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education Project: US$23.0 million Credit of
June 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 25, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Physical implementation of the project is basically satisfactory
and is expected to be completed as scheduled. Revised total project cost
increased to about KShs 300 million representing approximately 17% cost
overrun in terms of local currency, which is manageable. The Technical
Assistance program as well as the pursuance of educational objectives under
the Credit are proceeding satisfactorily.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply Project: US$35.0 mil-
lion Loan of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Substantial project completion is now forecast about May 1981,
29 months behind schedule. Moreover, some lesser project elements will not be
completed before September 1981. Although there is a substantial cost overrun,
this is not seen as a major problem since Government is fully committed to
earliest project completion and is providing the additional funds, 80% local
currency, as needed. Regarding key personnel vacancies requiring the Ministry
of Water Development's (MWD) attention, MWD is fully aware of this situation
and, while progress is slow, remedial action is being taken. The Water
Engineering Department of the MWD was able to start small scale operations, by
means of temporary arrangements, in December 1980 and helped eliminate
substantially Mombasa's water shortage during the 1980 year-end dry season.
The Closing Date has been postponed by two years to June 30, 1982.
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply Project: US$30.0 million
Loan of March 27, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation started on schedule but completion is now forecast
about 21 months behind schedule due to difficulties with tender evaluations
and delays by the Borrower in contract administration and in concluding
satisfactory arrangements for construction supervision. Most supply contracts
financed by other donors and the construction contracts being financed by
the Bank now have been awarded. Good progress is being made on detailed
design and tendering for the remaining contracts. Bid prices to date have
been favorable, but due largely to the delays there is an estimated increase
of 35% in local currency costs and 5% in total costs. Water supply and
sewerage operations are in sound financial condition. However, the Borrower
has been slow in fulfilling financial covenants pertaining to external audits.
Loan No. 1637-KE - Rural Water Supply Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: January 24, 1980;
Closing Date: July 1, 1985
With the introduction of new tariffs for rural water supply and
progress in appointments of key staff in the Ministry of Water Development
(MWD), this Loan became effective on January 24, 1980. The preparations for
the design and construction of the Project's thirty water supply schemes, for
bidding of transport equipment, and for the Ministry's reorganization are in
progress. The size of the individual water supply schemes will enable project
costs to remain at the appraisal level of US$30.5 million.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project:
US$20.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 3,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Construction was completed in October 1977 and commercial operations
commenced in January 1978 as originally planned. The final project cost
overrun is only US$9.5 million or 11%, the increase being primarily due to
escalation in construction costs. KPC's long-term financial prospects are
quite satisfactory although there could be cash flow problems in the initial
few years of operation because of the preponderance of short and medium-term
loans in the financing package. About 99% of the loan has been disbursed.
The Closing Date was postponed to December 31, 1980 to allow time for
completion of procurement of equipment related to the operation of the
pipeline. The project completion report has been completed.
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Progress on the Rural Access Roads Program (RARP) was reviewed in
depth by all donors and discussed with Government during the Annual Review
Meeting held in October 1980. The project is about two years behind schedule
due to administration and procurement problems which delayed establishment
of construction units. All eight Bank-financed construction units are fully
equipped, and are now operational, and satisfactorily staffed since these
problems were resolved in the beginning of 1978. By September 15, 1980, 646
km of access roads had been constructed, of which 135 km were gravelled due to
the above-mentioned delays and later to the labor shortage. The decline of
annual output and productivity of construction units, also due to a shortage
of labor, was increased from 30 km per annum to 33 km per annum primarily
because the Government granted a daily minimum wage increase that was proposed
by MOTC. The labor supply has been adequate since June 1980, following the
May wage increase.
Loan No. 1684-KE - Highway Sector Project: US$90.0 million Loan of
April 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 18, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Implementation of the Government s Highway Sector Plan has been
delayed by about one year because a critical shortage of funds has caused
a reduction in the highway work program. While this has not yet affected
the project appreciably, the continuation of this trend in FY81 could touch
projects included in the Sector Loan. The two contracts for construction of
Uplands-Limmuru (11 km) and Nairasha-Nakuru (56 km) were recently signed and
mobilization is satisfactory. The contracts for strengthening the Mau Summit-
Kisumu road (136 km) is being retendered while the Nakuru-Timboroa road (81
km) tender documents are completed. The remaining two subprojects, the
Nairobi-Thika and Longonot-Uplands roads, are under design. The regravelling
of gravel roads projections were achieved during the past two years (1979-80).
Resealing of paved roads is behind schedule with only 18% of the appraisal



- 38 -
ANNEX II
target accomplished due to shortage of bitumen and poor organization. Bitumen
is now being imported and four resealing units out of the six planned are
operational. The resealing operation is now progressing. The funds allocated
for road maintenance are about 15% below appraisal estimates but with better
organization and utilization of existing resources, the targets could be
achieved.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1799-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Power Project: US$40.0 million
Loan of April 25, 1980, Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This Loan became effective on November 18, 1980. This includes the
US$9.0 million for the Engineering Loan (S-12-KE) which was refinanced under
this project. Progress under the engineering Loan has been satisfactory.
Drilling is proceeding on schedule; fabrication of the new drill rig and
accessories has been completed, and erection of the rig at the site is
expected to be completed by the end of the year. Miscellaneous supplies and
equipment have been purchased under International Shopping procedures.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: US$20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date: November 10, 1977;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
This loan was declared effective on November 19, 1977. Seventeen sub-
projects have been approved. As at January 31, 1981, US$19.9 million had been
committed and US$10.7 million had been disbursed.
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) is making efforts to improve its slow
implementation rate and high arrears of clients. IDA is seeking Government
assistance to correct two deficiencies in KIE's finances subsequent to the
transfer of a loan portfolio from another DFC: (i) the lack of compensation
for the doubtful debts in the portfolio, and (ii) a debt/equity ratio much
in excess of the agreed ceiling since 1979. As of January 31, 1981, US$2.25
million was committed for subloans and some technical assistance to 39
subprojects (none for estate construction), but only US$436,000, had been
disbursed. About half of the commitments were for four subprojects with the
remainder allocated to smaller free-limit subprojects.
Loan No. 1817-KE - Fourth Industrial Development Bank Project: US$30.0
million Loan of June 16, 1980; Effective Date: August 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
This Loan became effective on August 21, 1980. Two subprojects have
been approved under the Loan to date. As at January 31, 1981, US$0.9 million
had been committed and no disbursements had been made.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 1045-KE - Export Promotion Technical Assistance Project:
US$4.5 million Credit of July 14, 1980, Effective Date: October 15,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This Credit became effective on October 15, 1980.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Loan No. 1680-KE - First Telecommunications Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of April 11, 1979; Effective Date: August 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Bid award recommendations for all Bank-financed goods have been
approved. Initial delays in procurement of goods are likely to cause about a
year's delay in project completion. Kenya Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation (KPTC) has completed the installation of a total of 930 lines of
extension equipment in seven manual exchanges using its own funds. The
balance installation, 1,120 lines, is scheduled for completion by September
1981.
URBAN SECTOR
Loan No. 1105-KE/Credit No. 543-KE - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Loan and US$8.0 million Credit of May 6, 1975; Effective
Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Overall project execution continues to be satisfactory but there are
mounting delays in implementation causing a slippage of two years due primarily
to construction delays. Infrastructure has been completed for the first 1,000
plots and most beneficiaries have constructed satisfactory houses. Infrastruc-
ture for an additional 2,700 plots is about 30% complete and construction of
infrastructure for the remaining 2,300 plots is expected to begin soon. Cost
recovery continues to be good. One primary school is now operational, but
designs for the remaining schools are behind schedule. One health center
is under construction; however, the Bank does not plan to disburse against
its costs as its design was too expensive and was not approved by the Bank.
The design of the other health center should be submitted for approval soon.
Tenders have been invited for all other community facilities. Technical
assistance components are completed or scheduled for completion in conjunction
with the project. Project costs for the first phase remain close to appraisal
estimates but are expected to exceed original estimates for the remaining
components because of delays incurred. The credit is fully disbursed and
disbursements under the loan have started. Although loan disbursements are
expected to increase rapidly now that the construction activities are pro-
gressing satisfactorily, the Closing Date has been extended one year.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1550-KE/Credit No. 791-KE - Second Urban Project: US$25.0
million Loan and US$25.0 million Credit of May 5, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress in implementation of physical components of the project is
generally satisfactory. Consultants for detailed design and engineering of
Phase I sites in all three cities (Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu) are making
good progress. Appointment of consultants for Phase II sites has now been
completed and design work is underway. The Housing Development Departments
are operational in all three cities with most key posts filled. Recruitment
of other staff is underway. Progress on studies included in the project
is slower than expected. Municipal finance reforms have been delayed pending
Cabinet approval of a paper on the subject.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million Loan
of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
After initial delays, project implementation is accelerating.
Officers for the Project Management Unit have been appointed, and six key
Wildlife Planning Unit positions have been filled.  The Ministry of Transport
and Communications has appointed various consultants for the design and
construction of all physical project components. The Tourism Pricing Study
and the very Large Herbivores Study have been completed, and recommendations
contained in these two studies are under review by the Government. The
anti-poaching units are fully staffed and deployed, and initial effectiveness
of the units appears satisfactory. Draft amendments to the Wildlife (Con-
servation and Management) Act of 1976 to fulfill the requirements of the
supplementary letter giving detailed proposals for anti-poaching operations
have been approved by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources and
are now in the final stages of processing.
East African Community
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this Annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
674-EA and 865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated
to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified under
the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness:  December 16, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: April 16, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single buoy tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school building
and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths and
a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities and a
training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in Tanga.
Construction of all major project elements has been completed and a' joint
project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of shortage
of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have not
been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of the
lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; and modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has generally improved with increasing throughput; however, port
labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority
and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of ports in both
countries is competent. Some US$34.5 million of Loan 638-EA and US$26.2 mil-
lion of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is
given below:
For Loan No. 638-EA             (US$ million)
Kenya                            0.7
Tanzania                         0.6
Total                       1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                            1.7
Tanzania                         0.3
Total                       2.0



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: US$42.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness: October 30, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to be
used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material. All
three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Railway
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the countries concerned is given below:
Kenya                2.0
Tanzania             3.8
Uganda               1.9
Total                7.7
This Loan is now fully disbursed except for US$27,000 of the amount allocated
to Kenya; this amount is expected to be disbursed shortly.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items, except the microwave radio system, have
been completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The
slippage in the project's completion was due to initial delays in procurement
caused by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of
headquarters. About US$31.9 million of the loan has now been disbursed.
The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977 among the
countries concerned is as follows:
(US$ million)
Kenya                2.4
Tanzania             3.5
Uganda               0.1
Total                6.0



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from
50% as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of June 30, 1980. Some US$10.1 million of
the loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to
US$1.9 million. The closing date has been postponed to June 30, 1981 to
allow completion of the project.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN KENYA AS AT
January 31, 1981
Fiscal Year        Obligor               Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968
and 1973        Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels                5.2     0.7      5.9
1970, 1974,
1977 and 1979  Pan African Paper Mills  Pulp and Paper    17.2         6.3    23.5
1972            Tourism Promotion
Services                 Hotels               2.4      -       2.4
1976            Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                     Textiles             6.3     2.8      9.1
1977           Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                     Capital Market       2.0      -       2.0
1980           Development Finance        Development           -      1.3      1.3
Company of Kenya Ltd.      Finance
Total Gross Commitments                   33.1    11.1    44.2
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                    11.9      1.8    13.7
Total Commitments now held by IFC         21.2      9.3    30.5



- 45 -
ANNEX III
KENYA
RAILWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:   10 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:   Kenya Railways Corporation (KR)
(c)  First Presentation to Bank:        January 1979
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:  September 1979
(e)  Completion of negotiations:        September 1980
(f)  Loan effectiveness planned:        August 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) A consultant, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
has been retained by KR to study the present tariff structure and
design a traffic costing system. The results and recommendations
of the study would be implemented by July 1, 1981 (para. 75).
(b) On completion of the Road User Charge Study, financed under the
Highway Sector Loan (Ln. 1684-KE), the consultants recommendations
would be implemented by January 1, 1982 (para. 38).
(c) The Borrower and KR shall take all measures, including but not
limited to tariff adjustments, to ensure that the working ratio
does not exceed 70% commencing January 1, 1982 (para. 76).
(d) KR shall consult semi-annually with the Borrower and the Bank
on the adequacy of the Investment Plan (1981-83), and, if
necessary, make such revisions as may be agreed upon on the
basis of economic, financial and technical studies. In addition
the Borrower, shall periodically review and discuss with the
Bank any future investments in the railway sector which it
proposes to undertake (para. 73).



- 46 -
ANNEX III
(e) KR will take all necessary steps to achieve the proposed
operational targets (para. 68).
(f) The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and KR acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition
of effectiveness of the Bank loan (paras. 65 and 82).



eqG    RAa                                                                                 07        :.            W0        0:        ;i                       f>   ;5      95        f      
Si       -r                                                                                                                                                                     Sd_I3        : Si  : N1i WQ¶A 2      D>
W           <0 -./ A';                                                                              SE fLE S;:;Se i       ff C                                                                      f
- ~ ~ ~     ~ OVN C,I                                                                                  j       ;   ;     \      ;       ; i;          :   }    t;   4       ;   4       ,  t 
3,   @  \20';!  l07;': ;  0 0, tW58++>3w>^7t5A1200_._._;;( ;,;ffi.~~~~i~OCi~vooi'~i& XVkC
~~~~~~~~~~~X   I^     ;tC6flFM033SCVA*3 IC CII..........= 5 ..... 
.  NV /GMfwJ                              jJovO, f                                                                                  ;i     i f           }.  5        b I.;j3                             i 
'* ZV3 *W  ,,   f i -                          s|                    1-; ;p      g;  i       ;             - 8           S  sw  l-lsaœor; E   3               4          5;~~~~~~~~b~
;fi6VVWlt/9*VR'VWWl~~~~~~~~ f                                                                                                                                 w   ;     tobgL    3   
t f . 3 P K f N f   V 3   V V              \  \                       \    i     2     i    !   t =   i         '    g   f W V 1 C 1 9 3 $ i N f   f f     g   I   r/
nf f l <~~~~-                                                                                                                    0 7C' f f   
aS t 0\. AS t.X E s~~~~~N, .                                                                             - -..  ;
/                                      ,,                                                                                                      N-i-wv^                   \\= z:a=     E 
/                                                       PL'Nr                                                                                                                 
- ~   ~         ~        ~        4 \.  /                                                                  -3LfS    ,SI   ,r?i



