Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19960
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3 166-POL)
December 21, 1999
Private and Financial Sector Development Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of September 1, 1999)
Currency Unit  =       PLN
PLN 1.0       =      US$ 0.39
PLN 3.9       =      US$ 1.0
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Zloty/lUS$
1990    1991   1992    1993   1994    1995    1996   1997  June 1998
9,500  11,100   13,630  17,000 22,720   2.43      2.70   3.28      3.4
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BG                  -    Bank Gdanski
BPH                 -    Bank Przemyslowo-Handlowy
BZ                  -    Bank Zachodni
ETP                 -    Economic Transformation Program
EU                  -    European Union
FIDL                -    Financial Institutions Development Loan
IBRD                -    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                 -    Industrial Development Agency
IT                  -    Information Technology
MOF                 -    Ministry of Finance
NBP                 -    National Bank of Poland
PKO-BP              -    Powszechna Kasa Oszczednosci (Housing Bank)
PPF                 -    Project Preparation Facility
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:  Johannes Linn    ECAVP
Country Director:    Basil Kavalsky    ECCO9
Sector Manager:    Ilham Zurayk  ECSPF
Task Teamn Leader:   George Park  ECCPL



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Loan 3166-POL)
Contents
Preface   .. . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..
Evaluation Summary .............................                                                 ii
Part I Project Implementation Assessment ..............................1
A. Project Objectives                                    .I
B. Achievement of Objectives                                 .2
C.    Implementation Record and Major Factor's Affecting the Project          .3
D. Project Sustainability                                 .9
E. Bank Performance                                      .9
F. Borrower's Performance .12
G. Assessment of Outcome .12
HI.  Recommendations for Future Operations .13
I. Key Lessons Learned .13
J. Conclusion .14
Part II Statistical Tables:
Table 1  Summary of Assessment .15
Table 2. Related Bank Loans .17
Table 3. Project Timetable .18
Table 4.    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual                .19
Table 5.  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .19
Table 6.  Key Indicators for Project Operation .19
Table 7A  Studies Included in Project .20
Table 7B. Subprojects Financed .21
Table 8A. Project Costs .22
Table 8B. Project Financing .22
Table 9.  Economic Costs and Benefits .22
Table 10  Status of Legal Covenants .23
Table 11.    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .24
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff hiputs .24
Table 13. Bank Resources: Missions .25
Appendix:
Borrower contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Loan 3166-POL)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Industrial Export
Development Project in Poland, for which a loan in the amount of US$260 million
equivalent was approved on February 6, 1990, and made effective on May 8, 1990.
At the request of the Borrower, the remaining uncommitted balance of the loan
totaling US$20 million was canceled as of June 3, 1998, thus closing the loan about two
years earlier than the revised closing date of June 30, 2000 agreed to in June 1997. This
compares with the original closing date of June 30, 1996. During the life of the loan the
Borrower requested cancellations totaling US$184,132,747.05, leaving a total loan of
US$75,867,252.95. All unpaid principal was prepaid in July 1998.
The ICR was prepared by George Park. It was reviewed by Ilham Zurayk, Sector
Manager (ECSPF) and Basil Kavalsky, Country Director for Poland and the Baltic States.
The Borrower provided comments that are included as an appendix to the ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Loan 3166-POL)
Evaluation Summary
i.   The US$260 million loan for the Industrial Export Development Project (IEDP),
together with the US$100 million loan for the Agro-industrial Export Development
Project (both approved in February 1990), comprised the first two loans made to Poland
after it rejoined the Bank in 1986. Both were part of a major program of assistance which
the Bank quickly put in place to provide strong international backing for Poland's
Economic Transformation Program (ETP), which Poland's first post-communist
government launched in late 1989. As a result of this effort over US$1.0 billion in loans
were made to Poland during calendar yearl990, the first full year of the ETP.
ii.  IEDP's main objective was developing Poland's industrial production by financing
modernization and restructuring projects in public and private enterprises through a
US$245 million credit line component. The initial emphasis was on financing export
industry, but this was subsequently broadened to include financing for productive
investment in industry generally. The project also provided US$15 million in technical
assistance to strengthen the banking system and finance advisory services to study
enterprise restructuring needs and design approaches for privatization and restructuring.
Implementation of the technical assistance component was generally satisfactory.
However, demand for the credit line turned out to be much less than expected. As a
consequence only 30 percent of the credit component was disbursed for 23 subprojects.
iii. Weak demand for the credit resulted largely from the uncertain macroeconomic
environment during the early years of the economic transition, as marked by the
slowdown in industrial production during 1990-1992 and high inflation. Although many
private companies were willing to invest, in many cases these firms had no established
relationship with commercial banks, found it difficult to meet tough collateral
requirements, and were reluctant to borrow in foreign exchange given the difficulties they
faced in judging market prospects and uncertainty surrounding exchange rate policy.
Public sector companies also faced multiple uncertainties as their markets for traditional
products disappeared and they confronted increasing financial problems.  In these
circumstances enterprises were reluctant to take on new debt to expand and improve
industrial capacity, especially during the early years of the economic transition. There
were also constraints on the part of participating banks. These banks were faced with
deteriorating portfolios and were undergoing considerable policy and institutional change
as they adjusted to their new role in the market economy. Consequently, they were not
interested in doing medium- and long-term lending and preferred to put their money in
essentially risk-free, high-yield government paper. In addition, the banks remained
highly liquid, including in foreign exchange, and if they did lend, preferred to lend using



iii
their own resources. Complex subproject appraisal and processing requirements also
discouraged potential sub-borrowers, especially since neither the participating banks nor
the potential borrowers were familiar with the Bank's requirements.
iv. The credit component as appraised, included a pipeline of seven preapproved
subprojects, which were expected to use close to 60 percent of the credit-line. However,
a number of these subprojects did not materialize or were substantially scaled back. This
meant that an even greater burden was placed on participating banks to find new
investments that could be financed. Confronted with lagging demand, the National Bank
of Poland (NBP) and the Bank simplified subproject preparation and procurement
procedures, took steps to actively promote the project with banks and potential sub-
borrowers and offered training in project preparation and appraisal. However, these
efforts had only a limited impact on loan utilization and, at NBP's request, about US$127
million of the loan was canceled during 1996 and 1997.
v.  In an effort to find alternative uses for the proceeds of the loan, NBP and the
Ministry of Finance requested the Bank to expand the technical assistance component to
include support for large integrated automation investments in two commercial banks,
since adequate funding for this purpose was not available under the Financial Institutions
Development Project. An amendment to this effect was approved by the Board in June
1997, but in the end did not result in any further disbursement. Both of the commercial
banks concerned ran into procurement difficulties and experienced problems in coming
up with the correct technical solution to meet their business needs. As a result neither of
the two banks were able to go ahead with their investments, thus resulting in the
cancellation of an additional US$57 million from the loan. In the end, only about 30
percent of the loan was disbursed for both the technical assistance and credit components
and the rest canceled.
vi.  As a result of the limited success in disbursing the credit portion of the project,
several conclusions emerge: (a) during a period of intense economic restructuring where
significant economic uncertainties exist, it is very difficult to accurately assess sector
financing needs and the demand for credit. In such circumstances it would be better to
start with a smaller (pilot) line of credit to test and perfect the credit delivery system and
establish a more solid basis for assessing real demand; (b) lending through an apex
institution provides flexibility in the timing of selecting and qualifying participating
banks-which is particularly important when the banks are being restructured-but the
added layer does increase the cost of credit to the final borrower and may result in lower
demand. Therefore, prior to making a decision on an apex institution, one should look
carefully at the possibility of lending directly to creditworthy commercial banks; and (c)
when working with new borrowers, including sub-borrowers, and intermediaries who
have limited experience with Bank procedures and subproject appraisal techniques, one
needs to simplify subproject appraisal procedures as much as possible and ensure
sufficient technical support.  With respect to the additional banking automation
component, the problems experienced during implementation suggest that the Bank's
procurement rules--which require the procurement package to identify a very specific
package of goods and services--are not well suited to the purchase of integrated banking
automation systems, since the rules make it difficult for a commercial bank to adjust



iv
quickly to changes in its business objectives, which impacts on its automation needs, and
to rapid changes in technology.
vii. Given the low utilization of the credit line, the project only partially achieved its
main objective of fostering industrial exports and more broadly industrial production. In
this context it is rated as unsatisfactory. Nevertheless, even though the project fell short
of achieving its principal objective, the industrial subprojects that were financed were
successfully implemented and the technical assistance component provided important
assistance in helping develop Poland's industrial restructuring and privatization
initiatives during the initial years of the Economic fransformation Program.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3166-POL)
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
Introduction
1.   On February 6, 1990, the Board of Executive Directors approved a loan of US$260
million to the National Bank of Poland (NBP) for the Industrial Export Development
Project (IEDP).  This loan, together with a loan for the Agro-industrial Export
Development Project (approved the same day), were the first two loans made to Poland
after it rejoined the Bank in 1986. The loans were approved shortly after Poland initiated
its far-reaching Economic Transformation Program (ETP) under the first post-communist
government. Both were part of a much larger program of assistance initiated in early
1990 to support implementation of the reforms, help restore economic stability and pave
the way for renewed growth.'
A.  Project Objectives
2.   The Industrial Export Development Project (IEDP) had four principal objectives:
(i) improving the convertible currency trade balance of Poland by increasing the volume,
quality and value-added of industrial exports to convertible currency markets; (ii)
improving the banking system, in particular by providing training in modem banking
practices; (iii) preparing restructuring programs and identifying restructuring needs in
industry; and (iv) supporting the development of the private sector. The initial emphasis
on the export industry was subsequently amended to include support for industry in
general, thus providing more flexibility in the use of the proceeds of the loan. To achieve
these objectives, the project included two components: (a) a US$245 million line of credit
to finance investments in state-owned and private industrial enterprises; and (b) a US$15
million technical assistance component to strengthen the banking system, improve
banking supervision, carry out studies for the restructuring and privatization of ailing
enterprises, and support measures to stimulate private sector development. In June 1997,
the Board agreed to expand the banking institutional strengthening objective to include
financing of major automation investments by two banks (Bank Gdanski and Bank
Zachodni), since funding available under the Financial Institutions Development Project
(FIDL) was insufficient for this purpose. As a result of this amendment, the total amount
allocated for technical assistance was increased to US$65.7 million, of which US$58.7
million was to be used for financing banking automation investments.
1 Bank lending to Poland in calendar year 1990 totaled US$ 1.1 billion, including IEDP (US$260.0 million),
Agro-industrial Exports (US$100.0 million), Environmental Management (US$18.0 million), Transport
(US$153.0 million), Energy Resources Development (US$250.0 million), and SAL I (US$300.0 million).



2
3.   At the beginning of its economic transformation to a market economy, Poland
faced the enormous challenge of both restructuring and privatizing existing state-owned
enterprises, as well as promoting the rapid growth and development of new private
companies. In this context, Bank support for industrial development and modernization,
including associated technical assistance to support banking sector modernization and
industrial restructuring, was warranted and consistent with Poland's needs and the Bank's
country assistance strategy. Nevertheless, as explained in more detail below, while the
project's objectives made good sense, it turned out to be much more difficult than
expected to generate sufficient demand for the credit line from participating banks and
potential sub-borrowers.   As a consequence, the project experienced  serious
implementation constraints.
B.  Achievement of Objectives
4.   Utilization of the credit line was considerably lower than both the Government and
the Bank had expected. The project, therefore, only partially achieved its main objective
of fostering industrial exports and, more broadly, industrial production. Indeed from
project startup in 1990 through mid-1995, when the last commitment was made, only 23
subprojects were approved by five participating banks, resulting in total disbursements of
US$66.8 million from the credit line. While this is still a significant amount, it represents
less than 30 percent of the original allocation of US$245 million for credit. When the
project was first appraised in late 1987, close to 80 percent of the credit component was
expected to be used to finance nine preappraised subprojects, leaving a relatively small
amount of the credit line for investments that had not yet been identified. By the time of
the reappraisal (September 1989), however, three of the preappraised subprojects had
dropped out (having found alternative financing), leaving about 40 percent of the credit
component available for new subprojects. In the end, less than 20 percent of the original
credit component was disbursed for the original pre-appraised subprojects. This meant
that, in practice, full utilization of the credit line depended much more heavily than
initially planned on generating sufficient demand for the credit line from both
participating banks and industrial enterprises.
5.   This shift in the way the credit line was to be implemented turned out to be quite
important, since the uncertain and difficult economic environment during the initial
stages of Poland's economic transition, including the slowdown in industrial production
during 1990 to 1992, sharply reduced demand for the line of credit. These economic
developments, together with high inflation and high interest rates, dampened the interest
of existing and new industrial investors in expanding and improving industrial capacity.
At the same time, participating banks were faced with deteriorating portfolios and were
undergoing considerable policy and institutional changes as they adjusted to their new
role in the market economy. Hence, they did not actively seek medium/long term
lending, preferring to put their money in essentially "risk-free," high-yield governmnent
paper. Moreover, the banks continued to be highly liquid, including in foreign exchange,
and when they did lend, preferred to lend their own resources. In addition to these
systemic factors, subproject appraisal and processing requirements discouraged potential
borrowers, especially since neither the participating banks nor the potential sub-
borrowers were familiar with the Bank's requirements.



3
6.  Implementation of the technical assistance component did not run into the same
problems. Close to US$6.9 million was disbursed for advisory services to strengthen the
capabilities of the main institutions involved in privatization and industrial restructuring
(especially the Ministry of Privatization--now Ministry of the Treasury, the Ministry of
Industry and Trade--now part of the Ministry of Economy, and IDA--the Industrial
Development Agency), including carrying out specific studies to identify restructuring
needs in selected industries (such as heavy chemicals and steel). Although the results of
the advisory work and studies were not always fully utilized or became outdated as
restructuring efforts were delayed, the technical assistance financed under the loan
supported the design of policies and approaches for industrial restructuring and
privatization and helped Poland launch its industrial restructuring effort.
7.   The provision of technical assistance to banks under the banking support
component, as originally designed, also proceeded satisfactorily. A limited amount of
support was provided to help strengthen NBP's banking supervision activities (financed
from the PPF) and about US$2.1 million was used to finance the initial automation needs
of one of the participating banks. However, the additional financing allocated to finance
automation investments in Bank Gdanski and Bank Zachodni was never used, as both
banks ran into procurement and timing problems which led eventually to the cancellation
of their sub-loans and cancellation of the remaining balance of the loan by NBP. The
additional objective of financing banking automation (which was added when the project
was restructured in 1997) was therefore not achieved.
8.   Despite the limited use of the credit line, the project did focus attention on
industrial sector restructuring needs and issues at an early stage of Poland's economic
transition. It also served as a vehicle for introducing the banks and industrial sector to
market-based, subproject appraisal techniques.  In addition, the industrial sector
analytical work, which was carried out before and during project implementation, helped
identify modernization and restructuring requirements for key industries and industrial
subsectors. When looked at in this broader context, the project did make a satisfactory
contribution to private sector development and industrial restructuring, despite the less
than satisfactory outcome in terms of the number of enterprises actually supported and in
terms of the arnount of loan funds disbursed. Moreover, the project paved the way for
subsequent bank assistance in the industrial and banking sectors.
C.  Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
9.   Project preparation was initiated in March 1987 and the project was first appraised
in November 1987 in anticipation of an agreement between Poland and the IMF on a
macroeconomic policy framework and recovery program which would pave the way for
lending from the international community. In the absence of such an agreement the
project was put on hold. However, preparatory work continued in the form of an
industrial sector study (completed in mid-1989) and further efforts to identify, prepare,
and update industrial subprojects for eventual funding out of the proposed loan. With the
significant political and economic changes that took place during 1989, prospects for
lending to Poland improved sharply. As a consequence, the project was reappraised in
September 1989, negotiated in December 1989 and approved by the Board in February
1990, a few months after Poland's Economic Transformation Program was launched.



4
Credit Component
10.   The credit component included a pipeline of seven pre-approved subprojects,
which were expected to utilize US$141 million '(or about 57 percent) of the US$245
million credit component, with the remaining US$104 million to be used to help finance
additional subprojects to be appraised by the participating banks. When preparing the
credit component, the team which carried out the reappraisal was aware of a number of
implementation risks which could affect subproject preparation and utilization of the
credit line. One concern was that the Government's economic transition and recovery
program, by introducing major adjustments in the economic and business environment,
could cause implementation delays by slowing investment decisions, thus adversely
affecting project benefits. There was also a concern that the identification and appraisal
of new subprojects would be delayed because of the limited experience of participating
banks in carrying out subproject appraisals, especially since many of the banks had only
recently been established as a result of the break up of the old central bank. However,
these risks were believed to be manageable. The pre-approved investments were to be
carried out by some of the largest and strongest enterprises which had good potential and
had been well screened. Moreover, assuming the pre-approved projects did go ahead as
planned, close to 60 percent of the loan would have already been committed. At the same
time, the technical assistance program was designed to work with banks to improve their
operational capacity, including developing their project appraisal capability.
11. The actual implementation experience turned out quite differently. When the
project was first designed, the economy was subject to foreign exchange shortages,
rationing and controls. By the time the project was approved, however, the economic
situation had begun to change radically as a result of the rapid opening up and
liberalization of the economy under the ETP. This sharply changed the economic
environment in which enterprises had to operate, as foreign exchange shortages began to
disappear and new markets and products became available. As a consequence, many of
the industrial investments included in the initial pipeline of projects were ultimately
dropped or required major adjustments before they could be implemented. Moreover, it
quickly became apparent that new investment projects would be much more difficult to
identify and prepare than initially expected, due in part to the reluctance of firms to take
on new investment and debt in a very uncertain macro and industrial sector environment,
but also in part to the lack of familiarity with Bank sub-loan conditionality and
procurement procedures. In these circumstances, faced with lagging demand, NBP and
the Bank began quite early on to look for ways to make the credit line more user-friendly
and more attractive. At the same time, recognizing that the credit line might not be fully
used in a timely fashion, NBP and the Bank also began exploring alternative uses for the
proceeds of the loan, mainly to expand the technical assistance and banking support
component.
12. To increase demand for the credit line and make it more attractive for both
borrowers and the participating banks, three types of changes were introduced. First, the
initial restriction limiting project financing to activities which were export-oriented was
dropped. At the time the project was designed, it was thought that export competition
would provide some assurance that the loan funds would be used by more efficient
enterprises. But with the rapid growth in the private sector, liberalization of prices and
growing competition in the economy, this restriction was no longer seen as relevant.



5
Thus the loan was amended to include financing for all productive investments. In
addition, activities eligible for financing were expanded to include free-standing working
capital and leasing of equipment. Secondly, procurement requirements were simplified.
For investments by private sector companies, commercial practice was allowed for
packages up to US$2.0 million. Use of international shopping was also expanded to
cover contracts from US$1 million to US$5 million. Thirdly, procedural requirements
were simplified. The requirement that sub-borrowers generate sufficient export earnings
from the investment to cover the direct foreign exchange costs was eliminated. The use
of simplified appraisal procedures, which had been limited to small investments up to
US$100,000, was expanded to cover investments up to US$300,000.
13. The Bank and NBP also took a variety of actions to promote the project with banks
and potential investors and provide relevant training, including holding a series of
seminars. In addition, substantial efforts were undertaken to strengthen the operational
capacity of the banks and provide training on appraisal techniques and the Bank's
procedures and requirements. Despite these efforts, credit line utilization did not improve
significantly.
14. During the 1993 Annual Meetings, the slow progress in credit line utilization was
one of the major issues discussed with the Polish Delegation, including the question of
whether IEDP and other credit lines should be restructured or portions canceled. At that
time, however, NBP still felt that new subprojects would and could be developed by
participating banks and it argued for a continuation of the project using the same
approach, with the exception of further changes to make the credit line more attractive
(as also indicated above). In spite of these actions, further significant lending did not
materialize and following a mid-1995 survey of participating banks, NBP concluded that
there was no further demand for the credit line. Consequently, at NBP's request
US$127.5 million of the loan was canceled during 1996 and 1997 and the remaining
funds transferred to an expanded technical assistance component to finance banking
automation.
Technical Assistance Component
15. The technical assistance component, as initially designed, had three sub-
components.
a)    The first sub-component was a program of technical support to NBP to
develop the organization, policies and procedures of NBP's Banking Supervision
Department, coupled with training of staff from NBP and participating banks on
project analysis and project supervision. Support in both of these areas was
provided by Bank staff directly. Training in banking supervision was also
supported by the Office of the Comptroller and the Currency of the United States
and the Federal Reserve and subsequently by the IMF. The additional external
support helped hold down costs. As a result, funding under a PPF for the project
was sufficient and the additional US$500,000 originally allocated in the project for
training technical assistance was not needed.
b)   The second sub-component, with an allocation of US$4.0 million (later
increased to US$ 11 million) was to be used to assist the Government, especially the



6
Ministries of Privatization, Trade and Industry and the Industrial Development
Agency, to develop strategies for economic restructuring, including policy and
procedures for restructuring of the industrial sector and selected subsectors. This
part of the technical assistance component was utilized to a significant degree, with
disbursements totaling US$6.8 million. The remaining balance of US$4.2 million
was subsequently canceled, in large part because of the availability of other funding
for technical assistance for the Ministry of Privatization, including grant funding
from the EU PHARE program, and support under the Privatization and
Restructuring Project (Loan 3342-POL), which became effective in November
1991.
c)   A third sub-component, with an allocation of US$2.0 million, was to be used
to finance development programs in participating banks to strengthen their
organization and functions. This initial allocation was used to finance automation
investments in one of the participating banks. In addition, as explained below, the
banking support component was enlarged substantially to provide assistance in
financing major programs of banking automation, which could not be fully
financed under the Financial Institutions Development Project (Loan 3341 -POL).
Financing of Bank Automation
16. With the opening up of the Polish economy and the breakup of the centralized
banking system  in 1989/90, Poland faced the enormous task of restructuring,
modernizing and eventually privatizing both its specialized foreign trade, savings and
agriculture banks, as well as the nine new regional banks which were formed from the
old central bank. As the first loan for the banking sector, IEDP's technical assistance
component aimed at providing limited assistance to facilitate utilization of the credit line
by participating banks and begin the process of banking modernization. The provision of
much more substantial technical and financial support for institutional development of
the banks, including financing of automation, was left to the Financial Institutions
Development Loan (FIDL), approved in June 1991. That operation included US$8.0
million to finance twinning arrangements between Polish and European banks and
US$42.0 million to help finance investments in automation. The intention was to finance
only the most urgent basic automation needs of the regional banks as a first stage of
development, leaving larger and more complex investments to a second stage which the
banks would finance themselves or together with their private partners.
17. However, the regional banks opted for a faster, one-stage approach, arguing that
they needed to move quickly to develop and install fully integrated automation systems if
they were to remain competitive. Since the US$42.0 million in financing for automation
investments included under FIDL was inadequate for this purpose, NBP proposed quite
early on (1992) to reallocate a substantial portion of the credit line allocation to the
banking support component to provide additional financing for automation. An initial
reallocation of US$30 million was approved by the Bank in late 1992, with the
understanding that additional funds would be reallocated at a later date, as soon as the
commercial banks' investment needs were clarified and NBP made a formal request to
the Bank.



7
18. The three banks proposed for financing from the IEDP loan (Bank Pomorski, Bank
Zachodni of Wroclaw, and Bank Gdanski) started preparing their automation investments
in 1992 and 1993 using a two-stage tender process, which is recommended for the
purchase of complex information technology systems at competitive prices. The first
stage requires suppliers to submit technical bids corresponding to the functional
requirements of the banks. The selected bidders then fine-tune their bids and make a
second offer during the second stage which includes both their technical and commercial
proposals. Given the complexity of the integration systems being purchased, the fact that
the functional requirements kept changing as the banks revised their business plans and
goals and the fact that information technology (IT) itself was also constantly being
improved and upgraded, all three banks found it difficult to reach a final decision on what
to buy. As a consequence, the tender evaluation process stretched over several years and
the banks delayed formalizing their sub-loan agreements with NBP. Despite these
difficulties, all three remained interested in obtaining financing from the Bank, in part
because of the technical support for the IT preparation process that we were able to
provide, but also because the funding under the loan was VAT-free by decision of the
Ministry of Finance. With VAT at 22 percent, this savings remained a major incentive
for the three banks to persevere with the procurement process.
19. By the time Bank Pomorski was ready in mid-1996 to award a contract for
automation, it was forced to drop its automation investment plans because of its
Government-mandated consolidation with another commercial bank (PKO-SA). The
remaining two banks (Zachodni and Gdanski) continued their automation procurement
process in close consultation with the Bank and, in late 1996, NBP formally requested
financing of up to US$56.6 million from IEDP to finance their respective automation
systems. NBP also discussed the possibility of reallocating an additional US$90 million
in uncommitted IEDP funds to finance automation investments in another bank, PKO-
BP, the specialized savings bank. However, after a detailed review, the Bank concluded
that the PKO-BP's IT investment proposal was not sufficiently well prepared to be
considered for financing out of the IEDP loan, mainly because this very large automation
investment was not linked to a clear restructuring and business development strategy for
PKO-BP.
20. When, in June 1997, the Board approved the restructuring of the project to finance
large scale automation investments, procurement for both Bank Gdanski (BG) and Bank
Zachodni (BZ) was well advanced. However, BG decided that the automation systems
proposed in the original tender were no longer suitable since its functional requirements
had changed significantly, in part because of changes in its business objectives as a result
of its partial takeover by another bank. It therefore canceled the first tender-in
agreement with the Bank-and requested new bids from all participants in the original
first stage tender. In the end, however, after analyzing the revised first stage bids, BG
concluded that it was highly unlikely that any of the first stage bidders would be able to
adequately meet its needs. Although it had the option of further refining its IT
specifications, BG felt that even if it did so, it was unlikely to receive proposals that it
could live with. BG therefore opted to cancel the entire procurement, arguing that it was
too risky to invest more time in following the Bank's procurement process. BZ also ran
into problems. It was unable to reach an internal management decision on the proposed
award for close to a year and a half. This delay and the fact that changes in automation
requirements were improperly introduced into the bid evaluation process made it



8
impossible for the Bank to approve any award. In view of this, BZ ultimately decided to
cancel the tender and proceed on its own and/or in conjunction with its future private
partner. In short, despite the tremendous effort which both banks had made in preparing
automation investments for Bank financing, neither bank was able to complete the
procurement process and both subsequently canceled their sub-loans with NBP.
21.  Once the tenders and sub-loans were canceled, NBP in turn requested cancellation
of the uncommitted balances in the loan. The final US$20.0 million from the loan was
canceled effective June 3, 1998, shortly after BZ canceled its sub-loan agreement with
NBP.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
22. The Government's Economic Transformation Program had a major impact on
utilization of the IEDP credit line. On the one hand, the reforms created conditions
which encouraged the start-up of new private companies and put pressure on public
companies to move to new markets and improve quality and productivity. Many, if not
most, of the subprojects that were financed out of the credit line would not have
materialized without these reforms. On the other hand, the reforms were initially very
destabilizing for industry, thus discouraging new investment and borrowing. This
situation, coupled with high interest rates, and the very limited interest of the banks in
making medium term loans, sharply limited demand for the line of credit.
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
23.  Credit line utilization was also affected by factors specific to the enterprises
themselves as well as to the participating banks. With respect to private enterprises, there
was no shortage of good investment projects that could have been financed from the
credit line.  However, companies found it difficult to meet the tough collateral
requirements of the banks, in part because property rights were unclear and the legal
framework was inadequate to provide sufficient security to lenders. Companies often had
no established relationships with commercial banks and many were reluctant to borrow,
especially in foreign exchange, given the uncertain macroeconomic environment and
uncertainty over the future exchange rate of the zloty. Public sector industrial enterprises
also faced multiple uncertainties as markets for their traditional products disappeared and
they found themselves facing serious financial problems. Faced with these difficulties,
many firms were reluctant to borrow (assuming they remained creditworthy), even
though investmnents were needed to reorient production and improve productivity.
24. At the same time, participating banks also faced considerable uncertainty as the
whole structure of the financial system was in flux, many were newly established
offshoots of the old central bank, and the banks themselves were increasingly in financial
distress as their traditional customers got into financial trouble. In these circumstances, it
was difficult to find banks who were willing to actively promote the credit line. Of the
seven participating banks, only five banks (BGZ--the agriculture bank, Bank Handlowy,
Export Development Bank-BRE, Bank Przemyslowo-Handlowy (BPH) of Krakow, and
Bank Slaski of Katowice) actually approved sub-loans, and of the 23 subloans that were
approved, the bulk were approved by just two banks, namely BGZ (eleven loans) and



9
BPH (seven loans). The two other participating banks, Wielkopolski Bank Kredytowy
(WBK of Poznan) and Bank Gdanski, did not make any subloans at all.
D.  Project Sustainability
25.  In the case of a credit line, project sustainability can be assessed both in terms of
the development of the on-lending institutions involved and in terms of the sustainability
of the subprojects financed. All of the subprojects financed under the IEDP (see Table
7B for the list of projects) were successfully completed. However, a number of the
companies which borrowed from IEDP ran into difficulties and were subsequently
restructured. With respect to banking system reform, IEDP was intended to provide only
limited technical assistance at the very beginning of the banking sector reforms, which it
did. Since then, there has been significant progress in restructuring and developing
Poland's banking system and the entire financial sector. Six of the seven participating
banks have been privatized, and the seventh (BGZ), the agriculture development bank, is
undergoing further restructuring with the goal of privatizing the bank starting in the year
2000.
E.  Bank Performance
26.  The Bank carried out project identification, preparation and the initial appraisal in
a comprehensive and satisfactory manner.  The reappraisal was also technically
satisfactory, but under the pressure to start lending to Poland to support the Economic
Transformation Program, the reappraisal had to be carried out quickly, at the very
beginning of the transformation, when it was far too early to be able to assess the impact
of the market reforms and abrupt changes in the macroeconomic environment on industry
demand for credit and the resource needs of the banking system. Based on what was
known at the time, the Government and the Bank assumed that demand would be
sufficient. However, this assumption proved incorrect.
27.   Preparation and Appraisal. Since this was the first operation in the industrial
sector and there was no prior experience with lending to Poland, Bank staff undertook a
detailed assessment of both the industrial sector and potential subprojects, as well as
looking in some depth at the banking system and potential intermediaries for the credit
line. Over 50 potential subprojects were reviewed, of which nine were pre-selected for
financing out of the credit. Since these nine projects were expected to utilize about 80
percent of the line of credit, neither the Bank nor the Government expected major
difficulties in utilizing the loan or in identifying new investments for financing for the
remaining 20 percent of the loan. By designing the loan in this way, the Bank expected
to minimize the amount of new project identification and preparation work that
participating banks would need to carry out, keeping in mind their very limited
experience with Bank project preparation, appraisal and implementation requirements.
By pre-approving subprojects which would utilize a substantial portion of the loan, the
Bank also felt it had a better chance of ensuring that loan funds would go to companies
which were financially sound and had reasonable chances of rapidly increasing export
earnings, which at the time was the main objective of the project.
28. Following appraisal, the project was put on hold, mainly because the
macroeconomic policy conditions required for Bank lending to Poland had not yet been



10
met. This situation changed during 1989 as Poland's new post-communist Government
began to put in place a new program of adjustrnent and stabilization and moved ahead
rapidly with major reforms needed to establish a market economy. The project was
therefore revived and became part of the Bank's initial phase of major financial and
technical support for the Economic Transformation Program.
29. Reappraisal. Reappraisal of the project was carried out during the first two weeks
of September 1989. Since the Bank wanted to move quickly to demonstrate strong
international support for the ETP, the reappraisal was kept as short as possible, focusing
on the minimum needed to update the draft appraisal report, including a review of the
pre-appraised subprojects, an assessment of financial intermediaries, and a review of the
technical assistance component. The mission found that three of the original pre-
identified investments were being financed from other sources, as the companies had
been unable to wait while loan processing was put on hold. The remaining six
subprojects were confirmed and one new subproject was added, leaving a total of 7 pre-
approved subprojects which were expected to utilize almost 60 percent of the credit line.
Given the time pressure, the Bank opted not to wait for additional subprojects to be
appraised, even though this meant placing a higher burden on the banking system, which
had no prior experience in preparing subprojects which would meet the Bank's
procedural requirements. The size of the credit component was therefore kept the same
(US$245 million) and processing of the loan was accelerated.
30.  IEDP, like other credit line projects in Poland, was appraised as a standard line of
credit using an apex institution for on-lending to a second tier of participating banks.
Subproject appraisal requirements, participating bank requirements and other
implementation arrangements were based on the Bank's long experience supporting
development financing  institutions around  the world.   These  implementation
arrangements were transplanted largely without change into the rapidly changing Polish
environment. Although there was some concern at appraisal that credit line utilization
could be slowed by the uncertain macroeconomic environment in the early part of the
transition period, this risk was thought to be manageable, especially given the large
amount of investments that had already been identified. Similarly, the appraisal also
noted the possibility that implementation would be slowed by the ongoing reorganization
of the banking sector. This was also considered to be manageable given the technical
assistance to be provided under the loan and the expectation that the apex bank, with help
from Bank staff, would work closely with the participating banks to provide needed
support.
31. At the start of Poland's market reforms, the Bank was only just starting to
understand the complexities and risks of the micro and macro environment for credit in a
country undergoing such a massive and rapid transition. Moreover, the financial,
business and institutional environment was constantly evolving, which made it even more
difficult to assess the supply and demand for credit and the strengths and weaknesses of
the institutional arrangements for delivering credit to industrial enterprises.  As a
consequence, it was not possible for the Bank nor the Government to have enough
information to accurately forecast demand for the line of credit at the time of the
reappraisal.  In order to get resources into the sector quickly and provide strong
international support to the overall transformation program, the Bank opted to go ahead
with the project on the assumption that substantial demand in the form of pre-appraised



11
subprojects had already been demonstrated and that sufficient demand for the rest of the
credit line would materialize. Unfortunately, this turned out not to be the case. With the
benefit of hindsight, given these limitations, it might have been preferable to have started
with a smaller line of credit to test and perfect the mechanism and system for credit
delivery and establish a more solid basis for assessing real demand. If this approach
proved successful, and there was a demonstrated demand for additional resources, we
could then have provided additional funds quickly. This might also have allowed for the
Bank to acquire a better understanding of industry and banking sector resource
requirements in light of the changes taking place in the economy, as well as better
sequencing with support for policy changes and institutional strengthening of the banking
and financial sector, as provided under the Financial Institutions Development Project
(FIDL) and the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL). In this
context, the reappraisal was unsatisfactory.
32. Supervision. IEDP was initially managed by Washington-based staff with support
from the Resident Mission. However, from late 1992 through 1995, a full time task
manager was based in Warsaw with responsibility for all financial sector and credit line
operations, including IEDP. After 1995, supervision continued to be carried out at the
Resident Mission, but was less intensive, since it was limited to monitoring preparation
of automation projects by the three Banks proposed for financing under IEDP. Overall
supervision performance was satisfactory.
33. During the first few years of project implementation, the Bank made a concerted
effort to make the line of credit more attractive to both the banks and to potential sub-
borrowers. However, these efforts had only a limited impact. In fact, because the
banking system remained highly liquid, including resources in foreign exchange, and did
not need the resources from the line of credit, and since enterprises were reluctant to
borrow in foreign exchange, there was probably little more that could have been done to
improve credit line use. Since the credit line could not be fully utilized for its original
purpose, the Bank agreed to reallocate funds to finance investments in banking
automation. While this was a good idea in principle, in practice it turned out to be
equally difficult to implement. One of the principal underlying problems was that the
banking environment was constantly changing. As a result the commercial banks found
themselves going through major changes in their organizational and ownership structure,
which in turn resulted in numerous changes in their policies and business objectives. In
this environment the banks found it difficult to reach an internal consensus on the right
kind of integrated automation system for their rapidly evolving needs. The banks also
found it difficult to apply the Bank's procurement rules in a situation where automation
technology was constantly being adapted and updated.
34. Although the decision to expand the technical assistance component and use a
substantial portion of the credit line to finance banking automation needs which could not
be financed under the FIDL was reasonable and appeared to meet a real need, in fact the
original intention of the FIDL was to finance only basic automation equipment and not
complex integrated systems. Based on what we now know about the difficulty of
applying essentially static Bank procurement procedures in a situation where the
borrower needs to be able to work flexibly with the automation equipment supplier to
adapt quickly to changing technology and changes in a bank's business objectives, it
would have been preferable to have canceled the unutilized portion of the credit line and



12
to have considered separately whether additional lending for automation was feasible and
needed. Once having agreed to the use of the IEDP loan to help finance automation,
however, the formal reallocation should have been done much earlier and the use of the
funds for automation should have been tied to a specific timetable for completing the
procurement and making use of the proceeds of the loan.
F.  Borrower's Performance
35. The Borrower's performance was satisfactory during the identification, preparation
and implementation of the project. NBP put in place a solid implementation unit which
was well-managed and acquired considerable experience in applying Bank policies,
including procedures related to procurement and subproject appraisal. Overall, the
working relationship with Bank staff was excellent. At this early stage of Poland's
transition, there was no alternative to selecting NBP as the apex institution for the line of
credit. However, the selection of NBP did have one unanticipated consequence, which
may have reduced the interest of participating banks in using the credit line. Since these
banks had only recently been freed of direct central bank control, there was some
reluctance to work with their previous managing authority as the apex institution, which
meant that NBP would continue to look over their shoulders and give orders in respect to
implementation of the loan.
G.  Assessment of Outcome
36. IEDP was originally designed before the launching of Poland's ETP in late 1989,
when the Polish economy was subject to foreign exchange shortages, rationing and
controls. By the time the loan was approved, the economic situation in Poland had begun
to change radically. The availability of financing, including foreign exchange at a lower
overall cost than the Bank's loan, improved quickly. Furthermore, interest in the credit
line was dampened by the reluctance of Polish banks to do term lending, the difficulties
potential borrowers faced in meeting high collateral requirements, and the lack of
experience of enterprises in meeting project appraisal and procurement requirements. All
of these factors directly affected the level of demand for the credit line and made the
design of the project less relevant.
37. Given the low utilization of the credit line, the project provided only a limited
amount of financing for industrial modernization and restructuring and did not achieve its
principal goal of expanding export earnings. In this context, it is rated as unsatisfactory.
The project also did not achieve the additional objective, formally added in mid- 1997, of
financing large banking automation investments, since the two banks involved did not
complete the procurement and this financing had to be canceled. Nevertheless, despite
these unsatisfactory results in terms of financing significant investment in industry and in
the banking system, the project provided substantial technical assistance to industry and
to the banks, especially in respect to introducing project appraisal techniques, developing
industrial restructuring strategies and beginning the process of developing modern
banking services. While it is impossible to measure the impact of this transfer of
knowledge, it was significant and remains an important positive outcome of the loan.



13
H. Recommendations for Future Operations
38. Poland's financial sector has developed significantly in the years since IEDP was
approved, both in terms of the level and variety of banking services provided and in terms
of the system's ability to mobilize resources. Total assets of the banking system as a
proportion of GDP are still only a fraction of those in more advanced economies, but
good economic growth, private pension fund development and continued strong interest
of foreign investors in the sector, all point to continued dynamic growth. As a
consequence, Bank lending for financial services development is no longer envisaged,
except for possible Bank assistance to small and medium enterprises, including
microcredit schemes as part of proposed support for rural development. Any additional
assistance in the financial sector would have to be targeted to specific issues, such as
capital market development or non-banking financial institutions.
I.   Key Lessons Learned
39. As a result of the limited success which the Bank had in implementing the IEDP
and other credit line projects in Poland, several lessons emerge:
a) First, during a period of very intense, in-depth economic restructuring, where
significant economic distortions and uncertainties exist, it is very difficult to accurately
assess sector financing needs and the demand for credit. In such circumstances,
especially when Bank experience with the country, the financial sector and potential
borrowers is limited, as was the case in Poland, it would be better to start with a smaller
line of credit to test and perfect the mechanism and system for credit delivery and
establish a more solid basis for assessing real demand. Then, if this pilot approach
proves successful, and there is a demonstrated demand for additional resources, we
should be prepared to provide additional funds quickly.
b) Second, although lending through an apex institution provides flexibility in the
timing of selecting and qualifying participating banks-which is particularly important
when the banks are being restructured and undergoing substantial institutional changes-
the added layer does increase the cost of resources to the participating banks and to the
final borrower, and this can effect demand for the line of credit. Therefore, prior to
making a decision on an apex institution, one should look carefully at the possibility of
lending directly to creditworthy commercial banks. Keeping the sub-loan approval
process as simple as possible is also an important factor in helping to lower the cost of
credit.
c) Third, when working with new borrowers and intermediaries, especially in a
transition economy where practical experience with modem credit delivery and appraisal
techniques is very limited, one should simplify subproject appraisal requirements as
much as possible and ensure that sufficient hands-on technical support is readily available
to assist enterprises and participating banks in putting together subproject proposals.
d)  Fourth, Bank procurement rules, which require the borrower to tender for a
very specific package of equipment, software and services, are not well-suited to the
purchase of banking automation systems, since the rules make it difficult for the borrower
to adjust to rapidly changing banking needs and rapidly changing technology, which



14
cannot always be determined in advance. Banking automation investments seem to be
more suited to the procurement practices followed by the private sector, which permits
strategic alliances between purchaser and supplier to allow for a rapid response to
changing needs and access to state-of-the-art technical solutions before they are released.
Unless more flexibility on procurement can be introduced, it would be better to avoid
lending for this kind of automation investment.
J.   Conclusion
40. IEDP was approved in early 1990 as one of the first two loans to Poland. At this
early stage in the implementation of Poland's Economic Transformation Program, the
Bank's understanding of the impact of the economic reforms on industry credit needs and
the resource requirements of the banking sector was necessarily limited. It was therefore
difficult to anticipate and adequately assess the implementation risks which ultimately
impeded full use of the line of credit. Both the borrower and the Bank worked hard to
improve prospects for using the loan, but were unable to overcome the lack of demand
from both industry and the banking sector. Nevertheless, even though the loan fell short
of achieving its principal objective, the industrial subprojects that were financed were
successfully carried out and the loan's technical assistance component provided
important assistance in helping develop Poland's industrial restructuring and privatization
initiatives.



15
Part HI. Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7A: Studies Included in Project
Table 7B: Subprojects Financed
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



16
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       p_ Ne _luible
Macro Policies                      2               2                21
Sector Policies                    E                a                                 El
Financial Objectives                2              I3               E                 E
Institutional Development           2              I3               [i                [
Physical Objectives                E               E                El
Poverty Reduction                   E              E                                  El
Gender Issues                      12              II               [1
Other Social Objectives             a              E                E3
Enviromnental Objectives            E              El               El
Public Sector Management           I               E                 21
Private Sector Development          a                               El                El
Other (specify)                    El              E                E                 E
B. Project Sustainability            Likely                   Unlikely                  Uncertain
(/)                      (V')                      (V)
Highly
C. Bank Performance                 Satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
(/)                     ('I)                      ($)
Identification                      E                                                 El
Preparation Assistance               El                                                1
Appraisal                           E                       E                         Ig
Supervision                         21                      Ig                        El



17
continued
D. Borrower Performance            Satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
Preparation                        i                       IZ                         a
Implementation                     E                       E:
Covenant Compliance                E                                                 iii
Operation (if applicable)                                  E a 
Highly                                            Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome           Satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
(E)            (El)             (i)               ()
Ol    al                                         Ea



18
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan/credit title        Purpose           Year of approval           Status
1. US$280.0 million   Support enterprise            1990          Policy component fully
Privatization and     privatization program,                      disbursed. Credit
Restructuring Loan   including fast                               component used only
disbursing policy                           marginally (US$47
component (US$75                            million was canceled)
million); US$65 million                     and was restructured to
technical assistance                        help finance initial
component; line of                          start-up management
credit (US$140 million)                     fees of the Mass
to finance restructuring                    Privatization Program
and pre-privatization                       (MPP) and to finance
investments.                                TA for the Coal
Restructuring Program.
TA component is
ongoing and
implementation is
satisfactory. The
Closing Date was
extended to December
31, 1999.
2. US$200.0 million   Fast disbursing policy        1991          Loan closed as of
Financial Institutions    component to support                    December 31, 1998.
Development Project    banking sector reform
(US$150 million); and
technical assistance
(US$50 million) to
support operational and
management
improvements in state-
owned commercial
banks being privatized.
3. US$450 million     Policy-based loan to          1993          Completed. First and
Enterprise and        support Government's                        Second tranches fully
Financial Sector      Enterprise and Bank                         disbursed. Third
Adjustment Loan       Restructuring and                           Tranche canceled at the
(EFSAL)               Privatization Program                       Government's request.



19
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned             Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                        October 23, 1987
Preparation
Appraisal                                   November 23, 1987    November 1987
Post-Appraisal                                                    September 1989
Negotiations                                April 5, 1988         November 4, 1989
Board Presentation                          May 12, 1988          February 6, 1990
Signing                                                           February 22, 1990
Effectiveness                                                     May 8, 1990
Midterm review (if applicable)              n.a.                  n.a.
Project Completion                          December 31, 1995    June 1998
Loan Closing                                June 30, 1996         June 30, 2000
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97
Appraisal estimate   41.0   100.0  174.0  226.0  251.0  260.0  260.0  260.0
Actual               10.1   20.01   35.57   46.61   63.58   72.32   75.87   75.87
Actual as % of estimate                                            29.1   29.1
Date of final                                                       May 1, 1996
disbursement
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
(No implementation indicators were included in the Appraisal Report)
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(No implementation indicators were included in the Appraisal Report)



20
Table 7A: Studies Included in Projece
Study                 Purpose as defied at         Status        Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1.   Steel Sector    To carry out a comprehensive       Completed      Provided
technical, financial and economic                 Government with
analysis of the steel industry to                important early
determine its strengths and                      information on the
weaknesses, assess domestic market               steel sector and
demand and potential, and develop                options for
options for restructuring, including             restructuring.
preparation of an action plan.                   Impact limited as
Government
delayed action on
restructuring.
2.   Gdansk          To assess the technical capacity and   Completed  Provided useful
Shipyard       financial health of the shipyard,                 inputs for
review market trends in shipbuilding              Government review
and prepare a strategy for                       of Gdansk
privatization                                    restructuring, but
impact limited as
Government
delayed action on
restructuring.
3.   Paper Industry   To assess sector performance and   Completed     Provided useful
potential and prepare a privatization             inputs for
strategy for 7 enterprises                       Govermnent review
of sector, but impact
limited by slow
progress on
privatization.
4.   Mass             Series of studies to test feasibility of   Completed  Provided key advice
Privatization  proposed mass privatization                       and support to
Program        program, develop mechanism for                    Ministry of
implementing program, and assess                 Privatization on
companies to be included                          establishment and
implementation of
Mass Privatization
Program.
5.   Szczecin        To assess restructuring requirements   Completed  Provide advice and
Shipyard       and options for the Szczecin                      support to the
Shipyard                                         Ministry of
Privatization on
restructuring
options. Shipyard
was restructured
successfully.
2 The Appraisal Report includes a preliminary list of studies to be carried out under the project, including
and Industrial Components Study in the electro-engineering sector, a Packaging Industry Study, and a
Study of the Steel Sector. Of these three proposed studies, only the Steel Study was carried out.
Additional study needs in the area of industrial restructuring and privatization were identified during
implementation of the project, as shown in Table 7.



21
Table 7B: Subprojects Financed
FINANCING
AGREEMENT             AMOUNT
NO           BORROWING ENTERPRISE                    DATE OF             DISBURSED
SIGNING                US$
1.    ZWCh WISTOM - Tomasz6w                           26.09.90            12,307,272.58
Chemical Fiber Works
2.    MAREX - Walbrzych                                06.12.90                64,917.17
Decorative ceramic manufacturing
3.    TEXO S.A. - Lodi                                 10.12.90             5,078,694.53
Textile production
4.    Z.A. PULAWY S.A. - Pulawy                        03.01.91            22,221,295.71
Nitrogen works
5.    F.O. RAFAMET S.A. - Kuznia Racib.                22.03.91             5,181,185.54
Machine tools factory
6.    DREWMAX-Krasnobr6d                               05.07.91               124,294.30
Woodworks
7.    KHS "KROSNO" S.A. - Krosno                       05.08.91             1,381,248.95
Glass works
8.    PONAR AVIA-Warszawa                              12.08.91             4,039,754.85
Machine tool industry
9.    FOLEX - Krak6w                                   16.08.91               163,401.17
Packing
10.   POL-AM-PACK - Brzesko                            11.12.91             1,231,271.14
Packing corporation
11    DTW ELEKTRONIKA-Krak6w                           08.04.92                53,307.79
Electronic industry
12.   EWA SIEBIATA - Tomasz6w Maz.                     24.04.92              278,114.38
Knitted products
13.   EXTRANS-Sanok                                    06.07.92              986,910.80
Charcoal briquette manufacturing
14.   ASSO-Ostr6w Wielkopolski                         30.07.92              328,847.20
Oil filters production
15.   GALERIA NR 44-Gdafisk                            11.12.92             1,093,917.78
Jewerly manufacturing
16.   Glazed Tile Plant - Tuba,dzin                    07.09.92             2,326,531.29
Glazed tile production
17.   KZA Zielonka                                     18.12.92              368,994.36
FUG railway support equipment
18.   GEORYT - Krak6w                                  25.02.93             2,061,458.91
Mining equipment factory
19.   POLIMER - Slupno k/Radzymina                     14.07.93              321,767.80
Plastic bag production
20.   Remontowa Stocznia Rzeczna - Wroclaw             07.01.94                    0.00
River barge and ship repair and production
21.   MORSTONE - Strzegom                              14.02.94             3,544,226.87
Granite quarry
22.   E. RYCHLIK - Smolina                             14.12.94             1,387,738.81
Goose and broiler farming and processing
23.   T. MAJ - Mysiadlo                                25.01.95             2,238,245.08
I _                                                Total      J      66,783,397.01



22
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal   (US$                   Actual/latest estimates
estimate   million)                   (US$ million)
Item                   Local costs  Foreign    Total      Local  Foreign  Total
costs                costs   costs
1. Sevenpre-identified    109.0    151.0    260.0         n.a.   34.5    34.5
investments
2. Other investments       64.0    110.0      174.0       n.a.   32.4    32.4
3. TechnicalAssistance      6.0      15.0      21.0       n.a.    9.0      9.0
Total                     179.0    276.0      455.0        n.a   75.9    75.9
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate          Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                 (US$ million)
Item                       Local  Foreign   Total         Local  Foreign  Total
costs   costs                 costs   costs
IBRD/IDA                           260.0   260.0           n.a.   75.9    75.9
Commercial banks           69.0      1.0    70.0          n.a.    n.a.    n.a.
Enterprise own funds      110.0    15.0   125.0           n.a.    n.a.     n.a.
Total                     179.0   276.0   455.0            n.a.    n.a.    n.a.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
(not applicable)



23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
POLAND
PL-PA-8569 - IND. EXPORT DEVT.
Covenant Present  Original    Revised          Description of Covenant          Comments
Agreement   Section      Type    Status  Fulfillment Fulfillment
Date       Date
LOAN       3.01 (a) and  5       C                              NBP shall conduct its operations and
3.02 (a)                                             coordinate and monitor the execution of
the project in accordance with policies and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank
(recorded in the Minutes of Negotiations
as modified January 1990)
3.02 (b) (i)   5      C                              NBP shall maintain the Project Appraisal
and Implementation Division (PAID) with
staff, facilities, and other resources and
terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank.
4.01 (b) (i)   I      C       06/30/93               NBP's project accounts are to be audited
on an annual basis and the audit report is
to be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the end of each year.
4.01 (b) (i)   I      C       06/30/93               The special account is to be audited on an
annual basis as part of the audit of NBP's
project accounts.
4.01 9 (c)    I       C       06/30/93               The statements of expenditures are to be
audited on an annual basis as part of the
audit of (NBP's) project accounts and the
audit report is to contain a separate
opinion on these statements.
4.01 (b) (i)   I      C                              NBP shall submit annual and semi annual  -
progress reports to the Bank in accordance
with the Minutes of Negotiations as
revised January 1990.
4.02        1         C                              NBP shall utilize debt service payments
from participating banks to the extent they
are not required to service the Bank loan
for financing investments to expand
efficient industrial production.
Schedule 6   1        C                              Participating banks shall, within one year
B (1) (c)                                            of signing a Subsidiary Financing
Agreement formulate and subsequently
implement action plans for strengthening
their organization, operations, and
financial structure.
Schedule 6   1        C       06/30/93               Participating banks shall submit to the
B (2) (c)                                            Bank within six months of the end of each
year audit reports on their financial
statements.
Covenant types:                                                                     Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                           6. = Environmental covenants         C  = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from  7. = Involuntary resettlement   CD = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                8. = Indigenous people               CP = complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds      9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                        10. = Project implementation not covered
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing  by categories 1-9
agency



24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title        Describe and comment on lack of compliance
(not applicable)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of project cycle            Weeks         US$
Preparation to Appraisal                       159.3         367.1
Appraisal                                      47.1           120.5
Negotiations through Board approval             93.8         263.4
Supervision                                   155.1          521.8
Completion                                      5.8            19.7
Total                                   461.1         1,292.5



25
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Perfonnance Rating       Typesof
Stage of project cycle  Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.         Developm. Problems3
Year   Persons Field*                        Status      objectives
Through Appraisal
Identification            3/8       6       26       I, E, PS,C
Preparation               5/8        13      14      1, E, F, 0,C
9/8       12      21      I, E, F, 0, L,C
Preappraisal              11/87     6        10      I, E, F, 0, C
Appraisal through Board
approval
Appraisal                 11/87     8        18      I, E, F, 0, C, PS
Subproject follow up      01/88     1       4        I
Post-appraisal            7/88      5        13      1, F, E, PS
5/89      2       5       E, F
9/89      10      14      I, E, F, O, L, C
1/90     4        14      I, E, F, 0
Supervision
7/90      3       7       I, F, E
10/90    6        15      E, F, 1, L, 0    2            1
1/91     2        1       0,1
7/91      4               F, E, P, C       2             1
4/92      2               E, C             2             1
Update                 6/93                                        3            3
Update                 3/94                                        3            3
4/94      2               E, I
Update                 6/94                                        U            U
8/94      4               E,F, I
Update                 5/95                                        U            U
Update                 6/96                                        S            U             PD, BC
Update                  11/96                                      S            U
Update                 6/97                       0                S            S
Update                 6/98                       0                U            U             BS, DM
Completion
Total
1 - Key to Specialized staff skills:     2 - Key to Performance Ratings:   3 - Key to Types of Problems:
F Finance    I Industry                  1, HS  Highly satisfactory   PD Project Design
E Economist  PS Privatization/Private    2, S   Satisfactory          BC Borrower Commitment
P Procurement      Sector                3, U   Unsatisfactory        BS Bank restructuring
O Operations  L Legal                    4, HU  Highly unsatisfactory  DM Slow decision-making
C Consultant
* Duration of mission
From the beginning of 1993 the project was monitored and supervised from the field; therefore no formal supervision missions were
reported.



26
Appendix
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
(prepued by the National Bank of Poland)
1. ]Introduction
1.1  In 1986, after Poland's admission to the IMF and the World Bank (WB), the
Government of Poland requested assistance from the WB to support the objectives of the
Polish economic reform prograrn wich aimed at improving the foreigu trade balance of the
country. The Industrial xport Development Project (DP) was idmtified as a result of the
World Bank's works in the industrial sector which tookt place in yean 1987-189. The project
was prepared jointly with different institutions in Poland.
22 imvestment sub-projects were selected for financing under the IEDP.
1.2   The National Bank of Poland (NBP) as a borrower was responsible for an overall
coordination of the project. The proceeds of the loan were channelled through the NBP to 5
participating banks.
1.3   The loan was signed in February 1990, when the economic cbanges in Poland were
introduced. This had a significant influen=c on further implementafion of the project.
2.    Objectives of the project
2.1  IEDP had four principal objectives: (i) improving the convertible cmuency tade balance
of Poland by increasing the volume, quality and value added of industzial exports to convertible
currency markets; (ii) improving the bankdng systen, in particular by providing training in
modem banldng practices; (iii) preparing restturig programs and identiung restructuring
needs m industry, and (iv) supporting the development of the private sector. In 1994, after the
loan for Agro-industrial Export Development Project (AEDP) had been closed, the subprojects
in the agroindustzial sector were also eligible. In June 1997, the Board of the Bank agreed to
expand the banking strengthening component to include financng of large automation
investments by two banks, namely Bank Gdazsld and Bank Zachodni.



27
2.2 The project was designed to be implemented over a 6-year period and consisted of two
componAs:
(i) a credit componen - a US$245 million line of crei to finance export oiented investments
in state-owned and private industial enterprises; and
(ii) a technical assistance component - US$15 milion to stngthen the banlhng system,
includmn improving bank supevision, carny out studies for restructuring priatizalion of ailing
entprises, and support measures to stmulate private sector development.
3.    Course of the project implementation
3.1    The Loan Agreement became efctive in May 1990, after signing two Subsidiary
Financig Agreements wihi two partcipatig banks, wit other 5 banks in August and
September 1990. Only two, from the preselected subprojects, were finaced in 1990. Either
the banks or the enterprises were not prepared to lend and to borrow fincial means.
3.2 In the year 1991, the interest in taking credits from the proceeds of tbe loan increased,
although the beneficiaries of the credits were small private enterprises. That year 7 subloans
were granted by the N3P, 7 subloans in 1992, 2 subloans in 1993, 2 subloans in 1994 and only
1 subloan in 1995.
3.3   Although 7 banks were qualified as participating bank, during the period of
implementation only 5 banks applied for the finds of the IEDP.
3.4   The World Bank and the NBP analyzed all the events which might have had impact on
the uilization of the loan. Based on the discussion with the Polish partners, the WB: (i)
abandoned the strict requirement of export orientation, (ii) increased the ceiling of IS
procurement from US$200,000 to US$500,000, (iii) increased the ceiling of IS procurement
for private enterprises from USS200,000 to US$2,000,000, (iv) allowed to finan c permanent
working capital for commencement or expansion of operations. (v) allowed to make subloans
for purchase of equipment by operatig leasing companies, and (vi) allocated the unutilized
portion of the loan to financing automation projects extending at the same time the loan
closing date to June 30, 2000.



28
(d) the procurenent procedure, especially bidding requiments, ve  after the
modification, had reduced number of potenail private beneficiaries,
(e) high foreig exchange nsk, particularly for the producers for domestic market,
(f) a lack of possibility to finance second-hand equipment as well as cvil and
construction works,
5.2  Implementation of the automation program encountered serious obstacles in devisg
the banks' strategies and prepaTing the bidding documents as wel as objective appraisal of the
bids.
6.    Bank performance
6.1   The NBP should highlight the importance of efficiency of a continuous dialogue
between the WB and the Polish counterpart improving loan utilization and project
implementation. The Bank demonstrated a great flexibility in adapting the Loan Agreement's
provisions to the changed conditions of the project's implementation. This position restlted in
the modifications to the Loan Agreement, although it seems today that these changes were
introduced too late.
6.2   The relationship between the WB and the NBP was good throughout the preparation
and implementation of the project,
6.3   Polish institutions received a valuable assistance from the WB staff: its active
participation in prepartion and evaluation of the investment subprojects as well as advice and
directions. A good example of the WB's help were several workshops on financial analyses
provided for the participating banks and the NBP's staff
6.4  In some cases the WB and the NBP had different views, undoubtedly on the question
of hiring by the NBP of external consultants to assist the banks in identification, preparation
and evaluation of the subprojects. The NBP was always ready to help the banks in tins way,
but the decision was dependent on the demand for credits from the banks, which,
unfortmately, was still decreasing.



29
3.5 The above mentioned changes to the Loan Agreement did not result in increased
tiizton of the credit line. Additonally, some problems with purchases within the automation
program arose- Therefore, in June 1998 the NBP requested and the WB agreed to cancel
slightly over USS184 ilion equivalent from the origial loan amount. Enally, the loan was
dlosed on June 3, 1998, about two years prior to the etended closiag date. The whole unpaid
principal was prepaid by the NBP in Juy 1998.
4.    Achievement of objectives
4.1   Under the credit component, the objectives were not achieved. The loan fimds were not
used for financing of preselected subsectors and subprojects or for financing of export-oriented
subprojects. In the year 1990, when the economic reform was introduced, the lack of
convertible acrencies discontinued to be the main obstacle in the implementation of
investmnts and the means of the E}DP were not the only available source of hard currency in
Poland.
4.2   Under the technical assistance component, the assumptions were partialy implemented.
The majonty of the funds were utilized to fimmce as,istance during the privatization process.
However, the participating banks did not use any of these. One of the reasons thereof was
availability of cheaper fnds form various grants.
S.    Major factors affecting the project
5.1   The following factors had negative impact on the implementation of the credit
component of the project, however, they were of a different nature in different periods.
(a) financial situation of several preselected state companies deteriorated. Therefore,
they did not meet the financial criteria for the subprojects,
(b) a substantial part of potential beneficiaries were not able to meet collateral
requirements of the participating banks,
(c) companies implementing non-export-oriened subprojects were not eligible for
flnancin&



30
I. Key lessons learned
An overall economic situadon in the peiod of 1990-1994 was not condadv to investing. Due
to a high iaon long-term lending and borrowing camed too much risk both for the banks
and the enterpnse. Under these    tances  credit lines made avable to the banks by
intermedaries wer not the igt solution.
Attachment:
Information prepared on the basis of the data provided by the participating banks (November
1999) on the subprojects financed with lEDP loans



31
IDUSTRAL EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. THE COMPANIES THE INVESTMENTS OF WUCH HAVE DEWN suCCKSSIUL
IN THE MAUKT
Borrowing Entaprise: "MAItEX" - WalbrAyb
Purpose of the investment: Incasing export capacity of decortive ceramic products
The ceramic fuirnaces purchased with the World Bank loa are flly used by the company The
investment is profitable, the company repaid the credi in due time as spedcd in the
agreement (January 1998).
Borrowing Enterprise: Zakiady Azotowe Putawy SA.
Purpose of the investment: modernzation of mlamnine, caprolam  and urea production
As a result of the investment the company has increased the production of mielmine
caprolactam and urea, reduced the costs as well as has insalled ewvironmet protecion
equipment. By revenues the company ranks 62nd in the group of the gratest industial
enterprises in Poland
Borrowing Enterprise: Kroiniefslie Huty Szkka "KROSNO" SA.
Purpose of the investment: Maintaining the lead glass pipes production with the use of
electrode melting
The company, in good financial standing, is quoted on the stock exhange. A tank fire
purchased with the World Bank loan is filly used by the company.
Borrowing Enterprise: "POL-AM-PACC" - Brzaesko
Purpose of the investment: Modemization of a tin production line
The company in good financial standing vith an annmal production growth. The tin production
line is fully used by the company.
Borrowing Enterprise:"EXTRANS" - Sanok
Purpose of the investment: fine charcoal utilization - launching charcoal briquette
Charcoal briquette manufcuzig financed with the World Bank loan is a profitable activity.
The company with good financial standing.
Borrowing Enterprise: Glazed Tile Plant - Tubqdzin
Purpose of the investment: Construction and equipping of a glazed tile producion plant
A highly profitable company wih very good financial standng, among others thinks to a
glazed tile production plant financed with the World Bank loan.



32
Borrowing Enterprise: GEORYT - Krak6w
Purpose of the investment: Launching ofthe serial pRot steering production, electric and
hydraulic equipmeat production, modernization of hydraulic saering sets.
The company with good financia standing. Starting the production of the hydraulic equipment
was fianced with the World Bank loan.
Borrowing Enterprise: BRE BANK S.A.
Purpose of the investment: Bank automation
One of the major banks in Poland, quoted on the stock et:ban, wh very good financial
stading. Thanks to the purchase of equipment financed with the World Bank loan BRE Bank
S.A. was incorporated into SWIFT aystem and the main information technology system of the
bank has been started.
Borrowing Enterprise: MORSTONE - StrZegom
Purpose of the investment: LauTnching of granite deposit miing and mactadng of
granite slabs.
The company repaid the credit before due date. 4o information about present fnancial
standing of the company is available from the participating bank
Borrowing Enterprise: E. Rychlik - Brzeino
Purpose of the investment: Starting goose and broiler farming and processing
As a result of the investments the farm has developed and is operating profitably. 'Me
borrower duly repays the loan.
2, THE COMPANS WHICH AS A RESULT OF TEMWORARY DFICULTIES
CONCLUDED AN ARRANGEMEXNT WrLH A BANX
Borrowing Enterprise: "ELS" Ewa Siebiata
Purpose of the investment' Purchase of kritting machines
Due to the Russian crisis, which brought about the fail in the company exports, its financial
standing deteriorated and the company concluded an arangement wh a bankc At present the
company is profitable and duly repays its debt.
Borrowing Enterprise: "ASSO" - Ostr6w Wielkopoisld
Purpose of the investment: Purchase of a hydraulic press and a machine for filter paper
creaing
At the first stage the investment did not brng profit An arrangement with a bank was
conluded. At present the production is profitable, the credit is duly repaid.



33
3. TEE UNSUCCESSFUL  IV    E
Bonrowing Enterprise: PONAR-AVIA - War Swa
Purpose of the Investment: moderniaon end etension of a plant producing milling
machines and gears
Bonrwing Enterprise: ZWCH WETOM - Tomasz6w Mazoieckd
Purpose of the investment: modenizaion of and increase i the staple fibres production
Borrowing Enterprise: Tomasa Maj EKO-MYSLDW
Purpose of the investment: Modemization of a greenhouse for growing roses on a mineral
wool
Borrowing Enterprise: FOLEX - Krak6w
Pmrpose of the investment: production of thermforming mm packagings
Borrowing Enterprise: DREWMAX - Krasnobr6d
Purpose of the investment: purchase of wood processing equipment
Borrowing Enterprise: GALERIA 44- Gdafisk
Purpose of the investment: Purchase of amber processing equipmem and promotion of
amberjeweleryfbr exports
Borrowing Enterprise: ThXO S.A. - LkM
Purpose of the investment: Increasing the assortment of texdles for exports
Borrowing Enterprise: Remontowa Stocznia Rzeczna - Wroclaw
Purpose of the investment: Purchase of a crane for ship repairs
Bonrwing Enterprise: POLDEPR - Slupno
Purpose of the investment: Purchase ofta technological line for plastic bag production



